Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Manufacturing Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which is intended to provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facilities. This is intended to allow us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We seek to work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. We also seek to closely monitor foundry production to help ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced manufacturing processes. Because more precise manufacturing processes are expected to lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually seek to evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We typically outsource all product packaging and testing requirements for our products in production to several assembly and test subcontractors primarily located in Taiwan, Canada, Korea, Singapore and China. Governmental Regulations Import/Export, National Security and Other Regulations Related to International Operations and Ownership We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: intellectual property ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; conflict minerals; data privacy requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health and safety requirements; and consumer laws. For example, government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. A portion of the business we acquired in our Avera acquisition in fiscal 2021 requires facility security clearances under the National Industrial Security Program. The National Industrial Security Program requires that a corporation maintaining a facility security clearance be effectively insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence (FOCI). Because we were organized in Bermuda at the time of the Avera acquisition, we entered into agreements with the U.S. Department of Defense with respect to FOCI mitigation arrangements that relate to our operation of the portion of the Avera business involving facility clearances. These measures and arrangements may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the increased cost of compliance with these measures. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, our ability to operate our business may be adversely affected. Now that we are domiciled in the United States, we have requested to be released from some of the above FOCI-related obligations. We can offer no assurance that such a request will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Primarily as a result of our acquisition of Avera, we are now a party to certain contracts with the U.S. government and its subcontractors. Our contracts with government entities are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on regulatory matters. Environmental Management We are also subject to environmental rules and regulations in multiple jurisdictions, such as the European Union (EU) Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), the EU Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals SVHC Substances Directive, the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive), Chinas regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, and California Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986. 9 We believe that our products comply with the current Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and the Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals SVHC Substances Directive. In addition, each of our manufacturing subcontractors certifies to us compliance with ISO 14001:2004, the international standard related to environmental management. We are also working to establish a conflict-free supply chain, including ethical sourcing of certain minerals for our products. Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property (IP). We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements and licenses to protect our intellectual property. As of February 3, 2024, we have over 10,000 issued patents and pending patent applications in the United States and other countries, covering various aspects of our technology. The expiration of our patents ranges from 2024 to 2043, and none of the patents expiring in the near future are expected to be material to our IP portfolio as we are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. While we believe the duration of our patents generally covers the expected lives of our products, our patents may not collectively or individually cover every feature on innovation in our product. In addition, our efforts may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation or infringement. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks associated with our intellectual property. We have expended and expect to continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products or in connection with a pending or future claim or action asserted against us. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future be sued by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused other intellectual property rights, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents, trademarks, or other rights. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the risks associated with patent litigation matters. Competition The markets for our products are intensely competitive, and are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and pricing pressures. Competition has intensified as a result of the increasing demand for higher levels of performance, integration and smaller process geometries. We expect competition to further intensify as current competitors strengthen the depth and breadth of their product offerings, either through in-house development or by acquiring existing technology. In addition, some of our customers have chosen to develop certain semiconductor products internally and this trend may continue to proliferate. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on multiple factors, including, but not limited to: the performance, features, quality and price of our products; the development execution, timing and success of enhanced and new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; the emergence, rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards; market demand trends; competitive tactics; our ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity with the appropriate technological capability; and 10 the number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Companies that compete directly with our businesses include, but are not limited to, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.(AMD), Alchip Technologies (Alchip), Alphawave Semi (Alphawave), Astera Labs, Inc., Broadcom Inc.(Broadcom), Cisco Systems, Inc.(Cisco), Credo Technology Group Holding Ltd, Intel Corporation, Global Unichip Corporation (GUC), MACOM Technology Solutions Holdings, Inc., MediaTek Inc., Microchip Technology Inc., Montage Technology, Nvidia Corporation, NXP Semiconductors N.V., Phison Electronics Corporation, Qualcomm Incorporated (Qualcomm), Rambus, Inc., Realtek Semiconductor Corporation, Semtech Corporation, Silicon Motion Technology Corporation, and Socionext Inc. We expect increased competition in the future from both emerging and established companies, as well as from alliances among competitors, customers or other third parties, any of which could acquire significant market share. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of competitive risks associated with our business. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to introduce innovative new products and attempt to reduce the cost to design and manufacture our products. To accomplish this, we intend to continue to implement design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of pricing risks. Sustainability We are strengthening the company by acting on our highest priority sustainability topics. By integrating environmental and social considerations into our operations, supply chain and product design, we aim to deliver innovative semiconductor solutions that reduce impacts throughout our full value chain and meet customer expectations. Our sustainability initiatives are a corporate priority and strongly supported by our Board of Directors and leadership team. The following sections provide an overview of Human Capital and Climate Change management. More information can be found on the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) section of our website and in our annual ESG Report. Information contained on our website or in our annual ESG Report is not incorporated by reference into this or any other report we file with the SEC. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of risks and uncertainties we face related to sustainability. Human Capital We believe that engaged and supported employees lead to innovation and collaboration, enabling our company to maintain a leadership position in our industry. Our ability to attract and retain the best talent from diverse backgrounds and establish a culture that embraces integrity, respect and inclusion is key to our goal to be a great place of work. We work hard to provide opportunities to learn and grow, and create an environment where our employees feel motivated, appreciated and engaged, and have a pathway to building a long-term career at Marvell. Our Board of Directors (the Board) and its committees share oversight of our human capital management strategy. The Nominating and Governance Committee has oversight of our approach to human capital and inclusion and diversity as part of its broader focus on sustainability. Marvell annually conducts talent reviews and succession planning and the Board receives updates regularly from senior management on succession planning, management talent assessment, attrition and employee survey results. Our executive management team also reviews our human capital initiatives and our progress on such initiatives. The Audit Committee provides oversight of business risks and ethics and compliance programs, both of which have relevance for human capital- and workplace-related issues. The Executive Compensation Committee provides oversight of our overall compensation philosophy, policies and programs, and their respective alignment with our human capital strategy. The Company employed 6,577 people as of February 3, 2024. As of February 3, 2024, our global workforce was comprised of approximately: 99% full time employees and 1% part time employees. Our employees sit across three geographical regions: 51% of employees are based in the Americas, 37% are in APAC (which includes India) and 12% are in EMEA. Marvells Core Behaviors lay the foundation of our culture and are centered around four key aspects: Act with integrity and treat everyone with respect, Innovate to solve customer needs, Execute with thoroughness and rigor, and Help others achieve their objectives. 11 Our efforts to attract, develop, engage and retain employees, as well as our efforts to embed inclusion and diversity (I&D) across the Company, reinforce these behaviors. Our Core Behaviors also serve as a roadmap to help integrate employees as we grow through hiring and acquisitions. Attracting and Retaining the Best Talent We continue to invest in attracting and recruiting the best talent from across the world. By developing new sourcing strategies, we are striving for continuous flow of talent, despite the competitive market in technical talent. Our annual internship program has been a strong source of talent for our company. We also attract a diverse workforce through our university recruiting program, which helps us hire students across all degree levels from a number of universities around the world. This strategy helps provide us with a diversity of knowledge and unique approaches to solving technological challenges. We are actively focused on retaining our people through our rewards, benefits, employee engagement and development programs, as well as by fostering an inclusive culture where our employees feel appreciated and purposeful. We are committed to offering our employees a comprehensive benefits package, competitive compensation, a range of wellness offerings, flexibility in hybrid work options and a safe work environment. Our efforts at retention also include measuring and evaluating employee turnover rates to obtain insights into employee dissatisfaction and to influence our actions and improve our internal policies. Growing and Developing Our People At Marvell, we pride ourselves on a culture of continuous learning, where we invest in the professional growth and careers of our employees. We have a variety of offerings including workshops, coaching, mentoring and educational resources, to develop employees so that they have the skills they need to deliver on our current and future business priorities. Engineers and technical professionals make up the majority of our employee population. To support and develop our engineers, we offer avenues to pursue either technical or managerial career tracks at Marvell. We have also developed a suite of programs and events that provide opportunities for engineers to learn new skills, mentor colleagues and participate in activities that build our technical community around the world. Inclusion and Diversity At Marvell, we strive to create a workplace where every employee, regardless of background, feels respected and valued for who they are as an individual. This is a Core Behavior that guides our work. We also believe that a diverse, inclusive and equitable culture brings unique value to the work we do, as individuals and as a company. Our Inclusion and Diversity (I&D) approach is centered around three key aspects: Interconnected across the company: Embedding inclusivity in every function and in everything we do Full participation and responsibility: Empowering every employee to do their part toward creating a welcoming and inclusive environment Globally aligned and locally relevant: Applying our global strategic framework to specific regional and local site needs Our efforts focus on four I&D business outcomes: Activate and empower leaders Create an inclusive best place to work Cultivate a diverse workforce Lead in the marketplace and community Building a Great Place to Work The mental, emotional and physical wellbeing of our employees is a top priority for our company. To create a safe workplace where people thrive, we continue to listen to our employees and evolve with their needs. 12 We work to provide support during times of mental stress or emotional challenges through a range of mental health resources. Another way we support employees is through paid time off for wellness. For example, we provide three recharge weekends throughout the year for our global employees, that allow them to focus on self-care, minimizing the risk of burnout and boosting productivity. Across the globe, many of our offices host events dedicated to employee fitness. We continue to introduce programs to support working parents, both globally and by country. Everyone deserves a safe workplace and this includes our employees, contractors and visitors. While our workplaces are mainly office facilities, with limited safety hazards, we recognize the importance of preventing and addressing any risks that may occur. We work to prevent injury by focusing on ergonomics, internal audits and inspections, training and reporting mechanisms. Fostering Organizational and Team Health Nurturing the health of our company and teams starts with listening to and engaging with our employees globally. Recognizing that listening to our employees is critical to identifying opportunities to enhance our culture, we consistently look for new ways to solicit employees feedback. We also measure levels of engagement through our annual Voice of the Employee Survey, which helps us better understand employee needs and opportunities for improvement, and to develop action plans to address them. In addition, we measure levels of engagement in individual teams by gathering feedback from employees through a Manager 180 Survey. How we work at Marvell is central to our culture. Our hybrid model allows flexibility for employees to work from home some of the time, while maintaining Marvell offices as a destination to collaborate, socialize with their teams, and engage customers. Our goal is to foster a dynamic workplace for our employees working from homes and offices all over the world, enabled by technology and powered by our core behaviors. Climate Change We are working on climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies in our direct operations and supply chain, to improve our resilience to potential risks and align our strategies with the goals of the Paris Agreement. Management is responsible for formulating and executing our climate strategy. Marvell also runs an executive-level Sustainability Committee to provide senior leadership and strategic guidance on sustainability, as well as Sustainability Working Groups who are responsible for gathering data, setting strategy and goals, and supporting disclosure efforts on material sustainability topics. Marvells Chief Operations Officer (the COO) is the executive sponsor of the Environment Working Group and has overall responsibility at the executive level for climate strategy and related issues. The COO is responsible for assessing and leading the management of climate-related risks and opportunities, elevating stakeholder concerns and guiding the implementation of climate-related policies, programs and disclosures. The COO is also a member of the executive-level Sustainability Committee, and, in that capacity, is responsible for elevating climate topics to Marvells senior leadership and, ultimately, to the Boards Nominating and Governance and Audit Committees. The Nominating and Governance Committee has oversight of our climate strategy and sustainability matters and receives quarterly updates on our sustainability performance. Our Board of Directors receives periodic updates on our sustainability performance. Preparing for and responding to climate related risks and opportunities in our direct operations and supply chain is one of the key aspects of our business strategy. We have reported against the Task Force for Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework in our fiscal 2023 ESG Report and have conducted scenario analysis on the potential impacts of climate change to our business in alignment with the TCFD framework. We have developed a 2030 Science Based Target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across our value chain. We are working to strengthen our business by decarbonizing our operations, primarily our offices and Research & Development hubs. In addition, we are focused on developing power-efficient semiconductor solutions that help reduce energy consumption during the use phase. Across our product categories, we work collaboratively with our customers to meet their needs to optimize power performance. As a fabless semiconductor company, we also have a key opportunity to reduce our carbon impact in our supply chain. We engage our direct suppliers to reduce our own emissions and enable our customers to reduce their upstream emissions. Health and Safety We believe everyone deserves a safe workplace that supports their health and wellbeing. To help create this environment, we seek to continue to evolve our programs and resources to support employees mental and physical wellbeing. 13 The COVID-19 pandemic has placed a continued emphasis on health and safety at Marvell, and we took various steps to promote the health, safety and wellness of our employees during the crisis. While our workplaces are mainly office facilities with limited safety hazards, we recognize the importance of preventing and addressing any risks that may occur. As a company, we work to prevent injury by focusing on ergonomics, employee training, maintenance, hazard reporting mechanisms and developing emergency action plans. We encourage our employees to report unsafe conditions. 14 Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the material risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common stock. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets. A manifestation of any of the following risks and uncertainties could, in circumstances we may or may not be able to accurately predict, render us unable to conduct our business as currently planned and materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, prospects, financial condition, cash flows, liquidity and operating results. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. It is not possible to predict or identify all such risks and uncertainties; our operations could also be affected by risks or uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. Therefore, you should not consider the following discussion to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. SUMMARY OF FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT OUR FUTURE RESULTS The following summarizes the principal factors that make an investment in the Company speculative or risky. This summary should be read in conjunction with the remainder of this Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or growth prospects or cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report and those we may make from time to time. You should consider all of the risk factors described in our public filings when evaluating our business. risks related to changes in general macroeconomic conditions such as economic slowdowns, inflation, stagflation, rising interest rates, financial institution instability, and recessions or political conditions, such as the tariffs and trade restrictions with China, Russia and other foreign nations, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry and the U.S. National Science and Technology Councils designation of semiconductors as a critical and emerging technology; risks related to cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; risks related to our ability to scale our business; risks related to our debt obligations; risks related to the ability of our customers, particularly in jurisdictions such as China that may be subject to trade restrictions (including the need to obtain export licenses) to develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties; risks related to our ability to design, develop and introduce new and enhanced products, in particular in the 5G, Cloud and Artificial Intelligence (AI) markets, in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; risks related to our ability to successfully integrate and to realize anticipated benefits or synergies, on a timely basis or at all, in connection with our past, current, or any future acquisitions, divestitures, significant investments or strategic transactions; risks related to the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor and infrastructure industries; risks related to our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue including risks related to severe financial hardship or bankruptcy or other attrition of one or more of our major customers, particularly as our major customers comprise an increasing percentage of our revenue; risks related to our ability to execute on changes in strategy and realize the expected benefits from restructuring activities; risks related to our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products; risks related to the extension of lead time due to supply chain disruptions, component shortages that impact the costs and production of our products and kitting process, and constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; 15 risks related to our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially engineering, managerial, sales and marketing personnel; risks related to any current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, or contractual disputes with customers that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business; risks related to gain or loss of a design win or key customer; risks related to seasonality or volatility related to sales into the infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets; risks related to failures to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; risks related to failures to protect our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States; risks related to the potential impact of significant events or natural disasters or the effects of climate change (such as drought, flooding, wildfires, increased storm severity, sea level rise, and power outages), particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California, and where our third-party manufacturing partners or suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; risks related to our sustainability programs; cybersecurity risks; risks related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other future pandemics, on the global economy and on our customers, suppliers, employees and business; and risks related to failures of our customers to agree to pay for NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs, failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs or non-payment of previously agreed NRE costs due to us. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common stock will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common stock at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, among other factors, our revenue or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol MRVL. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. CHANGES IN PRODUCT DEMAND CAN ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS We face risks related to recessions, inflation, stagflationand other macroeconomic conditions. Customer demand for our products may be impacted by weak macroeconomic conditions, inflation, stagflation, recessionary or lower-growth environments, rising interest rates, equity market volatility or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other nations. For example, under these conditions or expectation of such conditions, our customers may cancel orders, delay purchasing decisions or reduce their use of our services. In addition, these economic conditions have resulted in the past, and could result in the future, in higher inventory levels and the resulting excess capacity charges from our manufacturing partners if we need to slow production to reduce inventory levels. Further, in the event of a recession or threat of a recession our manufacturing partners, suppliers, distributors, and other third-party partners may suffer their own financial and economic challenges and as a result they may demand pricing accommodations, delay payment, or become insolvent, which could harm our ability to meet our customer demands or collect revenue or otherwise could harm our business. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our manufacturing partners, customers, suppliers and creditors and might cause us to not be able to continue to access preferred sources of liquidity when we would like, and our borrowing costs could increase. Thus, if general macroeconomic conditions, or conditions in the semiconductor industry, or conditions in our customer end markets continue to deteriorate or experience a sustained period of weakness or slower growth, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. 16 In addition, we are also subject to risk from inflation and increasing market prices of certain components, supplies, and commodity raw materials, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our manufacturing partners or suppliers to manufacture our end products. These components, supplies and commodities have from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions have in the past and may in the future affect pricing of such components, supplies and commodities (such as inflation or supply chain constraints). See also, Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in our average selling prices of products over time, shifts in our product mix, or price increases of certain components or third-party services due to inflation, supply chain constraints, or for other reasons. Unfavorable or uncertain conditions in the 5G, Cloud and AI markets may cause fluctuations in our rate of revenue growth or financial results. World-wide markets for our 5G, Cloud and AI products may not develop in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate. If domestic and global economic conditions continue to worsen, overall spending on our 5G, Cloud and AI products may be reduced, which would adversely impact demand for our products in these markets. In addition, unfavorable developments with evolving laws and regulations worldwide related to these products and suppliers may limit global adoption, impede our strategy, and negatively impact our long-term expectations in this area. Even if the 5G, Cloud and AI markets develop in the manner or in the time periods we anticipate, if we do not have timely, competitively priced, market-accepted products available to meet our customers planned roll-out of 5G wireless communication systems, Cloud systems, or products for the AI market, we may miss a significant opportunity and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as a result of the fact that the markets for 5G, Cloud, and AI are still emerging, demand for these products may be unpredictable and may vary significantly from one period to another. See also, Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. See also, Adverse changes in the political, regulatory and economic policies of governments in connection with trade with China and Chinese customers have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business for additional risks related to export restrictions that may impact certain customers in the 5G, Cloud and AI markets. Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenue may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For example, during fiscal 2024, we had one distributor whose revenue as a percentage of our net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenues. In addition, net revenue from our ten (10) largest customers, including this distributor, represented 72% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2024. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the U.S. or other governments (such as changes in export policies), and natural disasters or other issues. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent one or more of our large customers experience financial challenges, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. See also, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Sales and Customer Composition. If we are unable to increase the number of large customers in key markets, then our operating results in the foreseeable future would be expected to continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us; customers may purchase similar products from our competitors; customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products; 17 customers, particularly in jurisdictions such as China that may be subject to trade restrictions or tariffs, may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties; or customers may be subject to severe business disruptions, including, but not limited to, those driven by recessions, financial instability, actual or threatened public health emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, other global or regional macroeconomic developments, or natural disasters. In addition, there has been a trend toward customer consolidation in the semiconductor industry through business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, Toshiba Corporation sold control of a portion of its semiconductor business in 2018, and Cisco acquired Acacia Communications in 2021). Mergers or restructuring among our customers, or their end customers, could increase our customer concentration with a particular customer or reduce total demand as the combined entities reevaluate their business and consolidate their suppliers. Such future developments, particularly in those end markets that account for more significant portions of our revenues, could harm our business and our results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to negotiate as favorable terms with larger customers whether those customers resulted from customer consolidation, merger integrations or other reasons, and any such less favorable terms could harm our business and our results of operations. Given their dependence on semiconductor products to operate their data centers and to ensure continuity of supply and reduce direct costs, some large customers may begin developing their own semiconductor solutions with the use of generally available intellectual property licensed from third-parties which could result in a loss of business for Marvell. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory or be unable to obtain the supplies or contract manufacturing capacity to meet demand, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Some of our customers have, and others may in the future, cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In addition, customers who have purchase commitments may not honor those commitments. Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, during the last few years some of our customers have accumulated excess inventories and, as a consequence, they either have deferred or they may defer future purchases of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our customers product development processes, which may include extensive qualification and testing of components included in their products, including ours. In many cases, they design their products to use components from multiple suppliers. This creates the risk that our customers may decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our semiconductor solutions prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. In addition, while many of our customers are subject to purchase orders or other agreements that do not allow for cancellation, there can be no assurance that these customers will honor these contract terms and cancellation of these orders may adversely affect our business operations and demand forecast which is the basis for us to have products made. 18 Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which creates supply chain cross-dependencies. Due to cross dependencies, supply chain disruptions have in the past and may in the future negatively impact the demand for our products. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. As we have a broad product portfolio and diversified products with many different SKUs, significant supply chain disruptions will cause us to have more work-in-process inventories that we hold to provide us with more flexibility to support our customers. If we cannot predict future customer demand or supply chain disruptions, then we may hold excess or obsolete inventory. Moreover, significant supply chain disruption may negatively impact the timing of our product shipments and revenue shipment linearity which may impact and extend our cash conversion cycle. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations. See also, We rely on our manufacturing partners for the manufacture, assembly, testing and packaging of our products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested or to be able to fulfill our orders could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business for additional information on the impacts of supply chain cross-dependencies on our business. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for semiconductor solutions due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We operate in intensely competitive markets. Our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking, infrastructure and AI markets are extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing semiconductor solutions and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the infrastructure, networking and SSD storage markets. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. We also may experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices by our competitors that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. In addition, some of these competitors may use their market power to dissuade our customers from purchasing from us. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Moreover, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, NVIDIA Corporation acquired Mellanox Technologies in April 2020, Infineon acquired Cypress Semiconductors in April 2020, Renesas Electronics Corporation acquired Dialog Semiconductor in August 2021, Analog Devices acquired Maxim Integrated Products in 2021, AMD acquired Xilinx, Inc. in February 2022 and Pensando Systems in May 2022, Qualcomm acquired Veonner in April 2022, and Broadcom acquired VMware in November 2023. Consolidation among our competitors has led, and in the future could lead, to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations. 19 Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in our average selling prices of products over time, shifts in our product mix, or price increases of certain components or third-party services due to inflation, supply chain constraints, or for other reasons. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high-volume applications. While prices of our products have increased recently due to inflation and additional costs resulting from securing an increase in supply, the prices of our products have historically decreased. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In addition, our more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production expenses. Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and other means. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain price concessions to certain customers, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect to continue to have to reduce prices of existing products in the future. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. We may enter new markets in which a significant amount of competition exists, and this may require us to sell our products with lower gross margins than we earn in our established businesses. If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result may harm our financial results. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly, testing or packaging facilities, we are not able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. Our gross margin could also be impacted for example by the following factors: increased costs (including increased costs caused by tariffs, inflation, higher interest rates, or supply chain constraints); loss of cost savings if parts ordering does not correctly anticipate product demand or if the financial health of either our manufacturers partners or our suppliers deteriorates; excess inventory, or inventory holding and obsolescence charges. In addition, we are subject to risks from fluctuating market prices of certain components, which are incorporated into our products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our products. Supplies of these components may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions such as inflation or supply chain constraints have in the past affected and may in the future affect pricing of such commodities. For example, during the first few quarters of fiscal 2023 supply shortages in the semiconductor industry of multi-layer complex substrates, IC packaging capacity and fab constraints resulted in increased lead times, inability to meet demand, and increased costs. Any increase in the price of components used in our products will adversely affect our gross margins. We may enter into new markets, including markets with different business models, as a result of our acquisitions or for other reasons that may reduce our gross margin and operating margin. For example, for certain products we use an ASIC model to offer end-to-end solutions for intellectual property, design team, fab and packaging to deliver a tested, yielded product to customers. This business model tends to have a lower gross margin. In addition, the costs related to this type of business model typically include significant NRE costs that customers pay based on the completion of milestones. Our operating margin may decline if our customers do not agree to pay for NREs, if they do not pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs, or non-payment of previously agreed NRE costs. In addition, our operating margin may decline if we are unable to sell products in sufficient volumes to cover the development costs that we have incurred. In addition, the ASIC business model requires us to use third-party intellectual property and we may lose business or experience reputational harm if third parties, including customers, lose confidence in our ability to protect their intellectual property rights. With respect to risks related to our use of third-party intellectual property, see also, We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. 20 WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE RAPID GROWTH OF THE COMPANY AND WITH OUR STRATEGIC TRANSACTIONS We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet our customers needs or in an efficient manner, which could harm our operating results. Over the last few years, we have rapidly increased in size. As a result, we have had to, and expect in the future to continue to need to, appropriately scale our business, internal systems and organization, and to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, to serve our growing customer base. Even if we are able to upgrade our systems and expand our staff, any such expansion will likely be expensive and complex, requiring managements time and attention. We could also face inefficiencies, reduced productivity or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our business. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding our information technology systems. We cannot be sure that the expansion and improvements to our business operations will be fully or effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all. Any failure of, or delay in, these efforts could negatively impact performance and financial results. Recent, current and potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term strategy has included in the past, and may continue to include in the future, identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable companies, or divesting certain business lines, assets or activities. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate or dispose of business lines, assets or activities if they are no longer in alignment with our operational strategy and priorities. This strategy, and our willingness to use cash to pay for such transactions, may be adversely impacted by increasing interest rates. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. Given that our resources are limited, any decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions or making other capital allocation decisions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly underperform relative to our expectations. Our acquisitions may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, we may impose our business practices that adversely impact the acquired business or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on our investments, each or all of which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill. In addition, the use of our stock to finance an acquisition, will result in an increase in the number of outstanding shares and will reduce the ownership percentage of each of our outstanding stockholders. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner or at all. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, these transactions, or parts of these transactions, may fail to be completed due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; disputes or litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. In addition, such transactions are increasingly being subjected to regulatory review and other burdens, which could delay the closing of any transaction and greatly increase the costs related to such transaction. If we fail to complete a transaction, we may nonetheless have incurred significant expenses in connection with such transaction. Failure to complete a pending transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative perception of us among the investment community. 21 In addition, we used a significant portion of our cash and incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with the financing of our acquisition of Inphi, which was completed in fiscal 2022. Our use of cash to fund our acquisitions has reduced our liquidity and may (i) limit our flexibility in responding to other business opportunities, and (ii) increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Furthermore, the financing agreements in connection with our outstanding indebtedness contain negative covenants, limitations on indebtedness, liens, sale and leaseback transactions and mergers and other fundamental changes. Our ability to comply with these negative covenants can be affected by events beyond our control. Our indebtedness and these negative covenants will also have the effect, among other things, of limiting our ability to obtain additional financing, if needed, limiting our flexibility in the conduct of our business and making us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions. In addition, a breach of the negative covenants could result in an event of default with respect to the indebtedness, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. See also, We are subject to risks related to our debt obligations. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING-RELATED RISKS We rely on our manufacturing partners for the manufacture, assembly, testing and packaging of our products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested or to be able to fulfill our orders could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. We do not have our own manufacturing, assembly or packaging facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party manufacturing partners to produce our products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly, testing and packaging subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration Most of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China, Germany, South Korea, Singapore and the United States. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly, testing and packaging facilities are located in China, Malaysia, Singapore, Taiwan and Canada. Because of the geographic concentration of most of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly, testing and packaging subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional events including, for example, droughts, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, severe storms, power outages, or by actual or threatened public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic and future pandemics, or by political, social or economic instability, or by geopolitical tensions and conflicts. For example, we were impacted by COVID outbreaks in Asia in the first half of fiscal 2023 that resulted in closed factories, clogged ports and a shortage of workers as officials imposed lockdowns and mass testing requirements. In the case of such an event, our revenue, cost of goods sold and results of operations may be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries capable of producing advanced technologies and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. Although there is a movement in the U.S. to build more foundries locally and the U.S. government is providing funds or other incentives for certain companies to do so, we do not expect that such foundries will be available to us to produce advanced technologies any time soon, if ever. If we need to utilize alternate manufacturing facilities, either in Taiwan or elsewhere we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations. 22 No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply The ability of each of our manufacturing partners to provide us with materials and services is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of our partners capacity may be constrained or not available, and with certain exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and most of our manufacturing partners can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that their customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce them to reallocate capacity to those customers. Most of our manufacturing partnersmay reallocate capacity to their customers offering them a better margin or rate of return than provided by us. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Moreover, if any of our third-party manufacturing partners or other suppliers are unable to secure the necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages or labor shortages, or lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. There are a very limited number of foundries and consolidation of the foundries that provide services to us or to the semiconductor industry due to bankruptcy or through business combinations, including mergers, asset acquisitions and strategic partnerships may adversely impact us. A foundry, supplier or other manufacturing partner could become unavailable to us if it is acquired by a competitor or a large company that may change the scope of the offerings. Or a foundry may not be suitable for us if it does not invest in, or have the ability to manufacture, advanced technologies. In particular, as we and others in our industry transition to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums for these advanced technologies, which may harm our business or results of operations. See also, We may experience increased actual and opportunity costs as a result of our transition to smaller geometry process technologies. In addition, a foundry or supplier may become unavailable to us as a result of economic or political instability. Any disruption to our manufacturing partners could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow. We have in the past including in the first few quarters of fiscal 2023, and may in the future, experience a number of industry-wide supply constraints affecting the type of high complexity products we provide for data infrastructure. These supply constraints have impacted, and are expected in the future to impact, the kitting process for our products. These supply challenges have in the past, and may in the future, limit our ability to fully satisfy demand for some of our products. While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. Any disruption to our or foundry partners could result in a material decline in our revenue, net income and cash flow. In addition, our assembly testing and packaging partners may be single sourced and it may be difficult for us to transition to other manufacturing partners for these services. In order to secure sufficient capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we have entered into, and in the future may enter into, various arrangements with certain manufacturing partners or other suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with, or loans to, such parties in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of components over extended periods. We may not be able to make such arrangements in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. 23 During the first few quarters of fiscal 2023, supply shortages in the semiconductor industry of multi-layer complex substrates, IC packaging capacity, and specific wafer process node constraints resulted in increased lead times, inability to meet demand, and increased costs.Because of the geographic concentration of some of these suppliers, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional events including droughts, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, severe storms, power outages, or by actual or threatened public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or by political, social or economic instability. In addition, while the Russian invasion of Ukraine has not had a direct material impact on us due to our limited sales to Russia and Ukraine, we are unable to predict the indirect impact this conflict will have on us due to impacts on the supply chain, global and domestic economies, interest rates and stock markets. Moreover, while Israels declaration of war on Hamas, a U.S. designated Foreign Terrorist Organization, and current armed conflict in Israel and the Gaza Strip is not expected to have a material impact on us, we are unable to predict the full impact this conflict will have on us or our operations in Israel due to impacts on the supply chain, global and domestic economies, interest rates and stock markets. Uncertain Yields and Quality The fabrication of our products is a complex and technically demanding process. Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors. This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields. Our manufacturing partners have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners. Poor yields from our partners, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages in connection with product liability claims, which would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects could result in significant costs. See also, Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. Because we rely on outside manufacturing partners, we have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which has in the past and may in the future result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that delay shipments or increase costs. Commodity Prices We are also subject to risk from increasing or fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, including gold and copper, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities have from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions have in the past affected and may in the future affect pricing of such commodities (such as inflation or supply chain constraints). We may experience increased actual and opportunity costs as a result of our transition to smaller geometry process technologies. In order to remain competitive, we have transitioned, and expect to continue to transition, our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies. We also evaluate the costs of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies including both actual costs such as increased mask costs and wafer costs and increased costs related to EDA (electronic design automation) tools and the opportunity costs related to the technologies we choose to forego. These transitions are imperative for us to be competitive with the rest of the industry and to target some of our product development in high growth areas to these advanced nodes, which has resulted in significant initial design and development costs. We have been, and may continue to be, dependent on our relationships with our manufacturing partners to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the partners we use will be able to effectively manage any future transitions. In addition, there are a very limited number of foundries capable of producing advanced technologies, and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. If we or any of our partners experience significant delays in a future transition or fail to efficiently implement a transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. 24 As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. We rely on our customers to design our products into their systems, and the nature of the design process requires us to incur expenses prior to customer commitments to use our products or recognizing revenues associated with those expenses which may adversely affect our financial results. One of our primary focuses is on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop products for use in our customers products. We devote significant time and resources in working with our customers system designers to understand their future needs and to provide products that we believe will meet those needs and these bid selection processes can be lengthy. If a customers system designer initially chooses a competitors product, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products for use in that system because changing suppliers can involve significant cost, time, effort and risk for our customers. Thus, our failure to win a competitive bid can result in our foregoing revenues from a given customers product line for the life of that product. In addition, design opportunities may be infrequent or delayed. Our ability to compete in the future will depend, in large part, on our ability to design products to ensure compliance with our customers and potential customers specifications. We expect to invest significant time and resources and to incur significant expenses to design our products to ensure compliance with relevant specifications. We often incur significant expenditures in the development of a new product without any assurance that our customers system designers will select our product for use in their applications. We often are required to anticipate which product designs will generate demand in advance of our customers expressly indicating a need for that particular design. Even if our customers system designers select our products, a substantial period of time will elapse before we generate revenues related to the significant expenses we have incurred. The reasons for this delay generally include the following elements of our product sales and development cycle timeline and related influences: our customers usually require a comprehensive technical evaluation of our products before they incorporate them into their designs; it can take from six months to three years from the time our products are selected to commence commercial shipments; and our customers may experience changed market conditions or product development issues. The resources devoted to product development and sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us, and from time to time, we may need to write off excess and obsolete inventory if we have produced product in anticipation of expected demand. We may spend resources on the development of products that our customers may not adopt. If we incur significant expenses and investments in inventory in the future that we are not able to recover, and we are not able to compensate for those expenses, our operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, if we sell our products at reduced prices in anticipation of cost reductions but still hold higher cost products in inventory, our operating results would be harmed. Additionally, even if system designers use our products in their systems, we cannot assure you that these systems will be commercially successful or that we will receive significant revenue from the sales of our products for those systems. As a result, we may be unable to accurately forecast the volume and timing of our orders and revenues associated with any new product introductions. We have in the past, and may continue to, make custom or semi-custom products on an exclusive basis for some of our customers for a negotiated period of time. The percentage of our sales related to custom or semi-custom products has been increasing over the last few years. Any revenue from sales of our custom or semi-custom products is directly related to sales of the third-party customers products and reflective of their success in the market. We have no control over the marketing efforts of these third-party customers and cant make any assurances that sales of their products will be successful in current or future years. In addition, if these customers are bought by our competitors or other third parties, they may terminate agreements related to these custom or semi-custom products or otherwise limit our access to technology necessary for the production of these products. As a result, there may be no other customers for these products due to their custom or semi-custom nature. Consequently, we may not fully realize our expectations for custom or semi-custom product revenue and our operating results may be adversely affected. 25 Additionally, failure of our customers to agree to pay for NRE costs or failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs, or non-payment of previously agreed NRE costs due to us, can harm our financial results. See also, Research and Development under Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products that address customer requirements, in a timely and cost-effective manner and are competitive as to a variety of factors. For example, we must successfully identify customer requirements and design, develop and produce products on time that compete effectively as to price, functionality and performance. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new semiconductor solutions is highly complex and, due to a variety of factors, including supply chain cross-dependencies, dependencies on EDA and similar tools, dependencies on the use of third-party, business partner or customer intellectual property, collaboration and synchronization requirements with business partners and customers, requirements to establish new manufacturing, testing, assembly and packing processes, and other factors, we may experience delays in completing the design, development, production and introduction of our new products. Any delays could result in increased development costs, hurt our customer relationships including our ability to win new designs, resulting in lost potential future revenue, or impact our ability to allocate resources to other projects. See also, We rely on our manufacturing partners for the manufacture, assembly, testing and packaging of our products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested or to be able to fulfill our orders could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business for additional information on the impacts of supply chain cross-dependencies on our business. Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future industry standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully and in a timely manner. Even if we and our customers introduce new and enhanced products to the market, those products may not achieve market acceptance. Some of our customers require our products and our third-party manufacturing partners to undergo a lengthy and expensive qualification process which does not assure product sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying these products with a customer, our business and operating results would suffer. Prior to purchasing our products, some of our customers require that both our products and our third-party manufacturing partners undergo extensive qualification processes, which involve testing of our products in the customers systems, as well as testing for reliability. This qualification process can take several months and qualification of a product by a customer does not assure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision in our third-party manufacturing partners process or our selection of a new supplier may require a new qualification process with our customers, which may result in delays and in our holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take several months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or systems that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, to qualify our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying these products with a customer, sales of the products to the customer may be precluded or delayed, which may impede our growth and cause our business to suffer. 26 Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. We make highly complex semiconductor solutions and, accordingly, there is a risk of defects in our products. Such defects can give rise to the significant costs noted below. Moreover, since the cost of replacing defective products is often much higher than the value of the products themselves, we are subject to damage claims from customers in excess of the amounts they pay us for our products, including consequential damages. We also face exposure to potential liability resulting from the fact that our customers typically integrate the semiconductor solutions we sell into numerous consumer products, including automobiles. We are exposed to product liability claims if our semiconductor solutions or the consumer products integrated with our semiconductor solutions (such as automobiles), malfunction and lead to personal injury or death. In addition, our customers may issue recalls on their products if they prove to be defective or make compensatory payments in accordance with industry or business practice or in order to maintain good customer relationships. If such recalls or payments are the result of a defect in one of our products, our customers may seek to recover all or a portion of their losses from us. Recalls of our customers products in certain end-markets, such as with our automotive and base station customers, may cause us to incur significant costs. In addition, despite our testing procedures, we cannot ensure that errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future. Such errors could result in: loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products; material recall and replacement costs; delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenue; writing down the inventory of defective products; the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts; our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury; and damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources. We may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field, which may cause us to incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and further reputational harm. Any of these problems could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Despite our best efforts, security vulnerabilities may exist with respect to our products. Mitigation techniques designed to address such security vulnerabilities, including software and firmware updates or other preventative measures, may not operate as intended or effectively resolve such vulnerabilities. Software and firmware updates and/or other mitigation efforts may result in performance issues, system instability, data loss or corruption, unpredictable system behavior, or the theft of data by third parties, any of which could significantly harm our business and reputation. See also, Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract distributors or manufacturers representatives, or if any of our distributors or manufacturers representatives are unsuccessful in marketing and selling our products or terminate their relationships with us, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. 27 WE OPERATE GLOBALLY AND ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS IN MANY JURISDICTIONS Adverse changes in the political, regulatory and economic policies of governments in connection with trade with China and Chinese customers have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business. Regulatory activity, such as tariffs, export controls and sanctions, economic sanctions and related laws have in the past and may continue to materially limit our ability to make sales to customers in China, which has in the past and may continue to harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition. Moreover, to the extent the governments of China, the United States or other countries seek to promote use of domestically produced products or to reduce the dependence upon or use of products from another (sometimes referred to as decoupling), they may adopt or apply regulations or policies that have the effect of reducing business opportunities for us. Such actions may take the form of specific restrictions on particular customers, products, technology areas, or business combinations. For example, in the area of investments and mergers and acquisitions, the United States has recently announced new requirements for approval by the United States government of outbound investments; and the approval by China regulatory authorities is required for business combinations of companies that conduct business in China over specific thresholds, regardless of where those businesses are based. Restrictions may also be imposed based on whether the supplier is considered unreliable or a security risk. For example, the Chinese government adopted a law that would restrict purchases from suppliers deemed to be unreliable suppliers. In May 2023, the Cyberspace Administration of China banned the sale of Micron Technology, Inc.s products to certain entities in China and stated that such products pose significant security risks to China's critical information infrastructure supply chain and national security. Then in July 2023, China announced restrictions on the export of gallium and geranium, both of which are used in the manufacture of semiconductors, stating that such restrictions are intended to protect Chinas national security. While we dont expect these recently announced restrictions to materially impact us, any export restrictions reducing our ability to manufacture our products can adversely impact our revenues, profits and results of operations. Concerns that semiconductors are necessary for national security, manufacturing and critical infrastructure, as well as concerns of their potential use to restrict human rights, has led to increased U.S. export restrictions impacting sales of semiconductors and semiconductor technology to China or specific customers in China. For example, the addition of certain companies to the Entity List, which places export restrictions on certain foreign persons or entities by the U.S. Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security, has dampened demand for our products. Due to the U.S. government restricting sales to certain customers in China, sales to some customers require licenses for us to export our products; however, in the past some of these licenses have been delayed or denied and there can be no assurances that requests for future licenses will be approved by the U.S. government. In addition, certain existing export licenses to China may be revoked due to changes in U.S. government policy. In February 2022, the U.S. National Science and Technology Council published an updated list of critical and emerging technologies, which includes semiconductors, as part of an ongoing effort to identify advanced technologies that are potentially significant to U.S. national security, which could result in more stringent export controls or a greater number of our products requiring a license for export to China. In addition, the U.S. Department of Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security recently released new controls on the export of advanced computing and semiconductor manufacturing items to China as well as transactions related to supercomputer end-uses in China with the aim of addressing U.S. national security and foreign policy concerns. The regulations published in October 2022 include new restrictions on U.S. persons with respect to activities that are not subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), which differs from the agencys historical approach of controlling items that are subject to the EAR, and the regulations published in October 2023 impose additional licensing requirements for exports to China (and certain other countries) of integrated circuits exceeding certain performance thresholds. Export restrictions reducing our sales of products to China, have in the past and can adversely impact our revenues, profits and results of operations. In addition to direct impacts on our products there may be indirect impacts to our business that we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that export restrictions may also impact some of our other customers products that incorporate ours as a component, or that may cause customers to develop their own products or solutions instead of purchasing from us or to acquire products or solutions from our competitors or other third-party sources. Moreover, concerns that U.S. companies may not be reliable suppliers as a result of the foregoing and other actions has caused, and may in the future cause, some of our customers in China to amass large inventories of our products well in advance of need or cause some of our customers to replace our products in favor of products from other suppliers. This can adversely affect accurately assessing our current and future demand for our products and our business. Most of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan. In addition to restrictions imposed by the United States or China on exports or imports from one another, we may be adversely impacted by export restrictions, labeling requirements or other trade related issues or disputes, or political conflicts or tensions between China and Taiwan as these restrictions and requirements could impact or delay the delivery of our products to our customers in China. 28 We typically sell products to customers in China pursuant to purchase orders rather than long term purchase commitments. Some customers in China may be able to cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a penalty and, therefore, they may be more likely to do so while the tariffs and trade restrictions are in effect. See also, the Risk Factor entitled We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory or be unable to obtain the supplies or contract manufacturing capacity to meet demand, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. Changes to U.S. or foreign tax, trade policy, tariff and import/export regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in U.S. or foreign international tax, social, political, regulatory and economic conditions or in laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, development and investment in the territories or countries where we currently sell our products or conduct our business have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our business. For example, while the Russian invasion of Ukraine (including related export and other business sanctions on Russia) has not had a material impact on us due to our limited sales to Russia and Ukraine, we are unable to predict the indirect impact this conflict will have on us through impacts to the supply chain, the global and domestic economies, interest rates or stock markets. The U.S. government has in the past, and may in the future, instituted or proposed changes in trade policies that included the negotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the U.S., economic sanctions on individuals, corporations or countries, and other government regulations affecting trade between the U.S. and other countries where we conduct our business. Any new tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy could trigger retaliatory actions by affected countries, and certain foreign governments have instituted or are considering imposing trade sanctions on certain U.S. goods. In addition, the U.S. government has in the past, and may in the future, adopted policies that discourage corporations from outsourcing manufacturing and production activities to foreign jurisdictions, including through tariffs or penalties on goods manufactured outside the U.S., which required us to change the way we conduct business. Political changes and trends such as populism, protectionism, economic nationalism and sentiment toward multinational companies and resulting changes to trade, tax or other laws and policies may be disruptive to our businesses. These changes in U.S. and foreign laws and policies have the potential to adversely impact the U.S. economy or certain sectors thereof, our industry and the global demand for our products, and as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See also, Adverse changes in the political, regulatory and economic policies of governments in connection with trade with China and Chinese customers have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business and "Changes in existing taxation benefits, tax rules or tax practices may adversely affect our financial results. We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of many of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. Most of our products are manufactured by our manufacturing partners outside of the United States. Most of our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan. In addition, our primary assembly, testing and packaging subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. For example, a substantial amount of our revenue is derived from products manufactured in Taiwan and as a result, disruptions to business in Taiwan, whether political, military, natural disasters or other events will adversely impact our business. In addition, many of our customers have operations located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 70% and 75% of our net revenue in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing, packaging and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: political, social and economic instability, military hostilities including invasions, wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; volatile global economic conditions, including downturns or recessions in which some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin; 29 compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, including any pending changes thereto, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices that are prohibited by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; difficulties in staffing, managing or closing foreign operations; natural disasters or other events, including droughts or other water shortages, earthquakes, fires, tsunamis and floods, or power outages; trade restrictions, higher tariffs, worsening trade relationship between the United States and China, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the tariffs imposed by the U.S. government; transportation delays such as the blockage of the Suez Canal affecting the flow of trade out of Asia, port closures and similar logistical issues; difficulties in obtaining, managing or terminating foreign distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; inadequate local infrastructure; actual or threatened public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 pandemic on our operations, employees, customers and suppliers; and exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. For example, we are subject to risks related to Israels declaration of war on Hamas, a U.S. designated Foreign Terrorist Organization and the current armed conflict in Israel and the Gaza Strip. We have employees in Israel. These employees may be impacted by: (1) disruptions to operations and business continuity, including physical damage or impaired access to company facilities, offices or technology, and disruptions in access to electricity, gasoline or water, and (2) workforce disruptions, including the mobilization of employees who are members of the Israeli military reserves to active duty, disrupted communication with employees in the conflict zone and restrictions on movement in areas subject to armed conflict. While these disruptions are not currently expected to have a material impact on us, at this time we are unable to predict the full impact this conflict will have on us and our employees in the future. As a result of having global operations, the sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or disruption of the manufacture of our customers products caused by events outside of our control has in the past and may in the future impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. See also, We rely on our manufacturing partners for the manufacture, assembly, testing and packaging of our products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested or to be able to fulfill our orders could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturing partners have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations. In addition, an appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the local currency could reduce sales of our products. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR DEBT OBLIGATIONS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry. As of February 3, 2024, we had a total of $4.2 billion debt outstanding, which consisted of $3.5 billion of senior notes outstanding and $700.0 million outstanding under our 2026 Term Loan. We also had $1.0 billion of availability under our 2023 Revolving Credit Facility. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us including: increasing our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; 30 requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, execution of our business strategy, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the economy and the semiconductor industry; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less indebtedness; exposing us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate indebtedness, particularly in the current environment of rising interest rates; and making it more difficult to borrow additional funds in the future to fund growth, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. Although the Credit Agreements contain restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and the indentures governing the Notes (together, the Notes Indentures) contain restrictions on creating liens and entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness, liens or sale-leaseback transactions incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. The Credit Agreements, the Notes Indentures and the indenture governing the MTI Senior Notes contain customary events of default upon the occurrence of which, after any applicable grace period, the lenders would have the ability to immediately declare the loans due and payable in whole or in part. In such event, we may not have sufficient available cash to repay such debt at the time it becomes due, or be able to refinance such debt on acceptable terms or at all. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse changes to our debt ratings could negatively affect our ability to raise additional capital. We receive debt ratings from the major credit rating agencies in the United States. Factors that may impact our credit ratings include debt levels, planned asset purchases or sales and near-term and long-term production growth opportunities. Liquidity, asset quality, cost structure, reserve mix and commodity pricing levels could also be considered by the rating agencies. The applicable margins with respect to the loans incurred under the Credit Agreements will vary based on the applicable public ratings assigned to the indebtedness by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC, Fitchs and any successor to each such rating agency business. A ratings downgrade could adversely impact our ability to access debt markets in the future and increase the cost of current or future debt and may adversely affect our share price. The Credit Agreements and the Notes Indentures impose restrictions on our business. The Credit Agreements and the Notes Indentures each contains a number of covenants imposing restrictions on our business. These restrictions may affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. The restrictions, among other things, restrict our ability and our subsidiaries ability to create or incur certain liens, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, merge or consolidate with other companies, pay dividends, transfer or sell assets and make restricted payments. These restrictions are subject to a number of limitations and exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreements and the Notes Indentures. Our ability to meet the leverage ratio set forth in the Credit Agreements may be affected by events beyond our control. The foregoing restrictions could limit our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in market conditions or our capital needs. We do not know whether we will be granted waivers under, or amendments to, our Credit Agreements or to the Notes Indentures if for any reason we are unable to meet these requirements, or whether we will be able to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 31 We may be unable to generate the cash flow to service our debt obligations. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to enable us to service our indebtedness, including the Notes, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our ability to pay our expenses and satisfy our debt obligations, refinance our debt obligations and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to borrow sufficient funds in the future to service our debt, we may be required to sell assets, reduce capital expenditures, refinance all or a portion of our existing debt (including the Notes) or obtain additional financing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance our debt, sell assets or borrow more money on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of our debt could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition, a material default on our indebtedness could suspend our eligibility to register securities using certain registration statement forms under SEC guidelines that permit incorporation by reference of substantial information regarding us, potentially hindering our ability to raise capital through the issuance of our securities and increasing our costs of registration. We may, under certain circumstances, be required to repurchase the Notes at the option of the holder. We will be required to repurchase the Notes at the option of each holder upon the occurrence of a change of control repurchase event as defined in the Notes Indentures. However, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the Notes in cash at the time of any change of control repurchase event. Our failure to repurchase the Notes upon a change of control repurchase event would be an event of default under the Notes Indentures and could cause a cross-default or acceleration under the Credit Agreements and certain future agreements governing our other indebtedness. The repayment obligations under the Notes may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a takeover of our company. If we were required to repurchase the Notes prior to their scheduled maturity, it could have a significant negative impact on our cash and liquidity and could impact our ability to invest financial resources in other strategic initiatives. CHANGES IN OUR EFFECTIVE TAX RATE MAY REDUCE OUR NET INCOME Changes in existing taxation benefits, tax rules or tax practices may adversely affect our financial results. Since closing our acquisition of Inphi in April 2021, we have been domiciled in the United States. As such, the income from all of our foreign subsidiaries has been subject to the U.S. tax provisions applicable to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (GILTI), which generally requires that GILTI income be included in the taxable income of U.S. entities. The U.S. currently has a federal corporate tax rate of 21%. President Biden signed into law the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the IRA) on August 16, 2022 and the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022 on August 9, 2022. These laws implement new tax provisions and provide for various incentives and tax credits. The IRA applies to tax years beginning after December 31, 2022 and introduces a 15% corporate alternative minimum tax for corporations whose average annual adjusted financial statement income for any consecutive three-tax-year period preceding the tax year exceeds $1 billion and a 1% excise tax on certain stock repurchases made by publicly traded U.S. corporations after December 31, 2022. While we are not currently subject to additional taxes under the IRA, if in the future, we become subject to these taxes, it could materially affect our financial results, including our earnings and cash flows. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (the OECD) has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, and since 2015 has been issuing guidelines and proposals with respect to various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in countries in which we do business. In 2021, the OECD announced that more than 140 member jurisdictions (including the United States, Singapore, and Bermuda) have politically committed to potential changes to the international corporate tax system, including enacting a minimum tax rate of at least 15% as part of the OECDs Pillar Two initiative. During December 2022, the European Union reached agreement on the introduction of a minimum tax directive requiring member states to enact local legislation. Such proposed changes have not generally been enacted into law in most of the primary jurisdictions in which we operate. On February 16, 2024, Singapore announced in its budget that it plans to implement aspects of Pillar Two, including a 15% minimum top up tax for periods beginning on or after January 1, 2025, and Singapore also announced that it plans to implement certain new tax credit regimes that could reduce future Singapore income taxes. No legislation in Singapore has been enacted at this time regarding Pillar Two or the aforementioned tax credits, and the effects of any future legislation on us are not currently estimable, but if enacted, could be material to our financial results, earnings, and cash flows. We will continue to monitor countries laws with respect to the OECD model rules and the Pillar Two global minimum tax. We do not believe Pillar Two has any material effect on us at this time, and the effects of any future legislation in this area are not yet reasonably estimable, but if such legislation is enacted in the future, could have a material effect on our provision for income taxes, our financial results, and our earnings and cash flows. 32 We calculate our income taxes based on currently enacted laws. Because of increasing focus by government taxing authorities on multinational companies, the tax laws of certain countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could increase our liabilities for taxes, interest and penalties, and could materially adversely impact our financial results, including our earnings and cash flows. In prior years, we entered into incentive agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that provide for reduced tax rates in such jurisdictions if certain criteria are met. During the quarter ended April 30, 2022, the Singapore Economic Development Board agreed to extend our Development and Expansion Incentive by five years until June 30, 2029. In addition, Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., is entitled to certain tax benefits under the Israeli Encouragement of Investments Law (Encouragement Law) Special Technology Enterprise Regime, which includes reduced corporate income tax rates, subject to various operating requirements and other conditions. Receipt of past and future benefits under tax agreements and incentives may depend on several factors, including but not limited to, our ability to fulfill commitments regarding employment of personnel, investment, or performance of specified activities in the applicable jurisdictions as well as changes in foreign laws, including changes related to Pillar Two. Changes in our business plans, including divestitures, as well as changes to tax laws, including changes related to Pillar Two, could result in termination of or renegotiation of an agreement or loss of tax benefits thereunder. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated or renegotiated, our results of operations and our financial position could be harmed. In prior periods, we transferred certain intellectual property to a related entity in Singapore. The impact to us was based on our determination of the fair value of this property, which required management to make significant estimates and to apply complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. In future periods, local tax authorities may challenge our valuations of these assets, which could reduce our expected tax benefits from these transactions. Our profitability and effective tax rate could be impacted by unexpected changes to our statutory income tax rates or income tax liabilities. Such changes could result from various items, including changes in tax laws or regulations, changes to court or administrative interpretations of tax laws, changes to our geographic mix of earnings, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in valuation allowances on our deferred tax assets, discrete items, changes in our supply chain, and changes due to audit assessments. In particular, the tax benefits associated with our transfer of intellectual property to Singapore are sensitive to our future profitability and taxable income in Singapore, audit assessments, and changes in applicable tax law. Our current corporate effective tax rate fluctuates significantly from period to period, and is based on the application of currently applicable income tax laws, regulations and treaties, as well as current judicial and administrative interpretations of these income tax laws, regulations and treaties, in various jurisdictions. WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS RELATED TO OUR ASSETS We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We had approximately $11.6 billion of goodwill and $4.0 billion of acquired intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet as of February 3, 2024. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. When testing goodwill for impairment, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value or we may determine to proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. Factors we consider important in the qualitative assessment which could trigger a goodwill impairment review include: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and a significant change in our market capitalization relative to our net book value. We assess the impairment of intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. Circumstances which could trigger a review include, but are not limited to the following: significant decreases in the market price of the asset; significant adverse changes in the business climate or legal factors; accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of the asset; current period cash flow or operating losses combined with a history of losses or a forecast of continuing losses associated with the use of the asset; and current expectation that the asset will more likely than not be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its estimated useful life. For example, if the operations of any businesses that we have acquired declines significantly, we could incur significant intangible asset impairment charges. 33 During fiscal 2024, we made changes to our business to streamline our organization and optimize resources, which resulted in recognition of $131.1 million of restructuring related charges. See Note 10 Restructuring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We have determined that our business operates as a single operating segment and has a single reporting unit for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing. The fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. If in the future a change in our organizational structure results in more than one reporting unit, we will be required to allocate our goodwill and perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment in each reporting unit. As a result, we could have an impairment of goodwill in one or more of such future reporting units. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. Our buildings in Santa Clara, California and Shanghai, China subject us to the risks of owning real property, which include, but are not limited to: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with remediating any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties due to economic conditions, the movement by many companies to a full time work from home or a hybrid work environment, interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhood in which the property is located, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic and other legal or regulatory requirements; the potential disruption of our business and operations arising from or connected with a relocation due to moving or to renovating the facility; increased cash commitments for improvements to the buildings or the property, or both; increased operating expenses for the buildings or the property, or both; possible disputes with third parties related to the buildings or the property, or both; failure to achieve expected cost savings due to extended non-occupancy of a vacated property intended to be leased; and the risk of financial loss in excess of amounts covered by insurance, or uninsured risks, such as the loss caused by damage to the buildings as a result of earthquakes, floods and/or other natural disasters. WE ARE SUBJECT TO IP RISKS AND RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH LITIGATION AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from the collection of proprietary technologies we have developed and acquired since our inception, and the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenue. 34 We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, manufacturing or other business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past. To the extent that any third-party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies. See also, We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may also be required to license some of our patents to others including competitors as a result of our participation in and contribution to development of industry standards. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we have implemented security systems with the intent of maintaining the physical security of our facilities and protecting our confidential information including our intellectual property. Despite our efforts, we may be subject to breach of these security systems and controls which may result in unauthorized access to our facilities and labs and/or unauthorized use or theft of the confidential information and intellectual property we are trying to protect. See also, Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenue. Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers, may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license we customarily use to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. In addition, we license technology from Arm Limited that is included in a majority of our products and would be adversely impacted if the pricing for, or availability of, the relevant technology is changed in an adverse manner. Further, governments and courts are considering new issues in intellectual property law with respect to works created by AI technology, which could result in different intellectual property rights in development processes, procedures and technologies we create with AI technology, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 35 We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations, as well as sustainability initiatives, that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide, which may differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: intellectual property ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; anti-trust; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; conflict minerals; data privacy requirements; competition; advertising; employment and human rights; product regulations; environment, health and safety requirements; securities registration laws; and consumer laws. For example, government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. In addition, we are subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in compliance with such laws and regulations. Our compliance programs rely in part on compliance by our manufacturing partners, suppliers, vendors and distributors. To the extent such third parties dont comply with these obligations our business, operations and reputation may be adversely impacted. If we violate or fail to comply with any of the above requirements, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. The costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of any investigations, auditing and monitoring) could adversely affect our current or future business. Our product or manufacturing standards could also be impacted by new or revised environmental rules and regulations or other social initiatives. For example, a significant portion of our revenues come from international sales. Environmental legislation, such as the EU Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS), the EU Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE Directive) and Chinas regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our revenues from the EU, China and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. Increasingly regulators (including the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission), customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders are focusing on sustainability matters. While we have certain sustainability initiatives at the Company there can be no assurance that regulators, customers, investors, and employees will determine that these programs are sufficiently robust. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish our announced goals related to our sustainability program, as statements regarding our sustainability goals reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them within the timelines we announce or at all. Actual or perceived shortcomings with respect to our sustainability initiatives, including our diversity initiatives, and reporting can impact our ability to hire and retain employees, increase our customer base, reelect our board of directors, or attract and retain certain types of investors. In addition, these parties are increasing focused on specific disclosures and frameworks related to sustainability matters. Collecting, measuring, and reporting sustainability information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming, is subject to evolving reporting standards, and can present numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal and other risks, any of which could have a material impact on us, including on our reputation and stock price. Inadequate processes to collect and review this information prior to disclosure could subject us to potential liability related to such information. In addition, several U.S. states having enacted or proposed anti-ESG policies or legislation. While these policies and related legislation are generally targeted to investment advisory firms and mutual funds, if these investors viewed our sustainability practices including our climate-related goals and commitments, as being in contradiction of such anti-ESG policies, such investors may not invest in the Company and it could negatively affect the price of our common stock. A portion of the business we acquired in fiscal 2021 requires facility security clearances under the National Industrial Security Program. The National Industrial Security Program requires that a corporation maintaining a facility security clearance be effectively insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence (FOCI). Because we were organized in Bermuda at the time of this acquisition, we entered into agreements with the U.S. Department of Defense with respect to FOCI mitigation arrangements that relate to our operation of the portion of the business involving facility clearances. After our domestication, we requested and have now received partial release from some of these obligations. The remaining measures and arrangements may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the increased cost of compliance with these measures. If we fail to comply with our obligations under these agreements, our ability to operate our business may be adversely affected. 36 We are a party to certain contracts with the U.S. government or its subcontractors. Our contracts with the U.S. government or its subcontractors are subject to various procurement regulations and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. We may be subject to audits and investigations relating to our government contracts, and any violations could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refunding or suspending of payments, forfeiture of profits, payment of fines, and suspension or debarment from future government business. In addition, such contracts may provide for termination by the government at any time, without cause. Any of these risks related to contracting with the U.S. government or its subcontractors could adversely impact our future sales and operating results. New technology trends, such as AI, require us to keep pace with evolving regulations and industry standards. In the United States, the European Union, and China, there are various current and proposed regulatory frameworks relating to the use of AI in products and services. We expect that the legal and regulatory environment relating to emerging technologies such as AI will continue to develop and could increase the cost of doing business, and create compliance risks and potential liability, all which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been named as a party to several legal proceedings and may be named in additional ones in the future, including litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, require us to stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. We are currently, and have been in the past, named as a party to several lawsuits, government inquiries or investigations and other legal proceedings (referred to as litigation), and we may be named in additional litigation in the future. Please see Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of any material litigation matters in which we may be currently engaged. In particular, litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. The amount of damages alleged in intellectual property infringement claims can often be very significant. See also, We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. From time to time, we receive and our customers receive, and we and our customers may continue to receive in the future, standards-based or other types of infringement claims, as well as claims against us and our proprietary technologies. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement or other license violations that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses for current and former directors and officers. See also, Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, from time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims alleging infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. If we are required to make a significant payment under any of our indemnification obligations, our results of operations may be harmed. 37 The ultimate outcome of litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. Litigation, regardless of the outcome, may result in significant expenditures, diversion of our managements time and attention from the operation of our business and damage to our reputation or relationships with third parties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and stock price. WE ARE SUBJECT TO CYBERSECURITY RISKS Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations. We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. We routinely collect and store sensitive data in our information systems, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and manufacturing and other business partners. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including, but not limited to, natural disasters, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, nation state advanced persistent threats, internal malfeasance or other events. Cyber-attacks may include phishing or other forms of social engineering attacks, exploits of code or system configurations, malicious code, such as viruses and worms, ransomware attacks, denial-of-service attacks and other actions granting unauthorized access to our technology infrastructure or information systems or those of our customers, suppliers and manufacturing and other business partners. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future be the target of email phishing attacks that attempt to acquire personal information or Company assets. As AI capabilities improve and become increasingly commonplace, we may see cyberattacks leveraging AI technology. These attacks could be crafted with an AI tool to directly attack information systems with increased speed and/or efficiency compared to a human threat actor or create more effective phishing emails. In addition, a vulnerability could be introduced from the result of our or our customers and business partners incorporating the output of an AI tool, such as AI generated source code, that includes a threat. We have implemented cybersecurity processes, taking guidance from recognized cybersecurity frameworks to mitigate risks; however, we cannot guarantee that those risk mitigation measures will be effective. See Item 1C Cybersecurity of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about our cybersecurity processes. We have not experienced a material information security breach in the last three years, and as a result, we have not incurred any net expenses from such a breach. We have not been penalized or paid any amount under an information security breach settlement over the last three years. Further, we annually assess our insurance policy and have determined not to purchase cyber related insurance. Cyber-attacks have become increasingly more prevalent and much harder to detect, defend against or prevent. The risk of state-sponsored or geopolitical-related cybersecurity incidents has also increased recently due to geopolitical tensions or incidents, such as the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the armed conflict in Israel and the Gaza Strip. While we have historically been successful in defending against the cyber-attacks and breaches mentioned above, given the frequency of cyber-attacks and resulting breaches reported by other businesses and governments, it is likely we will experience one or more material breaches of some extent in the future. We have incurred and may in the future incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems we believe are necessary to protect our information systems, or we may miscalculate the level of investment necessary to protect our systems adequately. Since the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Our business also requires us to share confidential information with manufacturing partners, suppliers, customers and other third parties. Although we take steps to secure our confidential information that is provided to third parties, such measures may not always be effective. Data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to or releases of confidential information have in the past occurred with these third parties and material data breaches, losses or other unauthorized access to, or releases of, our confidential information may in the future occur in connection with third-party breaches that could materially adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and operating results and could result in liability or penalties under data privacy laws. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in material disruptions or interruptions to our operations, or those of our customers, suppliers and manufacturing and other business partners, or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to our data or confidential information, including our intellectual property, our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 38 GENERAL RISK FACTORS We depend on highly skilled personnel to support our business operations. If we are unable to retain and motivate our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled engineering, managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The competition for qualified personnel with significant experience in the management, design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of semiconductor solutions has been intense over the last few years, both in the Silicon Valley and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including executive officers, hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, impact our ability to fulfill commitments to customers for, and harm our ability to sell, our products. In addition, if we are unable to fulfill our customer commitments in a timely manner, we may also lose future business relationships or otherwise experience negative consequences. Despite a wave of recent layoffs in the technology sector, competitors for talent increasingly seek to hire our employees and executive officers (for example, our former Chief Financial Officer was hired by another semiconductor company in 2023), and the increased availability of work-from-home arrangements has both intensified and expanded competition. As a result, during the last few years, we have increased our efforts to recruit and retain talent. These efforts have increased our expenses, resulted in a higher volume of equity issuances, and may not be successful in attracting, retaining, and motivating the workforce necessary to deliver on our strategy. We believe equity compensation is a valuable component of our compensation program which helps us to attract, retain, and motivate employees and as a result we issue stock-based awards, such as RSUs, to a significant portion of our employees. A significant change in our stock price or lower stock price performance relative to competitors, may reduce the retention value of our stock-based awards. Our employee hiring and retention also depends on our ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture and be viewed as an employer of choice. To the extent our compensation programs and workplace culture are not viewed as competitive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees may be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Changes to U.S. immigration and export policies that restrict our ability to attract and retain technical personnel may negatively affect our research and development efforts. In addition, changes in employment-related laws applicable to our workforce practices may also result in increased expenses and less flexibility in how we meet our changing workforce needs. In addition, as a result of our past and any future acquisitions and related integration activities, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their futures that may impair our ability to retain, recruit or motivate key management, engineering, technical and other personnel. We have adopted a hybrid work policy for our employees, where employees have the option to split their time between home and the office. However, certain types of activities such as new product innovation, critical business decision making, brainstorming sessions, providing sensitive employee feedback, and onboarding new employees may be less effective in a hybrid work environment. Our hybrid work environment may also negatively impact social interactions between employees that build camaraderie and may, therefore, negatively impact our office culture. Many companies, including companies that we compete with for talent, have announced plans to adopt full time remote work arrangements or hybrid work arrangements more flexible than ours, which may impact our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel if potential or current employees prefer these policies. In addition, as a result of our hybrid work environment, we expect to face challenges in retention of personnel who prefer to only work from home. 39 There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends or effect stock repurchases in any particular amount or at all, and statutory requirements may require us to defer payment of declared dividends or suspend stock repurchases. In May 2012, we declared our first quarterly cash dividend and in October 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a $700.0 million addition to our previously existing $1.0 billion stock repurchase program. An aggregate of $1.4 billion of shares of stock have been repurchased under that program as of February 3, 2024. Subsequent to our fiscal year end, in March 2024, our Board of Directors increased the repurchase program mentioned above and authorized an additional $3.0 billion to that repurchase program. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common stock and future stock repurchases are subject to, among other things: the best interests of the Company and our stockholders; our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements; financial condition; developments in ongoing litigation; statutory requirements under Delaware law; securities laws and regulations, market conditions; and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments or stock repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase stock in any particular amounts or at all. A reduction in, a delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments or stock repurchases could have a negative effect on our stock price. As of February 3, 2024, there was $299.5 million remaining available for future stock repurchases under the prior authorization. Our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Under Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current and future investigations and litigation. Further, in the event such directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them. We cannot provide any assurances that any future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover our claims. Additionally, to the extent there is coverage of these claims, the insurers also may seek to deny or limit coverage in some or all of these matters. Furthermore, the insurers could become insolvent and unable to fulfill their obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us for insured claims. Due to these coverage limitations, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As we carry only limited insurance coverage, any incurred liability resulting from uncovered claims could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our insurance policies may not be adequate to fully offset losses from covered incidents, and we do not have coverage for certain losses. For example, there is very limited coverage available with respect to the services provided by our third-party manufacturing partners and assembly, testing and packaging subcontractors. In the event of a natural disaster (such as drought, earthquake or tsunami), political or military turmoil, widespread public health emergencies including pandemics, power outages, cyber-attacks or incidents, or other significant disruptions to their operations, insurance may not adequately protect us from this exposure. We believe our existing insurance coverage is consistent with common practice, economic considerations and availability considerations. If our insurance coverage is insufficient to protect us against unforeseen losses, any uncovered losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to global pandemics, which may significantly disrupt and adversely impact our manufacturing, research and development, operations, sales and financial results. Our business was adversely impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and may be similarly adversely impacted by future pandemics. In addition to global and domestic macroeconomic effects, during fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023 the COVID-19 pandemic and related adverse public health measures caused disruption to our global operations and sales. Our third-party manufacturing partners, suppliers, distributors, sub-contractors and customers were disrupted by worker absenteeism, quarantines and restrictions on their employees ability to work; office and factory closures; disruptions to ports and other shipping infrastructure; border closures; and other travel or health-related restrictions. Although the pandemic related restrictions above have eased in most places, resurgences of COVID-19 in various regions and appearances of new variants of the virus, has resulted, and may continue to result, in their full or partial reinstitution. In addition, although many countries have vaccinated large segments of their population, during fiscal 2023, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to disrupt business activities, trade, and supply chains in many countries. 40 Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, including events or risks involving liquidity, defaults or non-performance by financial institutions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB), where we maintained certain accounts with an immaterial amount of cash deposits, was placed into receivership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which resulted in all funds held at SVB being temporarily inaccessible by SVBs customers. As of March 13, 2023, access to our accounts at SVB was fully restored. We do not expect further developments with SVB (or similar regional banks) to have a material impact on our cash and cash equivalents, however, we do hold cash balances in several large financial institutions significantly in excess of FDIC and global insurance limits. If other banks and financial institutions with whom we have banking relationships enter receivership or become insolvent in the future, we may be unable to access, and we may lose, some or all of our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments to the extent those funds are not insured or otherwise protected by the FDIC. If any of our non-U.S. based subsidiarieswere classified as a passive foreign investment company, there would be adverse tax consequences. If any of our non-U.S. based subsidiaries were classified as a passive foreign investment company or PFIC under section 1297 of the Internal Revenue Code, of 1986, as amended, for any taxable year during which a U.S. holder holds common stock, such U.S. holder generally would be taxed at ordinary income tax rates on any gain realized on the sale or exchange of the stock and on any excess distributions (including constructive distributions) received on the shares. Such U.S. holder could also be subject to a special interest charge with respect to any such gain or excess distribution. A non-U.S. entity would be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) on average, the percentage of its assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50% (determined on an average gross value basis). Whether an entity will, in fact, be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year depends on its assets and income over the course of the relevant taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty. There can be no assurance that any of our foreign based subsidiaries will not be classified as a PFIC in the future or the Internal Revenue Service will not challenge our determination concerning PFIC status for any prior period. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying, and managing risks associated with cybersecurity threats, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K, and have implemented processes for our systems taking guidance from recognized cybersecurity frameworks, such as U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cyber Security Framework (CSF) in an effort to mitigate risks. As part of these proactive measures, we maintain a Cybersecurity Incident Response and Escalation Process with defined roles, responsibilities, and reporting protocols that is periodically reviewed, tested, and updated. The Company has an Executive Cyber Response and Disclosure Committee (consisting of senior executives from the business, finance, operations and legal functions), which is responsible for determining what actions are necessary to respond to cybersecurity events, with input from the Chief Information Security Officer and other subject matter experts directly participating in incident response efforts. Identifying and assessing cybersecurity risk is integrated into our overall risk management systems and processes. Additionally, on a quarterly basis, our Audit Committee receives reports from the Chief Information Officer, Chief Information Security Officer, and other members of management. As part of its annual assessment, the Audit Committee evaluates significant risks related to our business including cybersecurity risks, and provides such information to our Board of Directors. Our Internal Audit Group also reviews our cybersecurity governance and controls annually. 41 Our cybersecurity risk management program encompasses periodic risk assessments, designed to help identify cybersecurity risks to our critical systems, information, services, and our broader enterprise IT environment. More specifically, an independent third-party performs a regular penetration test of Marvells IT infrastructure. In addition to our penetration testing, an independent third-party security firm is engaged to perform additional security controls testing and provide an independent report to our executive team. This external assessment provides us and our Audit Committee with a comprehensive evaluation of our security posture. Our information security team plays a pivotal role in managing our cybersecurity risk. They oversee security controls and orchestrate our response to incidentswhether they originate internally or from our vendors, suppliers or other third parties that we conduct business with. As part of our vendor selection process, we evaluate cybersecurity risks in appropriate situations. Furthermore, we conduct tabletop exercises periodically. These simulations allow us to test our response strategies across various business functions, allowing preparedness for real-world incidents. When risks are identified through our processes, we analyze their potential impact on the Company and assess the likelihood of occurrence. Our monitoring efforts help us to timely mitigate and remediate risks and incidents. As part of our commitment to security awareness, information security training is mandatory for every employee and contractor. This ongoing compliance program reinforces best practices and helps to foster a security-conscious culture. To safeguard our systems, we regularly install and update anti-malware and endpoint detection and response software across all IT-managed systems and workstations. These measures help detect and prevent malicious code from compromising our infrastructure. We also engage third-party providers to bolster our cybersecurity risk management and strategy. Some provide ongoing assistance, including threat monitoring, mitigation strategies, and updates on emerging trends. Others provide targeted expertise, such as security assessments and forensic analysis. Cybersecurity Governance Our Board of Directors considers cybersecurity and other information technology risk as part of its risk oversight function. The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports from our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) on our cybersecurity risks and risk management program.Our cybersecurity team, led by our CISO, who reports directly to our Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer, is responsible for assessing and managing risks from cybersecurity threats. The CISO and his team have primary responsibility for our overall cybersecurity risk management program and supervise both our internal cybersecurity personnel and any retained external cybersecurity experts. Our CISO has over 20 years of security experience managing global security organizations including architecture, operations, strategy, applications, infrastructure, support and execution. The information security team collectively have decades of relevant experience in the industry and many hold various cybersecurity certifications such as a Certified Information Systems Security Professional or Certified Information Security Manager. Further, we invest in regular, ongoing cybersecurity training for our team. The CISO reports such cybersecurity threats and incidents to the Audit Committee. These reports may be included in, or in addition to, his regular quarterly reports to the Audit Committee. In addition, pursuant to our internal procedures, in the event of a significant cybersecurity incident, members of senior management will report such threats and incidents in a timely manner directly to the Audit Committee and, when appropriate, to the full Board of Directors. We, like other technology companies operating in the current environment, have experienced cybersecurity incidents, but in the last three years we have not experienced an incident which has been determined to be material. For additional information regarding whether any risks from cybersecurity threats are reasonably likely to materially affect our company, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition, please refer to Cybersecurity risks could adversely affect our business and disrupt our operations in Item 1A, Risk Factors, in this annual report on Form 10-K. 42 Item 2. Properties The following table presents the approximate square footage of our significant owned and leased facilities as of February 3, 2024: (Square Feet) Locations Primary Use Owned Facilities Leased Facilities (1) United States Research and design, sales and marketing, administration and operations 983,000 439,000 India Research and design 313,000 Israel Research and design 291,000 Taiwan Research and design 94,000 Singapore Operations, and research and design 71,000 Canada Research and design 56,000 China Research and design, and sales and marketing 116,000 16,000 Total 1,099,000 1,280,000 (1)Lease terms expire in various years from 2024 through 2037; provided, however, that we have the option to extend certain leases past the current lease term. We have ceased-use lease facilities and subleased facilities of approximately 323,000 square feet in the United States that are excluded from the table above. We also lease smaller facilities in various international locations, which are occupied by administrative, sales, design and field application personnel. Based on the potential for future hiring, we believe that our current facilities in most locations will be adequate to meet our requirements at least through the next fiscal year. Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. For a discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, please see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors above. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 43 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our shares of common stock are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol MRVL. Shares of Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (our prior parent company) began trading under the MRVL symbol on June 27, 2000, upon completion of an initial public offering. As of April 20, 2021, shares of Marvell Technology, Inc. began trading under the symbol MRVL. As of March 6, 2024, the approximate number of record holders of our common stock was 563 (not including beneficial owners of stock held in street name). Stock Price Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return of our common stock with the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index (PHLX) since February 2, 2019 through February 3, 2024. The graph compares a $100 investment on February 2, 2019 in our common stock with a $100 investment on February 2, 2019 in each index and assumes that any dividends were reinvested. Stockholder returns over the indicated periods should not be considered indicative of future stock prices or stockholder returns. 2/2/2019 2/1/2020 1/30/2021 1/29/2022 1/28/2023 2/3/2024 Marvell Technology, Inc.** $ 100.00 $ 131.92 $ 284.34 $ 367.87 $ 246.73 $ 378.29 S&P 500 100.00 121.56 142.53 172.46 161.03 199.42 PHLX Semiconductor 100.00 141.76 232.45 269.10 243.43 363.11 **Information prior to April 20, 2021 is for Marvell Technology Group, Ltd. Dividends Our Board of Directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.06 per share payable to holders of our common stock in each quarter of fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022. As a result, we paid total cash dividends of $206.8 million in fiscal 2024, $204.4 million in fiscal 2023, and $191.0 million in fiscal 2022. 44 Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on the Companys common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, the Companys results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Delaware law and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. The Companys dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities Sales of unregistered equity securities made during fiscal 2022 were disclosed on our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended May 1, 2021; July 31, 2021; and October 30, 2021. In fiscal 2023, on December 2, 2022, the Company acquired all the equity interests of a private company for cash and stock. Pursuant to this transaction, 439,499 shares of Marvell common stock were issued, which shares are subject to forfeiture in some circumstances. The shares of Marvell common stock were issued in a private placement pursuant to Rule 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. There were no sales of unregistered equity securities during fiscal 2024. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities We resumed our stock repurchase program in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, which had been temporarily suspended in fiscal 2021 to preserve cash during the COVID-19 pandemic. The following table presents details of our stock repurchases during the three months ended February 3, 2024 (in millions, except per share data): Period (1) Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plan or Programs (2) October 29, 2023 to November 25, 2023 $ $ 399.5 November 26, 2023 to December 23, 2023 $ $ 399.5 December 24, 2023 to February 3, 2024 1.6 $ 62.72 1.6 $ 299.5 Total 1.6 $ 62.72 1.6 (1)The monthly periods presented above for the three months ended February 3, 2024, are based on our fiscal accounting periods which followed a 4-4-6 week fiscal accounting period for the three months ended February 3, 2024. (2)On November 17, 2016, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized a $1.0 billion stock repurchase plan with no fixed expiration. The stock repurchase program replaced in its entirety the prior $3.3 billion stock repurchase program. On October 16, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $700.0 million addition to the balance of our existing stock repurchase plan. Our existing stock repurchase program had approximately $304.0 million of repurchase authority remaining as of October 16, 2018 prior to the approved addition. We intend to effect stock repurchases in accordance with the conditions of Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act, but may also make repurchases in the open market outside of Rule 10b-18 or in privately negotiated transactions. The stock repurchase program will be subject to market conditions and other factors and does not obligate us to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of our common stock and the repurchase program may be extended, modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. Subsequent to fiscal year end, in March 2024, our Board of Directors increased the repurchase program mentioned above and authorized an additional $3.0 billion to that repurchase program. From August 2010 when our Board of Directors initially authorized a stock repurchase program through February 3, 2024, a total of 312.9 million shares have been repurchased under the Companys stock repurchase program for a total $4.5 billion in cash and $299.5 million remains available for future stock repurchases. Subsequent to fiscal year end, with the additional authorized $3.0 billion to the repurchase program, $3.3 billion remains available for future stock repurchases as of March 6, 2024. Our stock repurchase program is subject to market conditions, legal restrictions and regulations, and other factors, and does not obligate the Company to repurchase any dollar amount or number of shares of its common stock and the repurchase program may be extended, modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. Item 6. Reserved 45 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, including those discussed under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading supplier of data infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge. We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of high-performance standard and semi-custom products with core strengths in developing and scaling complex System-on-a-Chip architectures, integrating analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing functionality. Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise, as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling the data center, enterprise networking, carrier infrastructure, consumer, and automotive/industrial end markets. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Saturday closest to January 31. Accordingly, every fifth or sixth fiscal year will have a 53-week period. The additional week in a 53-week year is added to the fourth quarter, making such quarter consist of 14 weeks. Fiscal 2024 had a 53-week period. Fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 each had a 52-week period. Net revenue in fiscal 2024 was $5.5 billion and was 7.0% lower than net revenue of $5.9 billion in fiscal 2023. This was due to a decrease in sales from a majority of our end markets. Sales decreased from the data center end market by 8%, from the enterprise networking end market by 10%, from the consumer end market by 11%, and from the carrier infrastructure end market by 3%. The decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales from the automotive/industrial end market by 9% compared to fiscal 2023. During the second half of fiscal 2023, in response to a softening demand environment, customers started requesting to push out shipments and reschedule orders to manage their inventory. We have seen these inventory corrections continue to impact our storage customers, as well as enterprise networking and our wired carrier customers. In addition, we have continued to see low demand from our OEM customers in China. Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we have seen a strong increase in demand for our optical products, driven by AI applications. To secure capacity over the long term, we have entered into and expect to continue to enter into capacity reservation arrangements with certain foundries and partners for substrates. See Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We expect that the U.S. governments export restrictions on certain Chinese customers to continue to impact our revenue. Moreover, concerns that U.S. companies may not be reliable suppliers as a result of these and other actions has caused, and may in the future cause, some of our customers in China to amass large inventories of our products well in advance of need or cause some of our customers to replace our products in favor of products from other suppliers. Customers in China may also choose to develop indigenous solutions, as replacements for products that are subject to U.S. export controls. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business that we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customers products which use our solutions may also be impacted by export restrictions. See also Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors, including, but not limited to, the risk detailed under the caption Adverse changes in the political, regulatory and economic policies of governments in connection with trade with China and Chinese customers have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business. Restructuring. In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we initiated a restructuring plan to streamline our organization and optimize resources. The restructuring and other related charges recorded were $131.1 million for the year ended February 3, 2024. See Note 10 - Restructuring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 46 Capital Return Program. We remain committed to delivering stockholder value through our stock repurchase and dividend programs. Under the program authorized by our Board of Directors, we may repurchase shares of our common stock in the open-market or through privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our stock and the timing of such repurchases will depend upon market conditions, legal rules and regulations, and other corporate considerations, as determined by our management team. During the year ended February 3, 2024, we repurchased 2.5 million shares of our common stock for $150.0 million, including 0.8 million shares of our common stock repurchased for $50.0 million pursuant to a 10b5-1 trading plan. As of February 3, 2024, $299.5 million remained available for future stock repurchases. Subsequent to fiscal year end, in March 2024, our Board of Directors increased the repurchase program mentioned above and authorized an additional $3.0 billion to that repurchase program. See Note 11 Stockholders Equity in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. As of February 3, 2024, a total of 312.9 million shares have been repurchased since inception of our current and previous stock repurchase programs for an aggregate total of $4.5 billion in cash. We returned $356.8 million to stockholders in fiscal 2024 through $150.0 million in repurchases of shares of common stock and $206.8 million in cash dividends. Cash and Short-Term Investments. Our cash and cash equivalents were $950.8 million at February 3, 2024, which were $39.8 million higher than our balance at January 28, 2023 of $911.0 million. Sales and Customer Composition. We regularly monitor the creditworthiness of our customers and distributors and believe these distributors sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk. Most of our sales are made to customers with operations located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and a majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 70% of our net revenue in fiscal 2024, 75% of our net revenue in fiscal 2023 and 78% of our net revenue in fiscal 2022. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of many of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations. The development process for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For risks related to our sales cycle, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory or be unable to obtain the supplies or contract manufacturing capacity to meet demand which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, provisions for sales returns and allowances, inventory excess and obsolescence, goodwill and other intangible assets, business combinations, restructuring, income taxes, litigation, and other contingencies. We base our estimates of the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances when these carrying values are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and such differences could affect the results of operations reported in future periods. In the current macroeconomic environment, these estimates could require increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility. We continue to monitor and assess our estimates in light of developments, and as events continue to evolve and additional information becomes available, our estimates may change materially in future periods. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. For further information on our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 47 Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Under the revenue recognition standard, we apply the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied. We enter into contracts that may include various combinations of products and services that are capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. To date, the majority of the revenue has been generated by sales of products as revenue from services has been insignificant. Performance obligations associated with product sales transactions are generally satisfied when control passes to customers upon shipment. Accordingly, product revenue is recognized at a point in time when control of the asset is transferred to the customer. We recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a product to a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. For product revenue, the performance obligation is deemed to be the delivery of the product and therefore, the revenue is generally recognized upon shipment to customers, net of accruals for estimated sales returns and rebates. These estimates are based on historical returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. Actual returns could differ from these estimates. We account for rebates by recording reductions to revenue for rebates in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. The amount of these reductions is based upon the terms agreed to with the customer. Some of our sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing for price protection, price discounts and limited rights of stock rotation on products unsold by the distributors. Control passes to the distributor upon shipment, and terms and payment by our distributors is not contingent on resale of the product. Product revenue on sales made to distributors is recognized upon shipment, net of estimated variable consideration. Variable consideration primarily consists of price discounts, price protection, rebates, and stock rotation programs and is estimated based on a portfolio approach using the expected value method derived from historical data, current economic conditions, and contractual terms. Actual variable consideration could differ from these estimates. A portion of our net revenue is derived from sales through third-party logistics providers who maintain warehouses in close proximity to our customers facilities. Revenue from sales through these third-party logistics providers is not recognized until the product is pulled from stock by the customer. Our products are generally subject to warranty, which provides for the estimated future costs of replacement upon shipment of the product. We generally warrant that our products sold to our customers will conform to our approved specifications and be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use and conditions for one year. We may offer a longer warranty period in limited situations based on product type and negotiated warranty terms with certain customers. The warranty accrual is estimated primarily based on historical claims compared to historical revenues and assumes that we will have to replace products subject to a claim. From time to time, we become aware of specific warranty situations, and we record specific accruals to cover these exposures. Inventories. We value our inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value, cost being determined under the first-in, first-out method. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand and record a reduction to the total carrying value of our inventory for any difference between cost and estimated net realizable value of inventory that is determined to be excess, obsolete or unsellable inventory based primarily on our estimated forecast of product demand and production requirements. The estimate of future demand is compared to our inventory levels, including open purchase commitments, to determine the amount, if any, of obsolete or excess inventory. Demand for our products can fluctuate significantly from period to period. A significant decrease in demand could result in an increase in the amount of excess inventory on hand. In addition, our industry is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product development and rapid product obsolescence that could result in an increase in the amount of obsolete inventory quantities on hand. Additionally, our estimates of future product demand and judgement to determine excess inventory may prove to be inaccurate, in which case we may have understated or overstated the reduction to the total carrying value of our inventory for excess and obsolete inventory. In the future, if our inventory is determined to be overvalued, we would be required to recognize such costs in our cost of goods sold at the time of such determination. Likewise, if our inventory is determined to be undervalued, we may have over-reported our cost of goods sold in previous periods and would be required to recognize additional gross margin at the time the related inventory is sold. Therefore, although we make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and our results of operations. Accounting for Income Taxes. We estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the differing treatment of certain items for tax return and financial statement purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included in our consolidated balance sheets. 48 We recognize income taxes using an asset and liability approach. This approach requires the recognition of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. The measurement of current and deferred taxes is based on provisions of the enacted tax law and the effects of future changes in tax laws or rates are not anticipated. Evaluating the need for a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets requires judgment and analysis of all available positive and negative evidence, including recent earnings history and cumulative losses in recent years, reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies to determine whether all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Forming a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed is difficult when there is negative evidence such as cumulative losses in recent years. Using available evidence and judgment, we establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, when it is determined that it is more likely than not that they will not be realized. Valuation allowances have been provided primarily against U.S. federal and state research and development credits and certain acquired net operating losses and deferred tax assets of foreign subsidiaries. A change in the assessment of the realizability of deferred tax assets may materially impact our tax provision in the period in which a change of assessment occurs. Taxes due on Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (GILTI) inclusions in U.S. are recognized as a current period expense when incurred. As a multinational corporation, we conduct our business in many countries and are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions. The taxation of our business is subject to the application of various and sometimes conflicting tax laws and regulations as well as multinational tax conventions. Our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic distribution of our worldwide earnings or losses, the tax laws and regulations in various jurisdictions, the availability of tax incentives, tax credits and loss carryforwards, and the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies, which includes our estimates of the fair value of our intellectual property. The application of tax laws and regulations is subject to legal and factual interpretation, judgment and uncertainty. Tax laws themselves are subject to change as a result of changes in fiscal policy, changes in legislation, and the evolution of regulations and court rulings and tax audits. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcome of audits, and the amounts ultimately paid on resolution of audits could be materially different than the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore, could have a material impact on our tax provision, results of operations, and cash flows. Consequently, taxing authorities may impose tax assessments or judgments against us that could materially impact our tax liability and/or our effective income tax rate. We are subject to income tax audits by the respective tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We recognize the effect of income tax positions only if these positions are more likely than not to be sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized. Changes in judgment regarding the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions are reflected in the period in which the change occurs. We record interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves the inherent uncertainty associated with complex tax laws. We believe we have adequately provided for in our financial statements additional taxes that we estimate to be required to be paid as a result of such examinations. While we believe that we have adequately provided for all tax positions, amounts asserted by tax authorities could be greater or less than our accrued position. Unpaid tax liabilities, including the interest and penalties, are released pursuant to a final settlement with tax authorities, completion of audit or expiration of various statutes of limitations. The material jurisdictions in which we may be subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the world include China, India, Israel, Singapore, Germany, and the United States. The recognition and measurement of current taxes payable or refundable, and deferred tax assets and liabilities require that we make certain estimates and judgments. Changes to these estimates or judgments may have a material effect on our income tax provision in a future period. Long-Lived Assets and Intangible Assets. We assess the impairment of long-lived assets and intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long-lived assets may not be recoverable. Circumstances which could trigger a review include, but are not limited to the following: significant decreases in the market price of the asset; significant adverse changes in the business climate or legal factors; accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of the asset; current period cash flow or operating losses combined with a history of losses or a forecast of continuing losses associated with the use of the asset; and current expectation that the asset will more likely than not be sold or disposed of significantly before the end of its estimated useful life. 49 Whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount of long-lived assets and intangible assets may not be recoverable, we estimate the future cash flows, undiscounted and without interest charges, expected to be generated by the asset from its use or eventual disposition. If the sum of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Significant management judgment is required in the forecasts of future operating results that are used in the discounted cash flow method of valuation. These significant judgments may include future expected revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and other costs, discount rates and whether or not alternative uses are available for impacted long-lived assets. Goodwill. We record goodwill when the consideration paid for a business acquisition exceeds the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is measured and tested for impairment annually on the last business day of our fiscal fourth quarter, and more frequently, if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the fair value of the reporting unit may be below its carrying amount. We have identified that our business operates as a single operating segment and as a single reporting unit for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing. When testing goodwill for impairment, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or we may determine to proceed directly to the quantitative impairment test. Factors we consider important in the qualitative assessment which could trigger a goodwill impairment review include; significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; significant negative industry or economic trends; a significant decline in our stock price for a sustained period; and a significant change in our market capitalization relative to our net book value. If we assess qualitative factors and conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, or if we determine not to use the qualitative assessment, then a quantitative impairment test is performed. The quantitative impairment test requires comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. An impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is lower than its carrying value. We would record an impairment loss in the fiscal quarter in which an impairment determination is made. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. As of the last day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we performed our annual impairment assessment for testing goodwill. A quantitative assessment was performed. Based on our assessment, we determined there was no goodwill impairment. Business Combinations. We allocate the fair value of the purchase consideration of a business acquisition to the tangible assets, liabilities, and intangible assets acquired, including in-process research and development (IPR&D), based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. IPR&D is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When an IPR&D project is completed, the IPR&D is reclassified as an amortizable purchased intangible asset and amortized over the assets estimated useful life. Our valuation of acquired assets and assumed liabilities requires significant estimates, especially with respect to intangible assets. The valuation of intangible assets, in particular, requires that we use valuation techniques such as the income approach. The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which includes discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates: future expected revenue, expenses, capital expenditures and other costs, and discount rates. We estimate the fair value based upon assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Estimates associated with the accounting for acquisitions may change as additional information becomes available regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Acquisition-related expenses and related restructuring costs are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred. 50 Results of Operations Years Ended February 3, 2024 and January 28, 2023 The following table sets forth information derived from our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 58.4 49.5 Gross profit 41.6 50.5 Operating expenses: Research and development 34.4 30.1 Selling, general and administrative 15.1 14.3 Legal settlement 1.7 Restructuring related charges 2.4 0.4 Total operating expenses 51.9 46.5 Operating income (loss) (10.3) 4.0 Interest income 0.2 0.1 Interest expense (3.8) (2.9) Other income, net 0.2 0.2 Income (loss) before income taxes (13.7) 1.4 Provision for income taxes 3.2 4.2 Net loss (16.9) % (2.8) % Net Revenue Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentage) Net revenue $ 5,507.7 $ 5,919.6 (7.0) % Our net revenue for fiscal 2024 decreased by $411.9 million compared to net revenue for fiscal 2023. This was due to a decrease in sales from a majority of our end markets. Sales decreased from the data center end market by 8%, from the enterprise networking end market by 10%, from the consumer end market by 11%, and from the carrier infrastructure end market by 3%. The decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales from the automotive/industrial end market by 9% compared to fiscal 2023. The overall decrease in net revenue of 7% for fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by lower unit shipments related to storage products, partially offset by higher average selling prices for certain products as well as an increase in demand for our optical products, driven by AI applications. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Cost of goods sold $ 3,214.1 $ 2,932.1 9.6 % % of net revenue 58.4 % 49.5 % Gross profit $ 2,293.6 $ 2,987.5 (23.2) % % of net revenue 41.6 % 50.5 % 51 Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue increased for fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023, which includes charges of $251.0 million for product related claim matters that were fully resolved in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, as well as a shift in product mix. Refer to Note 6 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the product related claim matters. As a result, gross margin for fiscal 2024 decreased 8.9 percentage points compared to fiscal 2023. Research and Development Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Research and development $ 1,896.2 $ 1,784.3 6.3 % % of net revenue 34.4 % 30.1 % Research and development expense increased by $111.9 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily due to $57.4 million of higher engineering design costs and $45.6 million of higher employee compensation related costs. Selling, General and Administrative Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative $ 834.0 $ 843.6 (1.1) % % of net revenue 15.1 % 14.3 % Selling, general and administrative expense was relatively flat in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Stock-Based Compensation Expense Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 (in millions) Cost of goods sold $ 49.1 $ 43.3 Research and development 411.1 372.4 Selling, general and administrative 149.6 136.7 Total stock-based compensation $ 609.8 $ 552.4 Stock-based compensation expense increased by $57.4 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Stock-based compensation under research and development, selling, general and administrative, and cost of goods sold increased by $38.7 million, $12.9 million, and $5.8 million, respectively. The increase was primarily due to an increase in equity awards granted in fiscal 2024 as compared to prior years, as well as an increase in expense associated with our employee stock purchase plan. Legal Settlement Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Legal settlement $ $ 100.0 * % of net revenue % 1.7 % *Not meaningful We recorded a charge of $100.0 million in fiscal 2023 related to the settlement of a contractual dispute. Refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 52 Restructuring Related Charges Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 (in millions) Restructuring related charges $ 131.1 $ 21.6 We recorded total restructuring related charges of $131.1 million in fiscal 2024 as a result of our restructuring plan to streamline our organization and optimize resources. Refer to Note 10 Restructuring in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Interest Income Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Interest income $ 8.8 $ 5.3 66.0 % % of net revenue 0.2 % 0.1 % Interest income increased by $3.5 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 due to higher interest rates on our invested cash. Interest Expense Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Interest expense $ (211.7) $ (170.6) 24.1 % % of net revenue (3.8) % (2.9) % Interest expense increased by $41.1 million in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily due to higher interest expense associated with the 2024 and 2026 Term Loans, as well as interest expense associated with the 2029 and 2033 Senior Notes issued during the third quarter of fiscal 2024. Refer to Note 4 Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Other Income, net Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Other income, net $ 11.9 $ 12.4 (4.0)% % of net revenue 0.2 % 0.2 % Other income, net was relatively flat in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended February 3, 2024 January 28, 2023 % Change in 2024 (in millions, except percentage) Provision for income taxes $ 174.7 $ 248.6 (29.7) % 53 The income tax expense for fiscal 2024 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% as a result of foreign income inclusions in the U.S., a portion of our earnings or losses being taxed or benefited at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate, research and development credit generation, and disallowed deductions related to non-deductible compensation. Further, during fiscal 2024, guidance was issued by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service in connection with the capitalization of research and development expenditures. As a result of this guidance, certain costs are currently deductible rather than capitalizable, which resulted in a reduction to our income tax payable and an increase in our deferred tax assets for which we maintain a full valuation allowance. The income tax expense for fiscal 2023 differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to the remeasurement of Singapore deferred taxes upon extension of our tax incentive in Singapore, tax benefits attributable to reduction in tax reserves as a result of settled income tax audits in combination with the lapsing of statute of limitations, offset by foreign income inclusions in the U.S., and a tax expense related to the recapture of Israel corporate income taxes. The income tax expense for fiscal 2023 is also impacted by a substantial portion of our earnings, or in some cases, losses being taxed or benefited at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate, stock compensation tax benefits, and disallowed deductions related to non-deductible compensation. Our provision for incomes taxes may be affected by changes in the geographic mix of earnings with different applicable tax rates, acquisitions, changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of income tax audits, the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws and regulations. It is also possible that significant negative evidence may become available that causes us to conclude that a valuation allowance is needed on certain of our deferred tax assets, which would adversely affect our income tax provision in the period of such change in judgment. Additionally, please see the information in Item 1A. Risk Factors under the caption Changes in existing taxation benefits, tax rules or tax practices may adversely affect our financial results. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2023 includes a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended January 29, 2022 and year-to-year comparisons between the fiscal years ended January 28, 2023 and January 29, 2022 in Item 7 of Part II, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal source of liquidity as of February 3, 2024 consisted of approximately $950.8 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $744.1 million was held by subsidiaries outside of the United States. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by, among other things, reviewing available funds held by our foreign subsidiaries and the cost effectiveness by which those funds can be accessed in the United States. See Note 13 Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In December 2020, to fund the Inphi acquisition, we executed the 2024 and 2026 Term Loan Agreement to obtain the 2024 and 2026 Term Loans. On April 14, 2023, we entered into an amendment to the 2024 and 2026 Term Loan Agreement. The amendment modifies the existing agreement to, among other things, adopt Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) interest rates and conform the maximum leverage ratio financial covenant with the amended and restated revolving credit agreement. During the quarter ended October 28, 2023, we repaid in full the 3-Year Tranche Loan, due on April 19, 2024 (2024 Term Loan), which had a remaining principal of $735.0 million. For the year ended February 3, 2024, we repaid $87.5 million of the principal outstanding of the 5-Year Tranche Loan (2026 Term Loan). As of February 3, 2024, we had $700.0 million borrowings outstanding under the 2026 Term Loan. In December 2020, we also executed a debt agreement to obtain a $750.0 million revolving credit facility. On April 14, 2023, we entered into an agreement to amend and restate the credit facility to increase the borrowing capacity to $1.0 billion (as so amended and restated, the 2023 Revolving Credit Facility). The 2023 Revolving Credit Facility has a 5-year term and a stated floating interest rate which equates to an adjusted term SOFR plus an applicable margin. During the quarter ended April 29, 2023, we drew down $200.0 million on the 2023 Revolving Credit Facility. During the quarter ended July 29, 2023, the Company drew down $50.0 million on the 2023 Revolving Credit Facility and repaid $50.0 million in the same quarter. During the quarter ended October 28, 2023, we repaid the outstanding 2023 Revolving Credit Facility of $200.0 million. Further, we drew down an additional $50.0 million on the 2023 Revolving Credit Facility and repaid $50.0 million in the same quarter. As of February 3, 2024, the 2023 Revolving Credit Facility is undrawn and will be available for draw down through April 14, 2028. During the quarter ended July 29, 2023, the MTI 2023 Notes and MTG 2023 Notes with aggregate principal of $500.0 million matured on June 22, 2023 and was repaid. 54 On September 18, 2023, we completed a debt offering and issued (i) $500.0 million of Senior Notes with a 5.5-year term due in 2029 (2029 Senior Notes) and (ii) $500.0 million of Senior Notes with a 10-year term due in 2033 (2033 Senior Notes). As of February 3, 2024, we had total borrowings outstanding of $4.2 billion, consisting of $3.5 billion of senior notes outstanding and $700.0 million outstanding under the 2026 Term Loan. For a description of our contractual obligations including debt, leases, and purchase commitments, see Note 4 Debt, Note 5 Leases, and Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, see Note 13 Income Taxes regarding tax related contingencies and uncertain tax positions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We generally expect to satisfy these commitments with cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities. We may elect to factor trade accounts receivable from time to time as part of our overall liquidity and working capital management strategy. During the year ended February 3, 2024, we generated cash from operations from the sale of certain trade accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to a third-party financial institution pursuant to a factoring arrangement. See Note 16 - Supplemental Financial Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations, and funds from our 2023 Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, any declared dividends, repurchases of our common stock and commitments (including those discussed in Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) for at least the next twelve months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, all of which are subject to uncertainty. To the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash generated by operations, and funds available under our 2023 Revolving Credit Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current stockholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common stock. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common stock and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our stockholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Delaware law, U.S. securities laws and regulations, market conditions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase stock at all or in any particular amounts. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion for fiscal 2024 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $1.3 billion for fiscal 2023. We had a net loss of $933.4 million adjusted for the following non-cash items: amortization of acquired intangible assets of $1.1 billion, stock-based compensation expense of $609.8 million, depreciation and amortization of $299.8 million, deferred income tax expense of $150.8 million, restructuring related impairment charges of $32.9 million, amortization of deferred debt issuance costs and debt discounts of $10.7 million, and $44.2 million net loss from other non-cash items. Cash inflow from working capital of $57.8 million for fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by a decrease in accounts receivable, and a decrease in inventories, partially offset by cash outflows due to an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a decrease in accounts payable. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to timing of billing and collections and the impact of factoring of receivables. The decrease in inventory was a result of utilizing previously built buffers. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to prepayments on supply capacity reservation agreements net of refunds, and an increase in ship and debit reserve. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. 55 Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 billion for fiscal 2023 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $819.3 million for fiscal 2022. We had a net loss of $163.5 million adjusted for the following non-cash items: amortization of acquired intangible assets of $1.1 billion, stock-based compensation expense of $552.4 million, depreciation and amortization of $304.9 million, deferred income tax expense of $50.4 million, amortization of inventory fair value adjustment associated with Innovium acquisition of $38.7 million, amortization of deferred debt issuance costs and debt discounts of $10.3 million, restructuring related impairment charges of $5.6 million, and $52.4 million net loss from other non-cash items. Cash outflow from working capital of $649.8 million for fiscal 2023 was primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable, an increase in inventories, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a decrease in accounts payable partially offset by cash inflows due to an increase in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities, and an increase in accrued employee compensation. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to increase in sales, as well as changes to the timing of shipments due to evolving supply chain dynamics. We increased inventory in order to better support unfulfilled backlog, new product ramps and the impact from inventory correction late in the year. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to prepayments on supply capacity reservation agreements and an increase in ship and debit reserve. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The increase in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities was primarily due to accruals relating to settlement of contractual disputes and an increase in ship and debit claim reserve due to price increases and stock replenishment. The increase in accrued employee compensation was due to increases in our bonus accrual and in employee contributions to the employee stock purchase plan, net of payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $350.5 million in fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by the purchases of property and equipment of $336.3 million, and purchases of technology licenses of $13.9 million. Net cash used in investing activities of $328.4 million in fiscal 2023 was primarily driven by the purchases of property and equipment of $206.2 million, net cash consideration for business acquisitions of $112.3 million, and purchases of technology licenses of $11.1 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $980.2 million in fiscal 2024 was primarily attributable to $1.6 billion repayment of debt principal, $223.7 million for withholding tax paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement, $206.8 million payment for our quarterly dividends, $150.3 million payments for technology license obligations, and $150.0 million repurchases of common stock. These outflows were partially offset by $1.3 billion proceeds from issuance of debt, and $99.2 million proceeds from the issuance of our common stock under our equity incentive plans. Net cash used in financing activities of $662.9 million in fiscal 2023 was primarily attributable to $265.6 million repayment of debt principal, $227.6 million for withholding tax paid on behalf of employees for net share settlement, $204.4 million payment for our quarterly dividends, $142.5 million payments for technology license obligations, and $115.0 million repurchases of common stock. These outflows were partially offset by proceeds from issuance of debt of $200.0 million, and $91.3 million proceeds from the issuance of our common stock under our equity incentive plans. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Related Party Transactions None.