Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex System-on-a-Chip (SoC) devices, leveraging our technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. We also develop integrated hardware platforms along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for storage, networking and connectivity. We were incorporated in Bermuda in January 1995. Our registered and mailing address is Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda, and our telephone number there is (441) 296-6395. The address of our U.S. operating subsidiary is Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., 5488 Marvell Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number there is (408) 222-2500. We also have operations in many countries, including China, India, Israel, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan and Vietnam. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. Available Information Our website address is located at www.marvell.com. The information contained on our website does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is not incorporated by reference herein. We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Our Markets and Products Over the last several years, we have transitioned from a supplier of stand-alone semiconductor components to a supplier of fully integrated platform solutions. Our platform solutions contain multiple intellectual property components in integrated hardware, along with software that incorporates digital, analog and mixed-signal computing and communication technologies, designed and configured to provide an optimized solution. Our solutions have become increasingly integrated, with more and more components resulting in an all-in-one solution for a given customers end product. The demand for such highly integrated platform solutions is generally driven by technological changes and anticipation of the future needs of device manufacturers and end users, including enterprises, campus and service provider networks and, to an increasing extent, data center providers. A device manufacturer may require technologies leveraged from one end market product into products for other end markets, integrating components and technologies traditionally associated with one end market with components and technologies from another end market. The integration of these various technologies onto a single piece of silicon is referred to as SoC. In addition, software has become increasingly important to our business over the last several years and we believe software will become even more relevant as the market expects hardware and software to be delivered as an integrated solution offering. On-chip software, which acts as the driver for the functionality of the chip, has always been a critical part of our business. However, the software and application-level software that we deliver with our products has become significantly more complex as the range of uses and the needs has increased. For example, a solution that we develop for storage or networking can contain software that has a range of functionalities built in. Alternatively, our solution can allow our customers to deploy their operative systems on top of our chip, as well as deploy their application software on top of our SoC. Our current product offerings are primarily in three broad product groups: storage, networking and connectivity. In storage, we are a market leader in data storage controller solutions spanning consumer, mobile, desktop and enterprise markets. Our storage solutions enable customers to engineer high-volume products for hard disk drives and solid state drives. Our networking products address end markets in cloud, enterprise, small and medium business and service provider networks. Our connectivity products address end markets in consumer, enterprise, desktop, service provider networks and automotive. Our storage, networking and connectivity products power cutting-edge networks and data centers around the world. The networking & connectivity product groups were previously referred to as smart networked devices and solutions. 2 In connection with the November 2016 announcement of our plan to restructure our operations to refocus our research and development, increase operational efficiency and improve profitability, we also plan to divest certain businesses and we began an active program to locate buyers for several businesses. As of January 28, 2017, two of these businesses were classified as discontinued operations. As required, we retrospectively recast our consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets for all periods presented to reflect these businesses as discontinued operations. Unless noted otherwise, the following discussion refers to our continuing operations. Our net revenue by product group for the last three fiscal years is as follows: Year Ended January 28, 2017 January 30, 2016 January 31, 2015 (in millions, except for percentages) Storage $ 1,158 50 % $ 1,201 45 % $ 1,745 48 % Networking 590 25 % 532 20 % 661 18 % Connectivity 318 14 % 441 17 % 530 15 % Other 252 11 % 475 18 % 701 19 % Total $ 2,318 $ 2,649 $ 3,637 Storage Hard Disk Drive Controllers Hard disk drive ("HDD") controllers provide high-performance input/output (I/O) interface control between the HDD and the host system. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including SATA (Serial Advanced Technology Attachment) and SAS (Serial Attached SCSI), which support the complete range of enterprise, desktop and mobile HDDs. We are a leading HDD controller supplier and currently supply products to all of the major hard drive manufacturers. Our HDD controllers with advanced technology for HDDs provide a technological advantage that enable a higher level of data storage on smaller form factors and higher volumetric densities. Our advanced HDD controller SoCs are designed incorporating the latest Marvell IPs using leading advanced semiconductor process nodes. Solid-State Drive Controllers Our solid-state- drive ("SSD") controller SoCs are targeted at the fast growing market for flash-based storage systems, for the cloud, enterprise, consumer and mobile computing markets. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including SAS, SATA, peripheral component interconnect express ("PCIe"), and non-volatile memory express ("NVMe"). We are a leading supplier of SSD controllers across a range of customers and market segments. Our advanced SSD controller SoCs incorporate the latest Marvell technology using leading advanced process nodes. Our SSD controllers are complemented by our fully featured SDK (software development kit) and FTK (Full Turnkey software solutions.) HDD Components In fiscal 2017, Marvell re-entered the HDD preamps business. We are working with a number of customers in developing and qualifying our components. Enterprise Storage Solutions We develop software-enabled silicon solutions for enterprise, data centers and cloud computing businesses. The solutions include SATA port multipliers, bridges, SATA, SAS and NVMe redundant array of independent disk controllers and converged storage processors. Networking Ethernet Solutions Ethernet connectivity is pervasive throughout networking infrastructures built for enterprise, small and medium business, home office, service provider and data centers. Our Ethernet solutions address a wide variety of end-customer products for those market spaces, from small, cost-effective appliances to large, high-performance modular solutions. Our Ethernet products include: 3 A broad selection of Ethernet switches with market-optimized innovative features, such as advanced tunneling and routing, high throughput forwarding and packet processing that make networks more effective at delivering content. Our Ethernet switch product portfolio ranges from low-power, five-port switches to highly integrated, multi-terabit Ethernet SoC devices that can be interconnected to form massive network solutions; A broad selection of Ethernet physical-layer transceivers for both fiber and copper interconnect with advanced power management, link security and time synchronization features that complement our Ethernet switch and embedded communication processors; and A family of single-chip network interface devices offered in ultra-small form factor with low-power consumption and targeted for client-server network interface cards. Embedded Communication Processors Our range of SoC-embedded communication processors provide multi-core ARM processor architecture optimized to consume low power while simultaneously delivering high-performance per watt. They provide a combination of I/O peripherals, including Ethernet, SATA, SAS, PCIe and universal serial bus and are ideally suited for a range of end-customer networking applications, such as home gateways, networked storage, control plane applications, routers, switches and wireless access points and base stations. Connectivity We offer a broad portfolio of connectivity solutions, including Wi-Fi, and Wi-Fi/Bluetooth integrated SOCs. These products are integrated into a wide variety of end devices, such as enterprise access points, home gateways, multimedia devices, gaming, printers, automotive infotainment and telematics units, and smart industrial devices. Our products are well-positioned to deliver low-power and high-performance functionality with cutting-edge technologies, and to lead the fast-paced developments of Wi-Fi 802.11 and Bluetooth standards. Our connectivity product portfolio includes a single stream 1x1, as well as multi-stream 2x2 and 4x4 multiple input multiple output devices. We deliver both the radio control and processing as well as the RF components for a complete customer solution. Other Products Printing Solutions & Custom ASIC Our printer SoC products power many of todays laser and ink printers and multi-function peripherals. These SoCs include a family of printer-specific standard products as well as full-custom application-specific integrated circuits. Communications and Application Processors While we exited the mobile market in September 2015, several customers continue to ship our LTE communications processors. Our separate line of application processors is targeted for non-mobile applications and deliver leading-edge performance for todays embedded and Internet of Things solutions. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We have determined that we operate in one reportable segment: the design, development and sale of integrated circuits. For information regarding our revenue by geographic area, and property and equipment by geographic area, please see Note 13 Segment and Geographic Information in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks associated with our international operations. Customers, Sales and Marketing Our target customers are original equipment manufacturers and original design manufacturers, both of which design and manufacture end market devices. Our sales force is strategically aligned along key customer lines in order to offer fully integrated platforms to our customers. In this way, we believe we can more effectively offer a broader set of content into our key customers end products, without having multiple product groups separately engage the same customer. We complement and support our direct sales force with manufacturers representatives for our products in North America, Europe and Asia. In addition, we have distributors who support our sales and marketing activities in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also use third-party logistics providers who maintain warehouses in close proximity to our customers facilities. We expect that a significant percentage of our sales will continue to come from direct sales to key customers. We use field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems designs that incorporate our products. Our marketing team works in conjunction with our field sales and application engineering force, and is organized around our product groups. 4 Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Net revenue attributable to significant customers whose revenues as a percentage of net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenues is presented in the following table: Year Ended January 28, 2017 January 30, 2016 January 31, 2015 Customer: Western Digital* 21 % 19 % 20 % Toshiba 13 % **% **% Seagate 9 % 14 % 13 % Wintech 10 % **% 11 % * The percentage of net revenues reported for Western Digital for fiscal year 2017 includes net revenue of HGST and SanDisk that became subsidiaries of Western Digital in late fiscal 2016. ** Less than 10% of net revenue A significant number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronics products, including gaming devices and personal computers, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Seasonality, including holiday and back to school buying trends, may at times negatively impact our results in the first and fourth quarter, and positively impact our results in the second and third quarter of our fiscal years. In addition, the timing of new product introductions by our customers may cause variations in our quarterly revenues, which may not be indicative of future trends. Inventory and Working Capital We place firm orders for products with our suppliers generally up to 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to an order for the product. These lead times typically change based on the current capacity at the foundries. We often maintain substantial inventories of our products because the semiconductor industry is characterized by short lead time orders and quick delivery schedules. In addition, increased use of hubs managed by third-party logistics providers has resulted in a higher number of inventory locations and higher overall inventory levels. Backlog We do not believe that backlog is a meaningful or reliable indicator for future demand, due to the following: an industry practice that allows customers to cancel or change orders prior to the scheduled shipment dates; an increasing portion of our revenue comes from products shipped to customers using third-party logistics providers, or hubs wherein the product can be pulled at any time by the customer and is therefore never reflected in backlog; and scheduled future shipments include shipments to distributors for which we do not recognize revenue until the products are sold to end customers. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to introduce improvements to our existing products and to develop new products that deliver cost-effective solutions for both existing and new markets. Our research and development efforts are directed largely to the development of high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded microprocessor integrated circuits with the smallest die size and lowest power. We devote a significant portion of our resources to expanding our product portfolio based on a broad intellectual property portfolio with designs that enable high-performance, reliable communications over a variety of physical transmission media. We are also focused on incorporating functions currently provided by stand-alone integrated circuits into our integrated platform solutions to reduce our customers overall system costs. We have assembled a core team of engineers who have experience in the areas of mixed-signal circuit design, digital signal processing, embedded microprocessors, complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) technology and system-level architectures. We have invested and will continue to invest a significant amount of funds for research and development. Our research and development expense was $0.8 billion , $1.0 billion and $1.1 billion in fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. See our discussion of research and development expenses in Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Manufacturing 5 Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facility. This allows us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We currently outsource a large percentage of our integrated circuit manufacturing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. We also utilize United Microelectronics Corporation, with the remaining manufacturing outsourced to other foundries located primarily in Asia. We work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. We closely monitor foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced manufacturing processes. Because finer manufacturing processes lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We outsource all product packaging and testing requirements for our products in production to several assembly and test subcontractors primarily located in China, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan. Environmental Management We believe that our products comply with the current Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and the Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals SVHC Substances Directive. In addition, each of our manufacturing subcontractors complies with ISO 14001:2004, the international standard related to environmental management. We are also working to establish a conflict-free supply chain, including ethical sourcing of certain minerals for our products. Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements and licenses to protect our intellectual property. As of January 28, 2017, we have approximately 8,700 U.S. and foreign patents issued and approximately 2,000 U.S. and foreign patent applications pending on various aspects of our technology. While we believe the duration of of our patents generally covers the expected lives of our products, our patents may not collectively or individually cover every feature on innovation in our product. In addition, our efforts may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property from misappropriation or infringement. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the risks associated with our patents and intellectual property. We have expended and will continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products or in connection with a pending or future claim or action asserted against us. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future be sued by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the risks associated with patent litigation matters. Competition The markets for our products, particularly in networking and connectivity, are intensely competitive, and are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and pricing 6 pressures. Competition has intensified as a result of the increasing demand for higher levels of performance and integration and smaller process geometries. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors continue to strengthen the depth and breadth of their product offerings, either through in-house development or by acquiring existing technology. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: The performance, features, quality and price of our products; The timing and success of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; Emergence, rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards; Our ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity with the appropriate technological capability; and The number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Our major competitors for our products include Broadcom Limited, Cavium, Inc., MediaTek, Inc., QUALCOMM, Inc., Quantenna Communications Inc. and Silicon Motion Technology Corporation. We expect increased competition in the future from emerging or established companies, or alliances among competitors, customers or other third parties, any of which could acquire significant market share. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of competitive risks associated with our business. Historically, average unit selling prices in the integrated circuit industry in general, and for our products in particular, have decreased over the life of a particular product. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to introduce innovative new products and reduce the cost of our products. To accomplish this, we intend to continue to implement design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of pricing risks. Employees As of January 28, 2017, we had a total of 4,617 employees. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries and end markets. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Factors That May Affect Future Results Our financial condition and results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: changes in general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor industry; our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; severe financial hardship or bankruptcy of one or more of our major customers; our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products; our ability to successfully restructure our operations within our anticipated timeframe announced in November 2016 and with our anticipated savings; 7 the effects of any potential acquisitions, divestitures or significant investments; any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business; cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; gain or loss of a design win or key customer; seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated; failure to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; failure to protect our intellectual property; impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California and where our third party suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; and our ability to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce, especially managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. During fiscal 2017, our common shares traded as low as $8.32 and as high as $15.45 per share. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, amongst other factors, our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, including efforts such as our restructuring announced in November 2016, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. For example, in November 2016, we announced a plan to restructure our operations to refocus our research and development, increase operational efficiency and improve profitability. We expect that the restructuring actions, which include discontinuing investment in specific research and development programs, streamlining engineering processes, and consolidating research and development sites, will eliminate approximately 900 positions worldwide. In addition, we are in the process of divesting certain businesses. These actions are expected to be fully executed by the end of October 2017. Our ability to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products, or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, is critical to our future success. While we expect to realize efficiencies from these actions, these activities might not produce the full efficiency and cost reduction benefits we expect. Further, such benefits might be realized later than expected, and the ongoing costs of implementing these measures might be greater than anticipated. If these measures are not successful or sustainable, we might undertake additional realignment and cost reduction efforts, which could result in future charges. In the event that we are unable to execute on our restructuring plan to the extent currently anticipated, our ability to meet competitive challenges or exploit key market opportunities could be materially and adversely affected. Any potential future acquisitions, strategic investments, divestitures, mergers or joint ventures may subject us to significant risks, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term strategy may include identifying and acquiring, investing in or merging with suitable candidates on acceptable terms, or divesting of certain business lines or activities. In particular, over time, we may acquire, make investments in, or merge with providers of product offerings that complement our business or may terminate such activities. Mergers, acquisitions and divestitures include a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including but not limited to: 8 diversion of management attention from running our existing business; increased expenses, including but not limited to legal, administrative and compensation expenses related to newly hired or terminated employees; increased costs to integrate or, in the case of a divestiture, separate the technology, personnel, customer base and business practices of the acquired or divested business or assets; potential exposure to material liabilities not discovered in the due diligence process; potential adverse effects on reported operating results due to possible write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with acquisitions; potential damage to customer relationships or loss of synergies in the case of divestitures; and unavailability of acquisition financing on reasonable terms or at all. Any acquired business, technology, service or product could significantly under-perform relative to our expectations and may not achieve the benefits we expect from possible acquisitions. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may have difficulty selling on acceptable terms in a timely manner. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expense, or we may sell a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain regulatory or other approvals; IP disputes or other litigation; or difficulties obtaining financing for the transaction. For all these reasons, our pursuit of an acquisition, investment, divestiture, merger or joint venture could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. We operate in intensely competitive markets, and our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry, and specifically the storage, networking and connectivity markets, are extremely competitive. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we are facing, and expect we will continue to face, significant competition in the networking market. Additionally, customer expectations and requirements have been evolving rapidly. For example, customers now expect us to provide turnkey solutions and commit to future roadmaps that have technical risks. Some of our competitors may be better situated to meet changing customer needs and secure design wins. Increasing competition in the markets in which we operate may negatively impact our revenues and gross margins. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the data communication and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to 9 compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. As the technology inflections happen, our competitors may get ahead of us and negatively impact our market share. In addition, the semiconductor industry has experienced increased consolidation over the past several years. For example, Avago Technologies Limited (now Broadcom Limited (Broadcom)) acquired Broadcom Corporation in February 2016 and LSI Corporation in May 2014; Intel acquired Altera Corporation in December 2015; and NXP Semiconductors acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. in December 2015. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage and harm our results of operations. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The HDD industry is intensely competitive and technology inflections are happening rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers participate in this industry. HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industrys participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. In addition, the HDD industry has experienced significant consolidation. Consolidation among our customers could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. If we are unable to leverage our technology and customer relationships, we may not capitalize on the increased opportunities for our products within the combined company. Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products and personal computing devices could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as SSD and other storage technologies are a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure that our overall business will not be adversely affected if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. Additionally, we depend on a few customers for our SSD controllers and as such, the loss of any SSD controller customer or a significant reduction in sales we make to them may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Unlike in the HDD industry, SSD customers may develop their own controllers, which could pose a challenge to our market share in the SSD space. Our sales are concentrated in a few large customers. If we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, or if any of these customers experience significant financial difficulties, our revenues may decrease substantially and our results of operations and financial condition may be harmed. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 34% and 33% of our net revenue for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2016, respectively. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future, primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and natural disasters or other issues that may divert a customers operations. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent one or more of our large customers experience significant financial difficulty, bankruptcy or insolvency, this could have a material adverse effect on our sales and our ability to collect on receivables, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. For example, Toshiba Corporation has recently announced significant financial difficulties not directly related to their semiconductor business but which may have an adverse effect on its overall financial condition or result in a divestiture of the semiconductor portion of its business that purchases our products. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: 10 a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which allows our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us; customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products; customers may develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties; customers may be subject to severe business disruptions, including, but not limited to, those driven by financial instability; or customers may consolidate (for example, Western Digital acquired SanDisk in 2017, and Toshiba Corporation has announced an intent to sell a portion of its semiconductor business), which could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders. In addition, if regulatory activity, such as enforcement of U.S. export control and sanctions laws, were to materially limit our ability to makes sales to any of our significant customers, it could harm our results of operations, reputation and financial condition. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products in a timely and cost-effective manner. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. See also, We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. Our ability to adapt to changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully and in a timely manner. Even if we and our customers introduce new and enhanced products to the market, those products may not achieve market acceptance. Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in average selling prices of products over time and shifts in our product mix. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high-volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. In addition, our more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production expenses. Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and other means. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain price concessions to certain customers, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will continue to have to reduce prices of existing products in the future. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. We may enter new markets in which a significant amount of competition exists, and this may require us to sell our products with lower gross margins than we earn in our established businesses. If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result may harm our financial results. 11 Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan, and other sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in China, Singapore and Taiwan. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including, for example, earthquakes (particularly in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim close to fault lines), tsunamis or typhoons, or by political, social or economic instability. In the case of such an event, our revenues, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, there are limited numbers of alternative foundries and identifying and implementing alternative manufacturing facilities would be time consuming. As a result, if we needed to implement alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant expenses and delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. In particular, as we and others in our industry transition to smaller geometries, our manufacturing partners may be supply constrained or may charge premiums for these advanced technologies, which may harm our business or results of operations. See also, We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. Moreover, if any of our third-party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. While we attempt to create multiple sources for our products, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it would be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in our revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and to mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as nonrefundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, or contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to 12 us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. Uncertain Yields and Quality The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our technology is transitioning from planar to FINFET transistors which is a new technology. This transition may result in longer qualification cycles and lower yields. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and lower manufacturing yields, which are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. In addition, we may face lower manufacturing yields and reduced quality in the process of ramping up and diversifying our manufacturing partners. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems with our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial performance and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages in connection with product liability claims, which would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects could result in significant costs. See also, Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to directly control product delivery schedules and quality assurance, which could result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments or increase costs. Commodity Prices We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, including gold and copper, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot ensure that the foundries we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. 13 From time to time, we have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. Despite our testing procedures, we cannot ensure that errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future. Such errors could result in: loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products; material recall and replacement costs; delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenues; writing down the inventory of defective products; the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts; our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury; and damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, the process of identifying a recalled product in devices that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources. We may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field, which may cause us to incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and further reputational harm. Any of these problems could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We have recently experienced a significant transition at the executive management level. If our new executive team is unable to engage and align mid-management or attract and retain the key talent needed for us to timely achieve our business objectives, our business and results of operations could be harmed. In April 2016, our co-founders, Dr. Sehat Sutardja and Ms. Weili Dai, left the company. Shortly thereafter, our board of directors was reconstituted in connection with our agreement with Starboard Value LLC and the companys executive management team subsequently went through a significant transition, including the hiring of a new President and CEO, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Human Resources Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Marketing and appointment of new leaders for our storage, and networking and connectivity groups, and our corporate development organization. At the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the longest tenured member of our executive team has been employed by the company for approximately ten months. While the individual members of our executive management team each have significant industry-related experience, they previously have not worked together as a group and it will take time for them to become an integrated management team. Delays in the integration of our management team could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the marketplace for senior executive management candidates is very competitive and limited, particularly in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based. Our growth may be adversely impacted if we are unable to attract and retain such key employees. Turnover of senior management can adversely impact our stock price, our results of operations and our client relationships, and has made recruiting for future management positions more difficult. Competition for senior leadership may increase our compensation expenses, which may negatively affect our profitability. We depend on highly skilled engineering and sales and marketing personnel to support our business operations. If we are unable to retain our current personnel or attract additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense, both in the Silicon Valley where our U.S. operations are based and in global markets in which we operate. Our inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel, could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our products. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel and the loss of such personnel could harm our business, as their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. In addition, the impact on employee morale experienced in connection with our recent restructuring efforts, which eliminated approximately 900 jobs worldwide, could make it more difficult for us to add to our workforce when needed due to speculation regarding our future restructuring activities. 14 In addition, if recently introduced federal legislation relating to proposed changes to the H-1B and other visa programs is approved, such changes could negatively impact our ability to recruit and retain certain highly skilled technical personnel to support our product development teams, which could potentially increase our costs and harm our business and results of operations. We rely upon the performance of our information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect electronic information, and the failure of or security breaches of any critical information technology system may result in serious harm to our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition. We depend heavily on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. We routinely collect and store sensitive data in our information systems, including intellectual property and other proprietary information about our business and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources, including but not limited to natural disasters, viruses, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber-attacks, internal malfeasance or other events. We have implemented processes for systems under our control intended to mitigate risks; however, we can provide no guarantee that those risk mitigation measures will be effective. Given the frequency of cyber-attacks and resulting breaches reported by other businesses and governments, it is likely we will experience one or more breaches of some extent in the future. We may incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems we feel are necessary to protect our information systems, or we may miscalculate the level of investment necessary to protect our systems adequately. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in material disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to our data or confidential information, including our intellectual property, our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from the collection of proprietary technologies we have developed and acquired since our inception, and the protection of our intellectual property rights is, and will continue to be, important to the success of our business. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed, which could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions, confidentiality agreements, licenses and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. Notwithstanding these agreements, we have experienced disputes with employees regarding ownership of intellectual property in the past. For instance, we have had a dispute with Dr. Sehat Sutardja, our former Chief Executive Officer and a former member of our board of directors, related to his stated belief of ownership of certain patent rights related to the Final-Level Cache invention and his later assignment of associated patent rights to Marvell. Our Audit Committee investigated this claim and concluded that the FLC invention was owned by the Company. To the extent that any third party has a claim to ownership of any relevant technologies used in our products, we may not be able to recognize the full revenue stream from such relevant technologies. We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We may also be required to license some of our patents to others including competitors as a result of our participation in and contribution to development of industry standards. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in jurisdictions where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States or other developed countries. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers, may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such 15 derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license we customarily use to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, some of our customers may accumulate excess inventories and, as a consequence, defer purchase of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our customers product development processes, which may include extensive qualification and testing of components included in their products, including ours. In many cases, they design their products to use components from multiple suppliers. This creates the risk that our customers may decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies. For example, in fiscal 2012, many areas of Thailand sustained massive damage from flooding, which disrupted the global supply chain for HDDs. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for devices designed for consumer electronics due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations. 16 A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 94% of our net revenue in fiscal 2017 and 96% of our net revenue in each of fiscal 2015 and 2016. We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located and, with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities periodically affecting the region that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; volatile global economic conditions, including downturns in which some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin; compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, including pending changes thereto, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices in which we are prohibited from engaging by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods; trade restrictions, higher tariffs, or changes in cross border taxation, particularly in light of the prospect of changes in U.S. international trade policies following the recent U.S. presidential election; transportation delays; difficulties of managing distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; inadequate local infrastructure; and exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. As a result of having global operations, the sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or disruption of the manufacture of our customers products caused by events outside of our control could impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. For example, during fiscal 2012, the earthquake and tsunami that affected Japan disrupted the global supply chain for certain components important to our products, and the flooding in Thailand affected the supply chain and manufacturing of the products for a number of our customers. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs, or where our third-party manufacturers have significant costs, will increase the cost of such operations which could harm our results of operations. 17 We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. In addition, we are also subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We and our customers are also subject to various import and export laws and regulations. Government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. We are also subject to the conflict mineral rules promulgated by the SEC, which impose disclosure requirements on us regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in our products and the procedures our manufacturers use to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. The ongoing implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products . As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices, which could adversely affect our operations and product margins. Additionally, if we are unable to sufficiently source conflict-free metals, we may face difficulties in satisfying customers who may require that the products they purchase from us are conflict-free, which may harm our sales and operating results. The costs of complying (including the costs of any investigations, auditing and monitoring) with these laws could adversely affect our current or future business. In addition, future regulations may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities could increase, which may harm our current or future business. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in existing taxation benefits, rules or practices may also have a significant effect on our reported results. For example, both the U.S. Congress and the G-20 (Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors) may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, in prior years, we have entered into agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate. For example, we have obtained an undertaking from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda that in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on profits, income, or capital asset, gain or appreciation, then the imposition of any such taxes will not apply to us until March 31, 2035. Additionally, our Singapore subsidiary qualified for Pioneer status until it expired in June 2014. However, we re-negotiated with the Singapore government and in fiscal 2015, they extended the Development and Expansion Incentive until June 2019. Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement law of approved or benefited enterprise, two branches of our subsidiary in Israel, Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L) Ltd., are entitled to, and have certain existing programs that qualify as, approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income through fiscal 2027. Moreover, receipt of past and future benefits under tax agreements may depend on our ability to fulfill commitments regarding employment of personnel or performance of specified activities in the applicable jurisdiction. Changes in our business plans, including divestitures, could result in termination of an agreement or loss of benefits thereunder. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of operations would be harmed. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has been working on a Base Erosion and Profit Sharing Project, and issued in 2015, and is expected to continue to issue, guidelines and proposals that may change various aspects of the existing framework under which our tax obligations are determined in some of the countries in which we do business. The European Commission has also conducted investigations in multiple countries focusing on whether local country tax rulings or tax legislation provides preferential tax treatment that violates European Union state aid rules and concluded that certain countries, including Ireland and Belgium, have provided illegal state aid in certain cases. We can provide no assurance that 18 additional investigations would not have an adverse impact on some of our operations in countries in which future investigations may be conducted. In addition, the current U.S. administration and key members of Congress have made public statements indicating that tax reform is a priority. Certain changes to U.S. tax laws, including reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate, expansion of the U.S. tax base by eliminating certain deductions, implementation of a territorial tax system, and addition of a border adjustment mechanism, could have material consequences on the amount of tax we pay in the U.S. and thereby on our financial position and results of operations. During fiscal 2016 and continuing into fiscal 2017, we identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain effective internal controls in future periods, our consolidated financial statements could contain material misstatements which would cause us to issue a restatement thereof. A restatement of our consolidated financial statements could cause our investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and SEC rules require that management report annually on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure