Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to Marvell, we, us, our or the Company mean Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex System-on-a-Chip (SoC) devices leveraging our extensive technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded ARM-based microprocessor integrated circuits. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for data storage, enterprise-class Ethernet data switching, Ethernet physical-layer transceivers (PHY), handheld cellular, Ethernet-based wireless networking, personal area networking, Ethernet-based PC connectivity, control plane communications controllers, video-image processing and power management solutions. Our products serve diverse applications used in carrier, metropolitan, enterprise and PC-client data communications and storage systems. Additionally, we serve the consumer electronics market for the convergence of voice, video and data applications. Our core technologies were initially focused on the storage market, where we provide high-performance products to storage companies such as Hitachi Ltd., Samsung Semiconductor, Seagate Technology, Toshiba Corporation and Western Digital Corporation. We subsequently applied our technology to the broadband communications market, where we provide industry-leading PHY wired and wireless Ethernet-switching solutions that enable the data transmission between communications systems to manufacturers of high-speed networking and wireless equipment including Asustek Computer Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dell Inc., Hewlett Packard Company, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Juniper Networks, Inc., Brocade Communication Systems, Inc., Intel Corporation and NETGEAR, Inc. Our wireless technology has a variety of uses in emerging consumer electronic devices, including enabling applications such as wireless connectivity, ad-hoc gaming, streaming audio, video and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), for products offered by companies such as Microsoft Corporation, Motorola, Inc., Palm, Inc. and Sony Corporation. In fiscal 2007, we acquired the communications and applications processor business from Intel (the ICAP Business), providing us with cellular and handheld solutions with customers such as Research in Motion Limited, Samsung and Motorola. Also, during fiscal 2007, we acquired the printer semiconductor division from Avago Technologies Limited, which provides SoC and system level solutions for both inkjet and laser jet printer systems primarily for Hewlett Packard Corporation. We also have applied our technology by introducing integrated circuits and modules that provide power management broadly to electronic devices. We were incorporated in Bermuda in January 1995. Our registered address is Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda, and our telephone number there is (441) 296-6395. The mailing address of our business offices in Bermuda is Argyle House, 41A Cedar Avenue, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda. The address of our United States operating subsidiary is Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., 5488 Marvell Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number there is (408) 222-2500. We also have operations in many countries including Canada, China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 27, 2007 as fiscal 2007, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 as fiscal 2008, the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 as fiscal 2009, the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010 and the fiscal year ending January 29, 2011 as fiscal 2011. Available Information Our website address is located at www.marvell.com. The information contained in our website does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 4 Table of Contents Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Industry Background The semiconductor industry has evolved over the last four decades primarily due to the rapid and systematic advancements in photolithography techniques and new materials used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, which has enabled the fabrication of transistor devices with ever finer feature sizes. As transistor line widths shrink over time, transistor density increases proportionally, enabling the manufacture of ever more complex devices in a fixed area of silicon. This phenomenon known as Moores Law, states that with the transition to each new successive process node, transistor device size will shrink by 0.7, along with a 2 increase in the number of transistors, and a 1.5 increase device performance. Furthermore, the transition to ever small process geometries results in proportionally lower power consumption of integrated circuits. The effect of Moores Law on the semiconductor industry has been a rapid increase in the processing speed, the device density of integrated circuits and improved power efficiency, which has enabled the integration of multiple complex functions onto a single piece of silicon, which in the past, would have required multiple discrete integrated circuits. Concurrently, with the advances in semiconductor technology, there has been an evolutionary shift toward standards-based communication interconnect protocols. The transition to standards-based communication protocols, such as Ethernet, has given rise to a large and diverse number of electronic systems suppliers to address the simultaneous transmission of voice, video, audio and data through both wired and wireless connections. The capability to transmit and process information has led to both business enterprise and consumer electronic devices sharing and communicating ever larger amounts information for many different applications. Due in part to the ongoing evolution of both semiconductor and communications technology, the bandwidth demanded by users has continued to expand at an exponential rate. Additionally, as the bandwidth demand of both enterprise and consumer users increase, there has been a commensurate increase in the required amount of data storage capacity. We believe the market effects enabled by both the advances in semiconductor and communication technologies will provide a large and growing market for our products, technologies and intellectual property capabilities. Within most modern electronic systems, in both the enterprise and consumer application domain, the device interconnects and data transmission occurs within the analog signal domain. However, due to advanced technologies, modern systems approaches and new algorithms, most new products convert the analog signals into digital signals to process the information. Given the high volume and cost sensitive nature of both enterprise and consumer applications, it is very beneficial to be able to integrate many of the analog and digital functions onto a single integrated circuit, which can help to increase system performance, lower costs and lower overall power consumption. As a result, these devices require a combination of both analog and digital integrated circuit technologies, more commonly known as mixed-signal technology. Historically, the ability to manufacture mixed-signal technologies required the use of expensive, non-scalable semiconductor manufacturing process technologies. However, to achieve price points that will accelerate the acceptance of these highly integrated mixed signal devices, a smaller number of semiconductor vendors, including us, have invested in the fundamental research and development capability, which allows for the use of high volume, lower cost and scalable complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) fabrication technology. Because the processing requirements of these mixed signal integrated circuits continue to expand with the increased performance and sophistication of the devices in which they are embedded, many of these integrated circuits are now also integrating high performance embedded microprocessors and complex digital signal processors to handle this increased workload. This minimizes or eliminates the need for a costly host central processing unit (CPU). With improvements in the performance of such embedded microprocessors, devices can further expand their capabilities while at the same time minimizing power requirements. 5 Table of Contents Many of these new, sophisticated devices are also handheld battery powered devices in which minimizing the power consumption is critical to maximize the life of the battery. Utilizing highly integrated chips as well as chips designed to optimize power efficiency is very important for these handheld devices. Additionally, advanced digital power management solutions that regulate the power supplied to the integrated circuits in an efficient and cost-effective manner are becoming more and more important to help reduce overall power consumption as well as the total size of the power management solution. Given the increased sophistication of these devices, the high level of semiconductor integration, and the constant time to market pressures of the system manufacturers, it is becoming very important for a semiconductor manufacturer to develop a complete system level understanding of a device in order to provide optimal integration, software support and system reference designs to assist in timely product development. Our Markets and Products We target computers, communications-related equipment and consumer devices that require the benefits of highly integrated mixed-signal devices for high-speed data storage, transmission and management. We also target a broad range of electronic products that can utilize our power management solutions. Additionally, we are developing new products that are targeted for new markets that we currently do not serve. Our current product offerings are primarily targeted at three broad end markets: enterprise and infrastructure communications networks, the converged digital home and converged mobility. We offer our customers in these markets a wide range of integrated circuit solutions using proprietary communications mixed-signal processing (CMSP) and digital signal processing technologies. We are applying our expertise in analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, embedded microprocessor, complex SoC capabilities and our extensive intellectual property portfolio in a variety of end-market applications. While we offer products tailored to specific end-market requirements, the majority of the products we offer are complex platform-based SoC devices. The devices we develop usually incorporate several similar building blocks of intellectual property, including ARM-based CPUs, wired or wireless communication intellectual property, data switching fabrics, and a variety of peripheral interfaces. Additionally, many of our SoC devices are shipped with software to enable our customers to develop systems quicker. The ability to leverage our intellectual property and software across multiple end-markets has allowed us to address new and emerging opportunities much faster than competitors. Additionally, the development time and cost of a new product can be collapsed since we re-use significant complex blocks of intellectual property across multiple end markets. Our portfolio of intellectual property building blocks is a competitive advantage, creating significant barriers to entry from many of our competitors. A description of a number of our products is set forth below. Storage Products We offer a broad range of storage products targeted for hard disk drives, tape drive electronics, optical disk drives, solid-state flash drives and storage subsystems technology. We offer both discrete components targeted at specific storage-class requirements, as well as complex SoC solutions, which integrate multiple functional blocks onto a single device. Storage System-on-a-Chip: Our integrated drive electronics platform is a flexible SoC solution that provides increased performance, reduced power consumption and cost savings essential for next-generation hard disk drives. We provide Storage SoC solutions for enterprise, desktop and mobile storage systems. Utilizing our leading-edge read channel devices as the core for integration, we have the flexibility to either add any number of functional blocks available in our portfolio or to integrate customer provided intellectual property. With our high data transfer rates, our advanced SoC platform provides solutions that have the ability to span multiple product generations, allowing for product life cycle risk-reduction, lower cost of ownership and accelerated time-to-market. 6 Table of Contents Our current SoC products incorporate the read channel, hard disk controller (HDC), embedded memory and one or more Marvell designed ARM-microprocessors into a single integrated circuit. Read Channel: A read channel is a mixed-signal integrated circuit that provides the interface between the analog signals stored on magnetic disk drives and the digital signals that computers can understand and manipulate. The performance of the read channel is a key factor to the overall performance of the hard disk drive storage system. Read channel performance is measured as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The higher the SNR value of a read channel circuit, the better the circuit is able to separate valid data from system induced noise. Our ability to consistently develop multiple generations of read channel circuits with industry leading SNR performance has enabled our customers to improve finished drive yields and to yield higher density drives given a fixed aerial density platter. In the development of our read channel products we utilize advanced mixed-signal and digital signal processing technologies. Our read channel devices utilize a variety of advanced signaling algorithms including advanced partial response maximum likelihood (Advanced PMRL) or the low density parity check (LDPC) algorithm. We anticipate the majority of our future storage SoC solutions for high-density drives will be based on LDPC read channel technology. Our technology incorporates an efficient data-encoding scheme in addition to advanced digital filtering and data-detection techniques. Our read channel products are designed to allow customers to achieve high areal density in addition to fast data transfer rates for their hard disk drives. Our read channels utilize custom digital and analog blocks running at a very high frequency while achieving low power consumption. Hard Disk Controller: A HDC is an integrated circuit that provides high performance input/output (I/O), interface control between the hard disk drive read channel, servo motor controller and the host system. The HDC consists of a buffer controller, multi-core ARM-based CPUs, a disk formatter and host bus interface. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including serial advanced technology attachment (SATA), serial attached SCSI (SAS) and to a lesser degree fibre-channel Fibre Channel. These host bus interfaces can support data transfer rates of 1.5 Gigabits per second (Gbps) scalable up to 6 Gbps. Tape Drive Controllers: Our solutions provide our tape drive customers with SCSI, SAS and Fibre Channel I/O interfaces. These devices contain integrated reduced instruction set computer (RISC) processors, buffer controller, direct memory access and a microprocessor interface. Solid-State Drive Controllers: Our solid-state drive (SSD) controllers are targeted at the emerging market for SLC or MLC NAND flash-based storage systems, both for the enterprise and consumer client market. Our SSD controllers leverage significant portions of intellectual property and software developed for the hard disk drive market, including our SAS, SATA and PCIe interfaces, our embedded ARM-based CPUs and data formatting logic. Additionally, we incorporate unique intellectual property, which address wear-leveling algorithms required to assure stable device operation. Storage-System Products : Our storage system solutions leverage our proprietary 6Gbs SAS intellectual property and address the market for enterprise-class redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID), value-class RAID and complex storage area network solutions. Our storage system products enable customers to manage and aggregate data from arrays of multiple hard disk drives or from multiple servers. Our portfolio of storage system solutions includes devices which convert data from multiple formats (SATA to SAS, PCIe to SAS), devices which aggregate up to 24 individual ports of lower bandwidth SAS or SATA formatted data and consolidates this data into high bandwidth 6 Gbps streams. Switching Products We have a broad portfolio of switching solutions for the enterprise networking, carrier access and small office/home office/residential networking markets. Our switching products enable voice, video, and data traffic 7 Table of Contents to be seamlessly carried through the network with full fidelity. Additionally, we are supporting the increased usage of packet-based Internet Protocol communications of real-time traffic such as telephony and video-on-demand. Prestera Switch Family: The Prestera architecture is our sixth generation of Ethernet-based switching solutions. The Prestera family is designed to enable system manufacturers to build a wide range of products that address high-density Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) solutions for various network topologies, accommodating varying bandwidth requirements, including wide area networks (WANs), metropolitan area networks (MANs), enterprise networks, and small-and-medium size businesses networks. Using the Prestera switching architecture, manufacturers can introduce high-performance, feature-rich and cost-effective products that not only meet todays market needs but also provide a scalable platform for future requirements. The Prestera -MX multi-layer switching family of products are fully integrated 10GbE, 1GbE and 100 Megabits per second (Mbps) Fast Ethernet wire-speed configurable devices targeted at metropolitan edge and access systems in service provider networks. The Prestera -MX devices target MAN switching applications, including Layer 2/3 switching, Layer 2 to Layer 5 traffic classification for millions of flows, wire-speed access control lists, traffic policing and shaping, longest prefix match, network address translation and Multi-Protocol Label Switching functions. The Prestera -EX family of packet processors is designed to deliver multi-layer enterprise switching to drive GbE to the desktop with exceptional price and performance ratios and industry-leading features. The Prestera -EX family is designed to provide a complete line of Fast Ethernet, GbE and 10GbE switching solutions with 100% software compatibility. The Prestera -DX family of packet processors offers integration and performance targeted at desktop GbE switches in small-and-medium size businesses networks. The Prestera -DX packet processors are designed to enable system vendors to design affordable, plug-and-play, high-density, standalone switches, which address the cost-sensitive unmanaged and lightly managed desktop switching market. The family of fabric processors and crossbar switch fabrics offers the ability to expand and scale network topologies, which leverage the Prestera -DX packet processors. The switch fabric processors are single-chip traffic managers with an integrated crossbar and Serializer-Deserializer (SERDES) targeted for low cost, high-performance scaling of stackable and chassis-based systems in data centers, multi-tenant buildings and enterprise wiring closets. The Prestera - -CX switching family of products are fully integrated 100GbE and 40GbE devices targeted at the evolving requirements of datacenters. The Prestera -CX family is based on a configurable 480 Gbps packet processing engine, which can support up to 48 ports of 10GbE on a single chip, as well as being configurable to support multiple 40GbE ports. This enables applications such as server virtualization, cloud computing and Software as a Service. Link Street Multi-Port Integrated Switch Family: Our integrated Link Street 10/100 Fast Ethernet and Gigabit switch product family, support three to 10 port switch architectures. The Link Street family is targeted to address the small office/home office Ethernet switch market, where cost, ease-of-use, and flexibility are of paramount importance. The Link Street family of integrated switch products can reduce design complexities and time-to-market barriers typically associated with switch development. The small office/home office switches with integrated transceivers incorporate advanced features such as smart power management, which dramatically reduces power consumption by more than 50%, and Virtual Cable Tester (VCT) technology, which performs cable diagnostics to reduce overall network support costs. Because of these enhanced features, these switches are targeted at applications such as standalone switches, media converters, Internet Protocol phones, firewall appliances, wireless and wired gateway routers and wireless access points. Link Street Gateway Products: Our Link Street family of highly integrated, 100Mbps full-wire-speed gateway devices is designed for small-and-medium size businesses, small office/home office and residential 8 Table of Contents gateway routers. The Link Street gateway family are single chip, mixed-signal SoC devices, which include a high performance ARM-based embedded microprocessor plus a multi-port 100Mbps Fast Ethernet switch, media access controller (MAC) and PHY interface in addition to built-in VCT cable diagnostics capability to reduce overall network support costs. Additionally, the Link Street family includes comprehensive hardware reference designs with the latest firewall capabilities to isolate and protect WAN and local area networks (LANs) from virus intrusion and software development kits enabling lower cost of development and faster time to market for the design of combined wired and wireless gateways. Communications Controller and Embedded Processor Products We have a broad offering of high performance and highly integrated system control-plane communication controllers and fully integrated embedded processors. These devices offer both integrated embedded CPU technology as well as variants that can support discrete embedded RISC microprocessors. Our devices are used in a broad range of applications including routers, switches, digital subscriber line access multiplexers, access concentrators, wireless base stations, VoIP gateways and storage area networks. Discovery Innovation : Our Discovery Innovation series is a complete SoC solution based on our Sheeva embedded CPU technology. By leveraging our highly successful Discovery system controllers and deep expertise in ARM instruction-set-compliant CPUs, the Discovery Innovation SoCs offer one of the highest levels of integration in the industry. The high-performance, low-power, highly integrated processors are ideally suited to a wide range of applications ranging from sophisticated routers, switches and wireless base stations to high-volume laser printer applications. Discovery System Controllers: Our high-performance Discovery system controllers support MIPS and PowerPC CPU-based communication systems. Our controllers are used in systems developed by leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for the Internet infrastructure. These include enterprise switches, LAN to WAN edge routers, enterprise routers, access concentrators, telecom equipment and laser printers. Our system controllers contain all of the key control blocks needed to build high-performance 32-bit and 64-bit CPU subsystems, including a DRAM controller, a peripheral device controller, direct memory access engines, timers, PCI interfaces and interrupt controllers. These system controllers are designed to provide system designers with the ability to match their CPU performance to the targeted overall system price/performance. Our portfolio Discovery system controllers are generally software-compatible with older generations, thereby supporting faster time to market, lower product development risk and lower cost of ownership due to the re-use of system software, which might otherwise need to be re-developed. Horizon WAN Communication Controllers: Our Horizon family of single chip advanced communications controllers provides all of the required network interfaces that bridge the LAN with the Internet infrastructure and combines most of the common functions found in multi-service access routers. These devices target the core of next-generation multi-service edge routers and remote access equipment that merge the functions of LAN-to-WAN routers, VoIP gateways, network security equipment and remote access concentrators. The Horizon family has been designed to enable end-to-end quality of service (QoS) for applications that run at the edge of a network with the integration of hardware support for differentiated services and 802.1p and 802.1q support. Our Horizon system controllers provide new packet processing capabilities for systems that require the convergence of voice, video and data at the edge of the network. The integrated NetGX coprocessor can handle computation-intensive tasks such as flow-classification based on Layer 3 to Layer 5 packet information, encryption and authentication for security purposes and virtually any other packet processing function typically handled by the host CPU. The NetGX coprocessor can free processing power so that the CPU can run multi-service applications such as managing virtual private networks, firewalls and integrated voice services. Kirkwood Embedded Processor: The Kirkwood product family is the third generation of our highly integrated embedded processor SoC. The Kirkwood family is based on our Sheeva embedded CPU technology, providing users with single and dual-CPU cores, which have been highly optimized to maximize the overall 9 Table of Contents computing performance while simultaneously lowering total device power consumption. Purposely built to address the needs for network connected consumer electronic equipment, this family provides the performance, flexibility, interfaces and price points that fit the needs of the digital economy. Applications for Kirkwood SoCs include home gateways, set-top boxes, network storage, printers, media players and point-of-service terminals. Orion Embedded Processor: The Orion product family is designed to enable media vault platforms that allow users to instantly access rich multimedia and data content throughout the home. The Orion family enables what we believe is the industrys first guaranteed, home-wide QoS, designed to offer true, uninterrupted multi-streaming performance. The Orion product family powers a range of media vault platforms, each capable of delivering simultaneous streams of rich, multimedia content seamlessly across wired and wireless networks. The scalable storage, networking and smart media processing architecture of Orion is designed to provide a price/performance advantage over other solutions and to be a key component in markets such as standalone home storage appliances, integrated storage appliances, including access points and digital video recorders and next generation broadband service provider products. Enterprise Transceiver and PC Connectivity Products We offer a portfolio of low power, high-performance PHY, LAN on Motherboard (LOM) and network interface card solutions for demanding network connectivity applications. We provide these products to the enterprise networking, storage networking and PC markets. Alaska Gigabit Ethernet Transceiver Family: Our Alaska family of GbE transceivers enables the development of enterprise networking systems where high performance and low power dissipation are competitive differentiators. Each member of the product family is based on our industry leading 1.25Gbps SERDES intellectual property, enabling seamless data transmission over either copper or fiber-optic cabling. The design of the Alaska family of products incorporates sophisticated digital signal processing algorithms and power management techniques to achieve high data transmission quality and low power dissipation. The devices also support our VCT technology, which allow end-users to quickly and remotely analyze the signal quality and attributes of the data transmission cable, which can significantly reduce installation time and cable debug efforts. The advanced built-in diagnostic capability of our VCT technology help network operators pinpoint the cause of network malfunctions, thereby avoiding unnecessary equipment returns, on-site service calls by field support personnel or bringing down the network. Target applications include network interface cards, LOMs, enterprise routers and next-generation switches. Alaska X 10 Gigabit Ethernet Transceiver Family: Our Alaska X 10Gbps uplink and backplane transceiver products are the evolutionary extension of our Fast Ethernet and GbE transceiver technology. The family enables the accelerated deployment of 10GbE and Fibre Channel capable systems for the LAN, MAN and WAN markets. The Alaska X transceiver family features low power consumption, high performance, and small form factor. Fast Ethernet Transceiver Family: Our 100 Mbps Fast Ethernet physical layer products offer low power dissipation, small form factor, high performance and advanced features. The latest members of the Fast Ethernet PHY family offer very low power consumption of just 130mWatts per port, enabling network systems manufacturers to decrease system cost by reducing both power supply and fan requirements. Additionally, the devices support value-add features such as VCT technology used to diagnose the attached cable plant. Yukon Gigabit Ethernet PC Connectivity Products: Our Yukon connectivity products are targeted for the volume deployment of Gigabit Ethernet PC-client and server network connectivity solutions. The Yukon family of integrated, single-chip solutions is based on our proven enterprise-class Alaska family of GbE MAC, PHY interface and associated comprehensive software suite. The Yukon devices are offered in an ultra-small form factor with low-power requirements, and are targeted for client and server network interface cards and LOM applications for both traditional peripheral connect interface (PCI) bus and PCI-Express architectures. The 10 Table of Contents Yukon products provide a wide variety of manageability features such as VCT technology, which reduces network installation and support costs, and is optimized for 32-bit PCI clients. With a low pin count for such a device, the Yukon product is designed to minimize board space, simplify signal routing and reduce the number of required printed circuit board layers with the goal of a cost-effective motherboard and low profile network interface card implementation. Cellular and Applications Processor Products Communications Processors: Our communications processors are highly integrated cellular SoC devices that enable mobile handset development to address dual-mode EDGE, WCDMA (3G), and TD-SCDMA (China 3G) mobile network standards. Our communications processors incorporate a high-performance multi-band baseband modem processor and our industry leading application processor in a highly integrated, low-power SoC platform for voice and computation-intensive mobile data applications. Our family of communications and applications processors are based on our ARM-compliant micro-architecture, thus allowing for software compatibility across our entire cellular product portfolio enabling handset designers a faster time-to-market advantage. ARMADA Applications Processors: Our ARMADA family of applications processors is designed to deliver advanced integration, leading multimedia performance, and superior power savings. The ARMADA applications processors are highly integrated SoC devices based on Marvell-designed ARM-compliant micro-architecture. Our applications processors are ideal for high-performance, low-power, space-sensitive devices enabling mobile and consumer product manufacturers the ability to integrate advanced applications within a range of power specifications to help differentiate their offerings. Each of the ARMADA family devices is optimized to meet specific end-market requirements. The ARMADA 100 devices are targeted at the nascent e-reader, digital picture frame and connected consumer market. The ARMADA 100 is optimized for consumer devices with display screens in the 5-to-7 inch range, supporting integrated multimedia acceleration with WMMX2 technology, 2D graphics rendering, and up to 720p video display with performance ranging from 400MHz up to 1.2GHz. The ARMADA 500 devices are targeted at the smartbook, thin-client, computing tablet and mobile internet device market. The ARMADA 500 is optimized to deliver PC-class performance of up to 1.5GHz at a fraction of the power consumption. The devices integrate hardware capabilities including high-definition 1080p video decoding, an embedded 3D graphics processing engine supporting 15 million triangles per second rendering, and a host of PC-class user interfaces including SATA, USB 2.0, PCIe, and GbE. The ARMADA 600 devices are targeted at smartphones, mobile gaming, portable media players and new mobile personal information appliances market. The ARMADA 600 is optimized to provide up to 1GHz while consuming very-low power providing extended battery life. The devices integrate multiple advanced hardware blocks including a powerful 3D graphics engine supporting 45 million triangles per second rendering, a hardware implemented 1080p encode/decode engine supporting MPEG-4, H.264, VC-1 and On-2 specifications, and a host of advanced mobile device interfaces including MIPI controller, NAND flash and DDR memory controllers, USB 2.0, and LCD controller. The ARMADA 1000 devices are targeted at next-generation consumer video devices including Blue-ray players, digital TV, advanced media players and set-top-box applications market. The ARMADA 1000 is designed around a Marvell-designed dual-core ARMv7 CPU, with each core independently delivering performance up to 1.2GHz. The devices integrate a dual channel, high definition multi-format decoding processor in conjunction with Marvells award-winning Qdeo video post processing engine, along with a full suite of integrated peripherals including dual-SATA interfaces, DDR2/3 and NAND memory controllers, FastEthernet, USB2.0, HDMI, and PCIe interfaces. Ecosystem Partners: Through a comprehensive ecosystem comprised of third party providers of communications and applications processors, tools and support, we assist select ecosystem partners in their 11 Table of Contents platform solutions development, which can speed up the time-to-market for cellular, mobile and next-generation consumer devices. All of the ARMADA applications processors provide extensive operating system support including Linux, Android, Maemo, Windows Mobile, Windows CE, Flash 10 and industry standard application processing interfaces such as OpenMAX, OpenGL and OpenVG. Wireless and Personal Area Networking Products We sell both standalone wireless products as well as combination devices which incorporate wireless, Bluetooth and FM radio capability (personal area networking products). Libertas Wireless LAN Family: The Libertas family of wireless LAN (WLAN) devices are Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11 solutions for the small office/home office, small-and-medium size businesses, corporate enterprise and residential consumer electronics markets. The Libertas product line combines the flexibility of embedded IEEE 802.11 standards with dedicated hardware acceleration engines to support Advance Encryption Standard wireless security and quality of service. These products integrate high performance embedded ARM-microprocessor technology as well as advanced networking capabilities including Transmission Control Protocol, User Datagram Protocol and Internet Protocol network processing to enable the device to perform ad-hoc wireless connections to other wireless devices. The Libertas product line is a complete family of WLAN solutions. Our Libertas 802.11a/b/g solutions offer high performance, low-power and space saving single-chip integration for WLAN applications that demand 54 Mbps wireless connectivity. Our WLAN products are aimed at traditional PC-client adapter cards, highly integrated wireless home gateways, dual-mode cellular and VoIP handsets, standalone game consoles and multiple emerging consumer applications, which require low-power wireless connectivity, such as digital still cameras, printers, MP3 music players, automobile media head-end units and other applications. Avastar TM Multi-Function Wireless Networking Family: The Avastar family of highly integrated wireless personal area network products is targeted at consumer electronics devices including handsets, gaming consoles, portable media players, e-readers, printers, digital cameras, digital TV, smartbooks and next-generation consumer devices. The Avastar family is based around our 802.11n Multiple-Input, Multiple-Output (MIMO) intellectual property supporting one, two or three spatial stream configurations, which support wireless data transmission rates between 150 Mbps to 450 Mbps, in both the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands. We offer highly integrated, low-power wireless personal area network devices, which combine our IEEE 802.11n WLAN core with a Bluetooth 3.0 enhanced data rate core, in addition to a world-wide FM radio receiver-transceiver. These products support simultaneous use of Bluetooth applications as well as FM radio reception and transmission, ideally suited for the low power requirements of mobile handset devices. By harmonizing the interaction of an integrated, shared radio frequency front-end with effective silicon arbitration techniques and intelligent software, Avastar devices deliver best-in-class radio coexistence. The Avastar family also includes the ability to simultaneously act as a full featured 802.11n access point, and an integrated WLAN authentication and privacy infrastructure hardware engine supporting SMS4 encryption to address the needs of the expanding market in China. Printing ASIC Products Printing ASICs: We offer custom and semi-custom SoC products aimed at the printer market. These devices are the core integrated circuits for image processing and the control of laser printers, inkjet printers and all-in-one products incorporating printing, scanning, networking, wireless and fax capabilities. We also provide printer control systems based on Marvell Printing ASICs aimed at offering highly integrated solutions and shorter time-to-market. 12 Table of Contents Digital Video Processing Products Digital Video Format Converter: Our digital video format converter with award-winning Qdeo video processing converts PC graphics, standard-definition and HD video into 1080p HD outputs, removing signal noise and image artifacts. In mass production since 2007, the Marvell 88DE2710 digital video format is now shipping in blue-laser players and recorders and A/V receivers and is also targeted at digital television, HD-set-top boxes and media clients. Power Management and Green Technology Products DSP Switcher Integrated Regulators: DSP Switcher integrated regulators are designed to provide efficiency, precision and transient response together with small solution size to provide system designers with enhanced form factor and battery life in portable equipment. The integration of power metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistors, internal frequency compensation and single resistor output programming reduces design efforts and increases system reliability. Analog Switching Regulators: Our analog switching regulators are low-cost, highly integrated power management solutions. The Marvell analog switching regulators are available as single or multiple output devices allowing for design flexibility for our customers. Our analog regulator solutions feature low quiescent current, high efficiency, high switching frequency, and integrated compensation circuits which reduce the external components, system board area and cost. Digital PFC Controllers: Our DSP-based PFC controller for AC-DC power supplies are designed to improve the efficiency by which energy is pulled from the grid by consumer electronic devices. With our smart technology for power supplies, the DSP determines the amount of power required for users applications with mixed-mode technology that optimizes operation throughout the cycle by changing from Pulse-Width Modulation to Pulse-Frequency Mode. The adaptive drive capability of the DSP intelligently adjusts the driving level to the switch; reducing switching loses, while adaptive adjustments also reduce electromagnetic interference for a wide range of switches. Adaptive current limits are also automatically adjusted for varying current threshold limits worldwide, which adds system protection and reliability. Based on our operational management, we have determined that we operate in one reportable business segment: the design, development and sale of integrated circuits. Please see the financial information regarding this reportable business segment set forth in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information regarding our net revenue and long-lived assets based on geographic regions included in Note 14 Segment and Geographic Information of our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers, Sales and Marketing Our direct sales force targets markets that have high intensity data communications processing and high performance storage requirements. We complement and support our direct sales force with manufacturers representatives for our products in North America, Europe and Asia. In addition, we have distributors who support our sales and marketing activities in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also use stocking representatives outside of the United States for some of our products. We anticipate that the total amount of sales through distributors will increase in future periods; however, we expect a significant percentage of our sales will continue to come from direct sales to key customers. As we expand into other end markets, we will evaluate the best sales channel to service that business. We use field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems designs that incorporate our products. We believe that superior field applications engineering support plays a pivotal role in building long-term relationships with 13 Table of Contents customers by improving our customers time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction and encouraging customers to use our next-generation products. Our marketing team works in conjunction with our field sales and application engineering force and is organized around our product applications and end-markets. Due to the complexity of our products, we believe that individual meetings with our marketing, sales and engineering teams provide the most effective and rapid means of communicating the capabilities, benefits and extremely technical specifications of each significant new product. The customers for our storage products are manufacturers of hard disk drives for the enterprise, desktop and mobile computing markets. Additionally we target manufacturers of blue-laser DVD player sub-systems within the consumer and PC-client market. Furthermore, our storage subsystem products target medium to large redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID) system manufacturers. The target customers for our switching, transceiver and connectivity products are manufacturers of high-speed networking equipment targeted at WANs, MANs and LANs, in addition to PC-client OEMs. The target customers for our communications controller and embedded processor products are the manufacturers and vendors of wireless communications equipment and handsets for the internet voice communications market. Our target customers for our wireless and personal area networking products include manufacturers of WLAN solutions for small-and-medium size businesses, small office/home office and residential gateway solutions as well as manufacturers of a variety of new consumer applications such as cellular handsets, gaming devices, PDAs and home entertainment multimedia client devices. The target customers for our cellular and applications processor products are manufacturers of cellular handsets, PDAs, personal navigation devices and a large variety of other handheld, portable consumer applications. The target customers for our digital video processing products include manufacturers of consumer electronic devices, such as digital televisions, HD-based media players, HD-based set-top-boxes, media clients and audio-visual receivers. The target customers for our power management and green technology products are very diverse and include manufacturers of many different electronic devices. A small number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Two customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Western Digital represented approximately 24%, 21% and 17% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During fiscal 2010, Toshiba acquired the disk drive operations of Fujitsu. Although Toshiba and Fujitsu revenue have not historically accounted for more than 10% of our revenue, we have combined fiscal 2010 revenue for both Toshiba and Fujitsu together for reporting purposes based on Toshibas acquisition of Fujitsus disk drive operations in fiscal 2010. Toshiba represented approximately 15%, of our net revenue in fiscal 2010 and less than 10% of net revenue in fiscal 2009 and 2008. Our sales are made under purchase orders typically received between one week and four months prior to the scheduled delivery date. These purchase orders can be cancelled without charge if notice is given within an agreed upon period. Because of the scheduling requirements of our foundries, we generally place firm orders for products with our suppliers up to 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to an order for the product. These lead times typically change based on the current capacity at the foundries. Backlog Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. The quantities actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the customers needs. Due to an industry practice that allows customers to cancel or change purchase orders with limited notice prior to the scheduled shipment dates, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is related to 14 Table of Contents inventory pulled by customers from 3 rd party logistics providers. As such, this revenue would not be included in the backlog. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to introduce improvements to our existing products and to develop new products that deliver cost-effective solutions for both existing and new markets. Our research and development efforts are directed largely to the development of high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded microprocessor integrated circuits. We devote a significant portion of our resources to expanding our core intellectual property technology portfolio with designs that enable high-performance, reliable communications over a variety of physical transmission media. We are also focused on incorporating functions currently provided by stand-alone integrated circuits into our products to reduce our customers overall system costs. We have assembled a core team of engineers who have extensive experience in the areas of mixed-signal circuit design, digital signal processing, embedded microprocessors, CMOS technology and system-level architectures. We have invested, and expect that we will continue to invest, significant funds for research and development. Our research and development expense was $828.2 million, $935.3 million and $994.2 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Manufacturing We believe that our fabless manufacturing approach provides us with the benefits of superior manufacturing capability as well as flexibility to move the manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products to those vendors that offer the best capability at an attractive price. Our engineers work closely with our foundries and other subcontractors to increase yields, lower manufacturing costs and improve quality. Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are substantially fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facility. This allows us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We currently outsource a substantial percentage of our integrated circuit manufacturing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, with the remaining manufacturing outsourced to other foundries primarily in Asia. We work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced, sub-micron manufacturing processes. Because finer manufacturing processes lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We outsource all product packaging and substantially all testing requirements for our production products to several assembly and test subcontractors, including STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and China, Global Testing Corporation in Singapore, Siliconware Precision Industries in Taiwan, ASE Electronics in Singapore, Taiwan and Malaysia, and Amkor in Korea, Philippines and Taiwan. The remainder of our production products is manufactured on a turnkey basis, whereby we purchase fully assembled and tested products from our foundry partners. Our products are designed to use low cost, standard packages and to be tested with widely available test equipment. In addition, we specifically design our integrated circuits for ease of testability, further reducing production costs. 15 Table of Contents Quality Assurance We are certified to the International Organization for Standards Quality Management ISO 9001:2000 level. We build quality into our products starting with the design and development process. Our designs are subjected to extensive circuit simulation under extreme conditions of temperature, voltage and processing before being committed to manufacture. We pre-qualify each of our subcontractors and conduct regular in-depth quality audits. We closely monitor foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. All of our independent foundries and assembly-test subcontractors have been awarded ISO 9001 certification. Environmental Management We monitor the environmental impact of our products. The need for lead-free solutions in electronic components and systems has received increasing attention within the semiconductor industry and many companies are moving towards becoming compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS), the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. We believe that our current products are compliant with the RoHS Directive. Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers and seek to control access to, and distribution of, our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of other companies into our designs, and we have certain obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. It is possible, however, that the steps taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or our customers intellectual property may not be successful. As of January 30, 2010, we have been issued and/or have acquired over 1,200 U.S. patents and over 250 foreign patents and we have more than 3,000 U.S. and foreign pending patent applications on various aspects of our technology, with expiration dates ranging approximately from 2010 to 2029, however, we cannot be certain whether we will be issued patents as a result of these applications. Furthermore, it is possible that our patents may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or proprietary information to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have expended and will continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. 16 Table of Contents The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued in the future by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. Any of these claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected. In any of the pending or future claims or actions asserted against us, we may seek to obtain licenses under a third partys intellectual property rights; however, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Competition The markets for our products are intensely competitive, characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and pricing pressures imposed by high-volume customers. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter our markets. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on a number of factors, including the: performance, features, quality and price of our products; timing and success of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; emergence of new industry standards; ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity; and number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Our current products face competition from a number of sources. We believe that our principal competitors for our read channel and storage SoC devices are LSI Corporation, Renesas, STMicroelectronics and other new entrants. Our hard disk controller products compete primarily against devices offered by LSI and those internally developed by the hard disk manufacturers. Our tape drive controller products compete primarily against devices internally developed by tape drive manufacturers. Our switching products compete primarily against products from Broadcom and Vitesse Semiconductor and our transceiver and connectivity products compete primarily with products from Broadcom Corporation, Intel Corporation, LSI Corporation, Realtek Semiconductor and Vitesse Semiconductor. In the market for system controllers, our products compete primarily against devices offered by PLX Technology, and our communications controllers and embedded processors compete directly with products from companies such as Freescale Semiconductor, Netlogic Microsystems and PMC-Sierra. Our cellular and applications processor products compete against products from Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor, MediaTek Incorporated, QUALCOMM Corporation, Samsung, STMicroelectronics and Texas Instruments. Our wireless LAN and personal area network products compete against products from Atheros Communications, Broadcom, Cambridge Silicon Radios, Intel, Realtek and Texas Instruments. Our printing ASIC products compete primarily with products from PMC Sierra and ST Microelectronics. Our power management products compete with products from a number of companies including Analog Devices, 17 Table of Contents International Rectifier, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products Incorporated, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments. In addition, we expect increased competition in the future from other emerging and established companies. Although we believe we will be able to successfully compete with existing and potential competitors, some of these current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our current or future competitors may develop and introduce new products that will be priced lower, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products when we are unable to do so. Furthermore, current or potential competitors have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. In addition, many of our current and potential customers have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have already developed, or in the future may develop, technologies that will compete directly with our products. We may also face competition from suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies. Historically, average unit selling prices in the integrated circuit industry in general, and for our products in particular, have decreased over the life of a particular product. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the average unit selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to reduce the cost of our products. We intend to accomplish this by implementing design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing, assembly and testing, by entering into long-term, strategic arrangements with our foundry partners to secure wafer capacity at reduced prices, by negotiating reduced charges from our foundries as and if volumes increase and by successfully managing our manufacturing, assembly and testing relationships. Because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities. If we fail to introduce lower cost versions of our products in a timely manner or to successfully manage our manufacturing, assembly and testing relationships, our business could be adversely impacted. Employees As of January 30, 2010, we had a total of 5,241 employees. Our employees are not represented by any collective bargaining agreements, and we have not experienced any work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows information about our executive officers as of January 30, 2010: Name Age Position(s) Dr. Sehat Sutardja 48 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Clyde R. Hosein 50 Chief Financial Officer, Interim Chief Operating Officer and Secretary Dr. Pantas Sutardja 47 Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Research and Development Officer and Director 18 Table of Contents Dr. Sehat Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors since 1995, and Chairman of our Board of Directors since 2003. Dr. Sehat Sutardja also holds one private company directorship. Dr. Sehat Sutardja holds a BS from Iowa State University, and a MS and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Sehat Sutardja was elected as a Fellow to the IEEE in 2007 and holds over 90 U.S. patents. Dr. Sehat Sutardja is the brother of Dr. Pantas Sutardja. Clyde R. Hosein has served as our Chief Financial Officer since June 2008, our Corporate Secretary since September 2008 and has served as our Interim Chief Operating Officer since October 2008. From March 2003 until June 2008, Mr. Hosein served as Chief Financial Officer for Integrated Device Technologies, a publicly traded company that develops and delivers mixed signal semiconductor solutions to the communications, computing and consumer end markets. From 2001 until 2003, Mr. Hosein served as Chief Financial Officer at Advanced Interconnect Technologies. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Hosein was the Chief Financial Officer and senior director of corporate planning of Candescent Technologies Corporation. Previous to Candescent, Mr. Hosein spent over 14 years with IBM Corporation, where he held several engineering and financial positions within their storage, microelectronics, data systems and corporate divisions. Mr. Hosein serves on the board of directors of Cree Inc., a publicly traded company that develops and manufactures LED products. Mr. Hosein holds an MBA from New York University Stern School of Business and a BS in industrial engineering from Polytechnic University in New York. Dr. Pantas Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as Vice President and a director since our inception 1995. Dr. Pantas Sutardja was appointed Chief Technology Officer in 2000 and Chief Research and Development Officer in August 2007. Dr. Pantas Sutardja served as our Acting Chief Operating Officer from September 2007 until June 2008. Dr. Pantas Sutardja holds a BS, MS and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Pantas Sutardja is the brother of Dr. Sehat Sutardja. Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our financial condition and results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, and current general economic volatility; cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments; 19 Table of Contents our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or demand for new products requested by our customers; our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; gain or loss of a key customer or design win; our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner; our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes; failure to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; our ability to exercise stringent quality control measures to obtain high yields; our ability to successfully transition to smaller geometry process technologies or achieve higher levels of design integration; effective and timely update of equipment and facilities as required for leading edge production capabilities; our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel; our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and evolving industry standards and our customers changing demands; failure to protect our intellectual property; and any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, our stock price could decline. On average, technology companies have been subject to a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in many other industries as a result of stock price volatility. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by the global financial crisis, which may cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant demand downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and sometimes accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue, gross margin, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Furthermore, our foundry partners often require significant amounts of financing in order to build wafer fabrication facilities. If they are unable to obtain financing and anticipated capacity is not completed, we may experience a shortage of capacity, which could increase our costs or reduce our ability to meet customer demand. Any downturns in the current environment may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the markets in which we operate to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global credit and financial markets over the past year and a half experienced extreme volatility and disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, increased concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, lower economic growth, volatile energy costs, increased 20 Table of Contents unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. As a result, we experienced cancellations, deferrals and a significant slowdown in orders, which resulted in lower revenue levels. These conditions make it difficult for our customers, our vendors and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause global businesses to further reduce spending on our products and services, which would delay or lengthen sales cycles. During challenging economic times our customers and distributors may face issues gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could impact their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and our days sales outstanding would increase. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent global economic recovery in the hard disk drive or in the semiconductor industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from current levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the hard disk drive industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The hard disk drive industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. As a result, this industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our customers are participants in this industry. Hard disk drive manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. In addition, advances in existing technologies and the introduction of new technologies may result in lower demand for disk drive storage devices, thereby reducing demand for our products. Rapid technological changes in the hard disk drive industry often result in significant and rapid shifts in market share among the industrys participants. If the hard disk drive manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. Future changes in the nature of information storage products may reduce demand for traditional hard disk drives. For instance, products using alternative technologies, such as semiconductor memory, optical storage, solid-state flash drives and other storage technologies could become a significant source of competition to manufacturers of hard disk drives. Flash memory has typically been more costly than disk drive technologies. However, flash memory manufacturers have been reducing the prices for their products, which could enable them to complete more effectively with very small form factor hard disk drive products. Demand for hard disk drives could be reduced if alternative storage technologies such as flash memory can meet customers cost and capacity requirements. Our sales are concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the year ended January 30, 2010, two customers accounted for a total of approximately 39% of our net revenue. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; 21 Table of Contents our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We must also achieve market acceptance for these products and enhancements. If we do not successfully develop and achieve market acceptance for new and enhanced products, our ability to maintain or increase revenues will suffer. The development of our products is highly complex. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by our existing customers, we would have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual most favored nation pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, a reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities, therefore, we rely on third party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. We currently rely on several third party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration: Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third party foundries located in Taiwan. Currently our alternative manufacturing sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. Because of the geographic concentration of these third party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters. For example, the risk of an earthquake in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. Taiwan has experienced significant earthquakes in the past, including, for example, in March 2010, and may be subject to additional earthquakes that could disrupt manufacturing operations. In addition, the resurgence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the outbreak of avian flu and any similar future outbreaks in Asia, where these foundries are located, could affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. In the event of such a quarantine or closure, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing 22 Table of Contents facilities, our revenues, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products and services in a timely manner, or if one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply: Availability of foundry capacity is constrained due to strong demand, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. For example, as a consequence of the economic downturn, during the last several months of fiscal 2010 and into the first quarter of fiscal 2011, we experienced some supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries in rapidly increasing their production capacities from low utilization levels to the high utilization levels required due to a rapid increase in demand. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we may not have sufficient levels of production capacity with all of our foundries, despite signing an agreement with a foundry to reserve and secure foundry fabrication capacity for a fixed number of wafers. Despite this agreement, foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Although we use several independent foundries to manufacture our semiconductor products, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it may be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as non-refundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. Uncertain Yields and Quality: The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us 23 Table of Contents for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects in our existing or new products could result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to control directly product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. For example, we have experienced periods of rapid growth and expansion. Through internal growth and acquisitions, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and expanded our workforce from 1,205 employees, as of January 31, 2003, to 5,241 employees, as of January 30, 2010. In the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in order to reduce expenses in the challenging economic environment, during the end of fiscal 2009 and the beginning of fiscal 2010, we implemented certain cost reduction measures to reduce operating expenses. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. If customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have implemented an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These systems can be time consuming and expensive to implement, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We rely on third party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and 24 Table of Contents selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin, or, conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as a consequence, deferred purchases of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to nine month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and evolving industry standards. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will 25 Table of Contents be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge which we do not properly anticipate, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenues and gross margin. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. We may not be able to maintain or improve the gross margins and our gross profits and financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our efficiency through reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margin. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margin. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products, however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. 26 Table of Contents As a result of our global operations, we face foreign business, political, economic and exchange rate risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 89% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010, 86% of our net revenue in fiscal 2009, and 84% of our net revenue in fiscal 2008. We have substantial operations, including approximately 21% of our workforce as of January 30, 2010, in Israel. These operations are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Any potential hostilities involving or within Israel could disrupt these operations. For example, past hostilities between Israel and the Palestinian authority and other groups have caused substantial political unrest, which could lead to a potential economic downturn in Israel. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, other hostilities and political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; compliance with foreign laws, and laws and practices that favor local companies; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; transportation delays; difficulties of managing distributors, especially because we expect to continue to increase our sales through international distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; and inadequate local infrastructure. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs or our third party manufacturers have significant cost will increase the cost of such operations, which could harm our results of operations. For example, we have large fixed costs in Israel, which will become greater if the U.S. dollar declines in value versus the Israeli Shekel. On the other hand, all of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. 27 Table of Contents We have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in prior fiscal years. Although we believe we have taken the necessary actions to strengthen the weaknesses in our control structure, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure