Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to Marvell, we, us, our or the Company mean Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex System-on-a-Chip (SoC) devices, leveraging our extensive technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. The majority of our product portfolio leverages the ARM technology portfolio. We also develop platforms that we define as integrated hardware along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for data storage, enterprise-class Ethernet data switching, Ethernet physical-layer transceivers (PHY), mobile handsets, connectivity and other consumer electronics. We were incorporated in Bermuda in January 1995. Our registered and mailing address is Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda, and our telephone number there is (441) 296-6395. The address of our U.S. operating subsidiary is Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., 5488 Marvell Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number there is (408) 222-2500. We also have operations in many countries, including Canada, China, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Taiwan. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 27, 2007 as fiscal 2007, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 as fiscal 2008, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2009 as fiscal 2009, the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 as fiscal 2011, the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 as fiscal 2012, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013 as fiscal 2013, the fiscal year ended February 1, 2014 as fiscal 2014 and the fiscal year ending January 31, 2015 as fiscal 2015. Available Information Our website address is located at www.marvell.com. The information contained in our website does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Industry Background The semiconductor industry has evolved over the last five decades primarily due to the rapid and systematic advancements in photolithography techniques and new materials used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, which has enabled the fabrication of transistor devices with a greater number of features and functions at ever-smaller chip sizes and with increasing power efficiency. As transistor line widths shrink over time, transistor density increases proportionally, enabling the manufacture of ever more complex devices in a fixed area of silicon. This phenomenon, known as Moores Law, states that with the transition to each new successive process node, transistor device size will shrink by 0.7. This can enable a 2 increase in the number of transistors, an increase in device performance, a reduction in chip size, or additional functionality. Furthermore, the transition to ever smaller process geometries results in proportionally lower power consumption of integrated circuits. The effect of Moores Law on the semiconductor industry has been a rapid increase in the processing speed, the device density of integrated circuits and improved power efficiency. This has enabled the integration of multiple complex functions onto a single piece of silicon, which in the past required multiple discrete integrated circuits. Concurrently, with the advances in semiconductor technology, there has been an evolutionary shift 3 Table of Contents toward standards-based communication interconnect protocols, such as Ethernet and wireless local area network (LAN). This has given rise to a large number of diverse electronic systems suppliers that address the simultaneous transmission of voice, video, audio and data through both wired and wireless connections. Technological innovations have increased the capability to transmit and process information, which has led to both business enterprise and consumer electronic devices sharing and communicating ever larger amounts of information for a wide array of applications. Due in part to the ongoing evolution of both semiconductor and communications technology, the bandwidth demanded by users has continued to expand at an exponential rate. Additionally, as the bandwidth demand from service providers, enterprises and consumers has risen, there has been a commensurate increase in the required amount of data storage capacity. We believe the market effects enabled by the advances in both semiconductor and communication technologies will provide a large and growing market for our products, technologies and intellectual property capabilities. Within most modern electronic systems, the device interconnects and data transmission occurs within the analog signal domain. However, due to advanced technologies, modern systems approaches and new algorithms, most new products convert the analog signals into digital signals to process the information. Given the high volume and cost sensitive nature of current electronic devices, it is very beneficial to be able to integrate many of the analog and digital functions onto a single integrated circuit, which can help to increase system performance, lower costs and lower overall power consumption. As a result, these devices require a combination of both analog and digital integrated circuit technologies, more commonly known as mixed-signal technology. Historically, the ability to manufacture mixed-signal technologies required the use of expensive, non-scalable semiconductor manufacturing process technologies. However, to achieve price points that will accelerate the acceptance of these highly integrated mixed-signal devices, a small number of semiconductor suppliers, including us, have invested in the fundamental research and development capability, which allows for the use of high volume, lower cost and scalable complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) fabrication technology. Because the processing requirements of these mixed-signal integrated circuits continue to expand with the increased performance and sophistication of the devices in which they are embedded, many of these integrated circuits are now also integrating high-performance embedded microprocessors and complex digital signal processors to handle the increased workload. With improvements in the performance of such embedded microprocessors, devices can further expand their capabilities while at the same time minimizing power requirements. Many of these new, sophisticated devices are also handheld battery-powered devices in which minimizing power consumption is critical to maximizing the life of the battery. Utilizing highly integrated circuits that are optimized for power efficiency is a critical factor for such handheld devices. Additionally, advanced digital power management solutions that regulate the power supply to the integrated circuits in an efficient and cost-effective manner are becoming increasingly important to the reduction of both the overall power consumption and the total size of the solution. Platform Solutions Over the last several years, we have transitioned from a supplier of standalone semiconductor components to a supplier of fully integrated platform solutions. Our platform solutions contain multiple intellectual property components in integrated hardware along with software that incorporates digital, analog and mixed-signal computing and communication technologies, designed and configured to provide an optimized solution compared to individual components. Our solutions have become increasingly integrated, with ever more components resulting in an all-in-one solution for a given customers end product. The demand for such highly integrated platform solutions is generally driven by technological changes and anticipation of the future needs of the device manufacturer and end user, as well as to an increasing extent by service providers, including cellular network carriers and Internet based applications providers. For example, in order to provide a complete solution for a 4 Table of Contents specific handheld consumer electronics device, a device manufacturer may require a solution that integrates a high-performance applications processor, along with seamless communications capability with a 3G/4G Long-Term Evolution (LTE) multi-band modem, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, radio frequency (RF), GPS and near field communication (NFC). In addition, a device manufacturer may require high-definition graphics processing, high-definition video and audio, and power management. These platforms will often cross multiple end markets, integrating components and technologies traditionally associated with one end market with components and technologies from another end market. For example, we may integrate an applications processor, traditionally associated with the mobile and wireless end market, with software and other components in an end user product targeting the home cloud. Therefore, it has become critical that our products across multiple end markets work together seamlessly. In addition, software has become increasingly important to our business over the last several years, and we expect software to become even more important in the years to come. On-chip software, which acts as the driver for the functionality of the chip, has always been a critical part of our business. However, the software that we deliver with our chip has become significantly more complex as the range of uses and the needs in application-level software have increased. For example, a chip that we develop for a smartphone may need to include software that is compatible with the latest version of a specific companys operating system that enables 3D user interface and graphics, and that works seamlessly with a variety of popular end user applications. These demands require a significant amount of up-front software development, testing, and often additional licensing. Lastly, the market for consumer electronics devices is becoming increasingly standards-based. These standards change rapidly and often several different standards may exist and overlap in a single market. Our platforms are typically designed to operate seamlessly with all relevant standards, which require us to design products in anticipation of these relevant standards. For example, we have communications processors and software designed to operate on several different cellular standards, including GSM/ enhanced data for the GSM environment (EDGE) (2G), WCDMA (3G), TD-SCDMA (China 3G) and 4G LTE. In summary, while providing the most advanced components at the lowest possible price remains critical to our business, continuing the transformation into a platform solutions provider through the integration of multiple components together with industry-leading software capability will continue to increase in importance to our overall success. Our Markets and Products During the early stages of the company, our core technologies were focused on the storage market. Today, we provide high-performance products for traditional hard disk drive (HDD) controllers to companies such as Seagate Technology, Toshiba Corporation and Western Digital Corporation. Over the past few years, we have expanded our core storage technologies by developing solid state flash drive (SSD) controllers, which are currently sold to flash providers, such as Micron, SanDisk and Toshiba and other companies who are building drives based on our SSD technologies. In addition, we have also developed unique high-performance solutions for the solid state hybrid drive (SSHD) market, which we expect to grow rapidly over the next few years. As our business grew, we expanded into the networking market, where we developed industry-leading PHY devices and wired and wireless Ethernet-switching solutions, which enable high-speed transmission between communications systems that are sold by manufacturers of networking and wireless equipment, such as Brocade Communication Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., FREEBOX, Hewlett Packard Company, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Intel Corporation, Juniper Networks, Inc. and ZTE Corporation. We also provide complete smartphone and tablet platform solutions, including communications and applications processors, wireless connectivity, power management and other platform components, for customers such as BlackBerry, Huawei, Motorola Solutions, Samsung, Yulong and ZTE Corporation. We also provide printer SoC and system level solutions, including wireless, for both inkjet and laser jet printer systems for companies including Hewlett Packard Company. Our wireless products also are used on a standalone basis in consumer electronics devices, 5 Table of Contents including smartphones, tablets, wireless access routers and gaming devices, by companies such as Cisco Systems, Microsoft Corporation, Samsung and Sony Corporation. In addition, we also provide video and application processors combined with our connectivity and power management for new consumer devices, such as the Google Chromecast. Our current product offerings are primarily in three broad end markets: mobile and wireless, storage and networking. Our net revenue by end market for the last three fiscal years are as follows: Year Ended February 1, 2014 February 2, 2013 January 28, 2012 (in millions, except for percentages) Mobile and Wireless $ 839 25 % $ 823 26 % $ 969 29 % Storage 1,682 49 % 1,495 47 % 1,561 46 % Networking 670 20 % 709 22 % 698 21 % Other 213 6 % 142 5 % 165 4 % Total $ 3,404 $ 3,169 $ 3,393 Mobile and Wireless We offer a broad range of products for the mobile and wireless end market, including integrated communications processors, thin modems and connectivity solutions. Our solutions power the complete value chain of mobile and wireless devices that are designed to provide full-featured, media-rich experiences and robust services to everyone from the business user to the consumer. Communications and Applications Processors Our communications processors are highly integrated cellular SoC devices that enable mobile handset developers to address GSM/EDGE (2G), WCDMA (3G), TD-SCDMA (China 3G) and 4G LTE mobile network standards. Our communication products include high-performance multi-band baseband thin modems and applications processors in highly integrated low-power SoC platforms for voice, computation and multimedia-intensive mobile applications for smartphones and tablets. The PXA920 was our first generation 3G communications processor solution that targeted the TD-SCDMA smartphone market. In fiscal 2013, we introduced our unified 3G platform with the PXA986, PXA988, and PXA1088 that address the worldwide WCDMA market and China 3G market. These solutions are highly integrated 3G SoC communications processors that feature advanced modem technologies, with PXA986 integrating a WCDMA modem and PXA988 integrating a TD-SCDMA modem. The PXA1088 integrates both WCDMA and TD-SCDMA modems with a high-performance quad-core application processor that enables a world-phone design. These products combine dual-core and quad-core gigahertz class applications processing performance with advanced 3D graphics and 1080p multimedia processing capability. In fiscal 2014, we introduced the PXA1088LTE, our 4G LTE single-chip mobile SoC that integrates our multi-mode LTE modem with a high-performance quad-core application processor and graphic processing capabilities. This advanced solution is designed to provide high-performance, low-power mobile computing and support for all global mobile standards, including LTE frequency division multiplex (LTE FDD), time division LTE (TD-LTE), high speed packet access plus (HSPA+), time division HSPA+ (TD-HSPA+) and EDGE. All of our mobile platforms are complemented by our power management, RF and wireless connectivity solutions. 6 Table of Contents Thin Modems Our thin modems allow us to target high-end applications and are highly optimized multi-mode baseband modem devices that enable the design of a wide-array of high-performance, low-power Internet-connected devices, targeting smartphones and tablets. Our thin modems incorporate a multi-band multi-mode design, which is capable of addressing global 3G and 4G mobile standards. The PXA180x-series modem solutions are a series of highly integrated 4G LTE cellular thin modems supporting Release 9 category 4 (3GPP) FDD and TDD LTE, Release 8 (3GPP) WCDMA, Release 8 (3GPP) TD-SCDMA, and 2.5G (GSM/GPRS/EDGE) cellular standards. These devices target multiple applications, including smartphone, tablet, mobile hotspot, automotive and fixed data access points for enterprise and consumer use. The PXA180x-series modem platform is complimented by our power management, RF and in many instances wireless connectivity components. Our newest solutions are designed to support next-generation LTE standards with category 4 speeds, which can achieve up to 150 megabits-per-second downlink throughput. We are also investing in and designing next generation advanced LTE solutions for the smartphone, tablet and other high-volume markets. Connectivity Our Avastar family of wireless products include standalone Wi-Fi products, as well as multi-function SoCs which incorporate multiple wireless communications protocols, including Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, NFC and FM, delivered on a single chip. Historically, these products have been incorporated primarily in gaming systems, digital cameras, printers, and wireless access points and routers. In todays increasingly connected and mobile lifestyle, the number and variety of products that require wireless communications have expanded significantly to include mobile phones, tablets, digital TV, set-top boxes, video dongles, in-car infotainment and smart appliances. Our products are well positioned for these devices by delivering low-power and high-performance functionality with the latest technologies, such as Wi-Fi Certified Passpoint, Wi-Fi Certified Miracast , IEEE 802.11ac, and Bluetooth Smart Ready. We have a broad wireless product portfolio that includes single stream 1x1, 2x2 MIMO and 4x4 MIMO devices, as well as Global Navigation Satellite System hybrid location products. In addition, the Avastar family of products are designed to provide a high degree of integration of radios, RF components, power management and memory. Mobile Computing Products Our ARMADA 100, 500, 600 and 2100 products are SoCs that are designed to deliver advanced integration, excellent multimedia performance and superior power consumption savings for mobile computing products. These products have been incorporated into tablets, notebooks, eReaders, gaming devices, scanners and educational devices. We have also introduced thin client products designed to operate on Linux-based devices, offering a low-power and cost-efficient alternative to existing desktop computers. Our ARMADA line of chips are also used in a large variety of embedded devices, ranging from point-of-sale devices, vending machines, connected displays, wireless speakers and other entertainment devices. Storage We offer a broad range of integrated data storage products across all major technologies, including HDD, SSD, and SSHD controllers. In addition, we offer storage system products for complex storage area network solutions. These products provide increased performance and reduced power consumption for enterprise, desktop and mobile storage systems. These integrated SoCs feature ultra-fast read channels, high-performance processors, transceivers, DDR RAM controllers and cryptographic engines. 7 Table of Contents Hard Disk Drive Controllers HDD controllers provide high-performance input/output (I/O) interface control between the HDD and the host system. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including SATA, SAS, PCIe and USB, which can support the complete range of enterprise, desktop and mobile HDDs. We are the leading HDD controller supplier and currently supply products to all of the major hard drive manufacturers. Our HDD controllers with advanced 500-gigabyte-per-platter technology for mobile HDDs provide a technological advantage that enables a higher level of data storage on a smaller form factor. Solid-State Drive Controllers Our SSD controller SoCs are targeted at the growing market for flash-based storage systems, for the enterprise, consumer and mobile markets. Our SSD controllers leverage significant portions of intellectual property and software developed for the HDD market. Additionally, we incorporate unique intellectual property and development required to ensure stable device operation. We have also leveraged our technology in consumer SSD controllers and have developed a family of SSD controller-based solutions designed for the smartphone and tablet markets. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including PCIe, SATA, SAS and emerging mobile standards for a complete range of enterprise, desktop and mobile SSD applications. Solid State Hybrid Drive Controllers A SSHD is a HDD that also contains flash memory, thereby leveraging the low cost of a HDD with the performance of a SSD. Our SSHD controller SoCs include the technology required for HDD operation as well as a high-speed interface for the on-drive flash memory. Networking Residential, enterprise, and service provider networks are experiencing rapid change. To meet these challenges, our Networking business is evolving by investing and adding technologies required for the build-out of new network architectures. We are focusing on cloud infrastructure and service provider infrastructure. Residential networks are where personal applications and data reside within the privacy and control of a residential network. Our products are designed to allow a multitude of smart devices to share content and manage home services. Enterprise networks represents the next generation of the network that enables a more mobile workforce, global collaboration, increased bandwidth and enhanced security. Service Provider networks encompass the converged wireless and wireline public infrastructure and low-power commercial data centers, where we are focused on the convergence of networking, computing and storage technologies. Our ARMADA XP family of products is a quad-core processing, enterprise-class cloud computing platform. This platform integrates four ARM-based 1.6Hz CPU cores along with a host of I/O peripherals and is optimized to consume low power while simultaneously delivering high-performance per-watt. Our Kirkwood family of products is based on our embedded CPU technology and has been designed to maximize overall performance while minimizing power consumption. Designed for network-connected consumer electronics equipment, this family of products is used in home gateways, set-top boxes, network storage, printers, media players and point-of-service terminals. Our Discovery Innovation family of products provides a complete SoC solution based on our embedded CPU technology. These high performance, low-power, highly integrated processors are ideally suited to a wide range of applications, ranging from sophisticated routers, switches and wireless base stations to high volume laser printer applications. 8 Table of Contents The Xelerated product family provides programmable network processing solutions designed for carrier Ethernet, access, aggregation, mobile backhaul, transport and data-center (mobile cloud) platforms, where high-performance-per-watt, enhanced quality of service is an essential metric. Our Link Street family of 10/100 Fast Ethernet and Gigabit switches is targeted to the small office and home office market, where cost, ease-of-use and flexibility are critical. These devices are targeted at applications, such as standalone switches, media converters, Internet protocol phones, firewall appliances, wireless and wired gateway routers, and wireless access points. When integrated with a high-performance ARM-based embedded microprocessor, a media access controller and PHY interface, our Link Street family of products provides an integrated single-chip solution for small and medium-size business applications, as well as residential applications. The Prestera DX family of Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) switches offer integration and performance for small and medium-size business networks, and mobile access and backhaul infrastructure networks. These products are designed to enable system vendors to design affordable, plug-and-play, high-density and standalone switches, which address the cost-sensitive desktop switching market. The Prestera EX family of enterprise switches is designed to deliver exceptional price and performance. The Prestera EX family delivers a complete line of Fast Ethernet, GbE and 10GbE switching solutions. The Prestera CX family of 10GbE and 40GbE switches is designed for the new generation of high density data centers and optical broadband, as well as the convergence of data and storage networks. Using standards-based congestion management capabilities and dynamic power management, these products enable virtualization, cloud computing and software as a service. Our Alaska family of Ethernet transceiver products includes high-performance and low-power Gigabit and 10/40 Gigabit PHY devices. These physical layer transceivers compliment Marvells switch and SoC products and address enterprise switching, server and telecom applications. The Alaska family of products enables the accelerated deployment of 10/40GbE capable systems for the LAN, metropolitan area network (MAN) and wide area network (WAN) markets over both fiber and copper media. Our low-power, low-cost solutions are designed to address network connectivity for client systems, such as PCs, gaming systems and digital TVs. Our Yukon family of connectivity products includes integrated, single-chip solutions, based on our proven enterprise-class Alaska family of products. These products are offered in an ultra-small form factor with low-power consumption and are targeted for client and server network interface cards. Our Avanta product family provides solutions for next generation broadband, based on Ethernet passive optical network (EPON) and Gigabit passive optical network (GPON) architectures. These products consist of a highly integrated Gateway-on-a-Chip solution, Ethernet and packet processing, voice processing, power management and applications processors. The Avanta product is designed to meet the needs of next generation networks and the significant increases in required bandwidth, including high-quality video, online gaming and conferencing. Other Products Printing Solutions Our printer SoC products power many of todays laser and ink printers and multi-function peripherals. These SoCs include a family of printer-specific standard products as well as full-custom printer ASICs. We continue to pioneer and lead printing technologies including 3D printing and mobile printing. 9 Table of Contents Smart Home Products Our smart home product portfolio includes the ARMADA 1500 family SoC and other products that are designed to enable the next generation of connected consumer platforms, and to enhance the eco-friendly Connected Lifestyle throughout the home, ranging from broadband access, home networking, home entertainment and home automation. Focused on complete solutions for service providers and OEMs, products from Smart Home are found in smart TVs, set-top boxes, multi-screen dongles such as Google Chromecast, smart lighting and smart appliances. Financial Information about Segments and Geographic Areas We have determined that we operate in one reportable business segment: the design, development and sale of integrated circuits. For further information, please see Note 13 Segment and Geographic Information in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers, Sales and Marketing Due to the increased importance of being able to offer fully integrated platforms to our customers, which combine multiple products, including products generally associated with multiple end markets, our sales force is strategically aligned along key customer lines. In this way, we believe we can more effectively offer a broader set of content into our key customers end products, without having multiple product groups separately engage the same customer. We complement and support our direct sales force with manufacturers representatives for our products in North America, Europe and Asia. In addition, we have distributors who support our sales and marketing activities in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also use third party logistics providers, who maintain warehouses in close proximity to our customers facilities. We expect a significant percentage of our sales will continue to come from direct sales to key customers. We use field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems designs that incorporate our products. We believe that superior field applications engineering support plays a pivotal role in building long-term relationships with customers by improving our customers time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction and encouraging customers to use our next-generation products. Our marketing team works in conjunction with our field sales and application engineering force and is organized around our product applications and end markets. Due to the complexity of our products, we believe that individual meetings between our customers and our marketing, sales and engineering teams provide the most effective and rapid means of communicating the capabilities, benefits and extremely technical specifications of each significant new product. The target customers for our storage products are manufacturers of HDDs, SSDs and SSHDs for the enterprise, desktop and mobile computing markets. The target customers for our switching, transceiver and connectivity products are manufacturers of high-speed networking equipment targeted at LANs, MANs and WANs, in addition to PC-client OEMs. The target customers for our communications controller and embedded processor products are the manufacturers and vendors of wireless communications equipment and handsets for the Internet voice communications market. The target customers for our communications and applications processor products are manufacturers of mobile handsets, tablets, ultrabooks and a large variety of other handheld, portable consumer applications. Our target customers for our wireless and personal area networking products include manufacturers of wireless LAN solutions for small-and-medium size businesses, small office/home office and residential gateway solutions as well as manufacturers of a variety of new consumer applications such as mobile handsets, tablets, gaming devices and home entertainment multimedia client devices. 10 Table of Contents The target customers for our digital video processing products include manufacturers of consumer electronic devices, such as digital TVs, HD-based media players, HD-based set-top-boxes, media clients and audio-visual receivers. The target customers for our power management and green technology products are very diverse and include manufacturers of many different electronic devices. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Net revenue attributable to significant end customers is presented in the following table as a percentage of net revenue: Year Ended Customer February 1, 2014 February 2, 2013 January 28, 2012 Western Digital 24 % 24 % 19 % Seagate 12 % 10 % * Toshiba * 10 % * * Less than 10% of net revenue In fiscal 2013, Western Digital acquired Hitachis HDD unit and in fiscal 2012, Seagate acquired the HDD operations of Samsung. Our sales are made under purchase orders typically received between two and four months prior to the scheduled delivery date. These purchase orders can be cancelled without charge if notice is given within an agreed upon period. Because of the scheduling requirements of our foundries, we generally place firm orders for products with our suppliers generally up to 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to an order for the product. These lead times typically change based on the current capacity at the foundries. A significant number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronics products, including gaming devices and personal computers, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Holiday and back to school buying trends may at times negatively impact our results in the first and fourth quarter and positively impact our results in the second and third quarter of our fiscal years. In addition, the timing of new product introductions by our customers may cause variations in our quarterly revenues, which may not be indicative of future trends. Backlog Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. The quantities actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the customers needs. Due to an industry practice that allows customers to cancel or change purchase orders with limited notice prior to the scheduled shipment dates, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue. In addition, an increasing portion of our revenue is related to inventory pulled by customers from third-party logistics providers. As such, this revenue would not be included in the backlog. Our backlog also includes orders from distributors for which revenue is not recognized until the products are sold to end customers. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to introduce improvements to our existing products and to develop new products that deliver cost-effective solutions for both existing and new markets. Our research and development efforts are directed largely to the development of high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded microprocessor integrated circuits with the smallest die size and lowest power. We devote a significant portion of our resources to expanding our product portfolio based on a 11 Table of Contents broad intellectual property portfolio with designs that enable high-performance, reliable communications over a variety of physical transmission media. We are also focused on incorporating functions currently provided by stand alone integrated circuits into our integrated platform solutions to reduce our customers overall system costs. We have assembled a core team of engineers who have extensive experience in the areas of mixed-signal circuit design, digital signal processing, embedded microprocessors, CMOS technology and system-level architectures. We have invested and will continue to invest significant funds for research and development. Our research and development expense was $1.2 billion, $1.1 billion and $1.0 billion in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Manufacturing Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facility. This allows us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We currently outsource a substantial percentage of our integrated circuit manufacturing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company. To a lesser extent, we also utilize United Microelectronics Corporation, with the remaining manufacturing outsourced to other foundries primarily in Asia. We work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced manufacturing processes up to and including 28 nanometer. Because finer manufacturing processes lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We outsource all product packaging and testing requirements for our production products to several assembly and test subcontractors, including STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in China, Singapore and Taiwan; Global Testing Corporation in Taiwan; Siliconware Precision Industries in China and Taiwan; ASE Electronics in China, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan; and Amkor in Philippines, South Korea and Taiwan. Quality Assurance We are certified to the International Organization for Standardization Quality Management Systems Standard ISO 9001:2008. We build quality into our products starting with the design and development process. Our designs are subjected to extensive circuit simulation under extreme conditions of temperature, voltage and processing before being committed to manufacture. We pre-qualify each of our subcontractors and conduct regular in-depth quality audits. We closely monitor foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. All of our independent foundries and assembly-test subcontractors have been awarded ISO 9001 certification. Environmental Management We believe that our products are compliant with the current Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, and the REACH (Regulation, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals) SVHC Substances Directive. In addition, each of our manufacturing subcontractors complies with ISO 14001:2004, the international standard related to environmental management. We are also working to establish a conflict-free supply chain, including ethical sourcing of certain minerals for our products. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers and seek to control access to and distribution of, our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology without authorization, independently develop similar technology or design around our patents. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of other companies into our designs and we have certain obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. It is possible, however, that the steps taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or our customers intellectual property may not be successful. As of February 1, 2014, we have been issued and/or have acquired over 4,200 U.S. patents and over 1,200 foreign patents with expiration dates ranging from 2014 to 2034. We also have more than 2,700 U.S. and foreign pending patent applications on various aspects of our technology; however, we cannot be certain whether we will be issued patents as a result of these applications. Furthermore, it is possible that our patents may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or proprietary information to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or the rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have expended and will continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued in the future by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. Any of these claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected. In any of the pending or future claims or actions asserted against us, we may seek to obtain licenses under a third partys intellectual property rights; however, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. See Risk Factors under Item 1A of this Report on Form 10-K and Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies in our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the risks associated with patent litigation matters. 13 Table of Contents Competition The markets for our products, particularly in the mobile and wireless end market, are intensely competitive, characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and pricing pressures imposed by high-volume customers. Competition has intensified as a result of the increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors continue to strengthen their product offerings and new competitors enter our markets. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on a number of factors, including the: performance, features, quality and price of our products; timing and success of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; emergence, and rate of adoption and acceptance of new industry standards; ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity; and number and nature of our competitors in a given market. By end market our major competitors are as follows: Mobile and Wireless Storage Networking Broadcom Corporation LSI Corporation Broadcom Corporation MediaTek, Inc. Freescale Semiconductor Holdings I, Ltd. QUALCOMM Incorporated LSI Corporation Spreadtrum Communications, Inc. In addition, we expect increased competition in the future from other emerging and established companies. Although we believe we will be able to successfully compete with existing and potential competitors, some of these current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our current or future competitors could develop and introduce new products that will be priced lower, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products when our ability to do so may be limited. Furthermore, current or potential competitors have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which could harm our business. In addition, many of our current and potential customers have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have already developed, or in the future may develop, technologies that could compete directly with our products. We may also face competition from suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies. Historically, average unit selling prices in the integrated circuit industry in general, and for our products in particular, have decreased over the life of a particular product. We expect that the average unit selling prices of 14 Table of Contents our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to introduce innovative new products. In addition, we need to continue to reduce the cost of our products. To accomplish this, we intend to continue to implement design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing and assembling and testing our products. We may also enter into long-term, strategic arrangements with our foundry partners to secure wafer capacity at reduced prices, by negotiating reduced charges from our foundries. In addition, we plan to work with multiple foundry partners to ensure that our products are qualified and can be manufactured in multiple locations, which we believe will ensure favorable wafer pricing. Because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities. If we fail to introduce lower cost versions of our products in a timely manner or to successfully manage our manufacturing, assembly and testing relationships, our business could be adversely impacted. Employees As of February 1, 2014, we had a total of 7,355 employees. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows information about our executive officers as of March 20, 2014: Name Age Position(s) Dr. Sehat Sutardja 52 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Weili Dai 52 President Michael Rashkin 68 Chief Financial Officer Dr. Zining Wu 41 Chief Technology Officer Dr. Sehat Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of our Board of Directors since 1995 (from 1995 to 2003 he was Co-Chairman of the Board of Directors). While remaining deeply involved in the daily challenges of running a global growth company, Dr. Sutardja participates heavily in our engineering and marketing efforts across analog, video processor, and microprocessor design while offering input across all of our other product lines. Dr. Sutardja is widely regarded as one of the pioneers of the modern semiconductor age. His breakthrough designs and guiding vision have revolutionized numerous industry segments, from data storage to the high-performance, low-power chips now driving the growing global markets for mobile computing and telephony. For his relentless innovation, he has been awarded more than 360 patents and has been named a Fellow of IEEE. In 2006, Dr. Sutardja was recognized as the Inventor of the Year by the Silicon Valley Intellectual Property Law Association. Dr. Sutardja also served as President from 2003 to June 2013. Dr. Sutardja holds an M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Sutardja received a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Iowa State University. Dr. Sutardja is the husband of Ms. Dai. Ms. Weili Dai , one of our co-founders, has served as President of the Company since July 2013. Widely considered a technology visionary, Ms. Dai is the only woman co-founder of a global semiconductor company. Her business acumen, strategic thinking, product leadership, endless passion and personal network have contributed greatly to Marvells success. Her close relationship with Marvells customers and the foundation of the trust shared with them have given her a strong reputation for professionalism and integrity throughout the technology industry. Prior to her appointment as President, Ms. Dai served as a Vice President of MSI from 2008 to July 2013, including the position of General Manager of the Communications & Consumer Business of MSI since September 2011 and General Manager of the Communications and Computing Business Unit of MSI from March 2009 to September 2011. From 1995 to May 2007, Ms. Dai served as Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and a member of the Board of Directors of the Company. Ms. Dai holds a B.S. degree in Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Ms. Dai is the wife of Dr. Sutardja. 15 Table of Contents Michael Rashkin has served as our Chief Financial Officer since February 2014 and served as our Interim Chief Financial Officer from December 2013 to February 2014. Mr. Rashkin served as President of the Marvell Charitable Fund from March 2011 to November 2013. From January 2008 to March 2011, Mr. Rashkin served as Vice President of Taxes and General Tax Counsel of MSI. From July 2007 to January 2008, Mr. Rashkin served as Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company. In 2007, Mr. Rashkin was appointed Special Assistant to the CEO and Vice President of Strategic Development of MSI. Prior to 2007, Mr. Rashkin was Vice President and General Tax Counsel of MSI from 2005 to 2007. From 2000 to 2005, Mr. Rashkin served as Director of Taxes and General Tax Counsel of MSI and Director of Taxes and Tax Counsel of MSI from 1999 to 2000. Mr. Rashkin holds an LL.M. from the New York University Graduate School of Law, a J.D. from St. Johns University School of Law and a B.S. from Brooklyn College, City University of New York. Mr. Rashkin is a member of both the California and New York bars. Dr. Zining Wu has served as our Chief Technology Officer since January 2014. From August 2008 to January 2014, Dr. Wu served as MSIs Vice President, Data Storage Technology. Prior to August 2008, Dr. Wu worked as an engineer and in various managerial roles in MSIs Storage group since July 1999. Dr. Wu holds a BS in Electronic Engineering from Tsinghua University in Beijing, China, and a M.S. and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. Dr. Wu holds over 230 U.S. patents and has published eight technical papers and a book related to data storage technology. Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. Many of these risks and uncertainties are beyond our control, including business cycles and seasonal trends of the computing, semiconductor and related industries. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our financial condition and results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: changes in general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry; the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor industry; any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business; our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products; 16 Table of Contents cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; gain or loss of a design win or key customer; failure to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; seasonality in sales of consumer devices in which our products are incorporated; failure to protect our intellectual property; impact of a significant natural disaster, including earthquakes, floods and tsunamis; and our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. From January 30, 2011 through February 1, 2014, our common shares have traded as low as $6.98 and as high as $20.42 per share. Accordingly, you may not be able to resell your common shares at or above the price you paid. In future periods, our stock price could decline if, amongst other factors, our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of securities analysts and investors. As a result of stock price volatility, we may be subject to securities class action litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. We operate in intensely competitive markets, and our failure to compete effectively would harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry and specifically the mobile and wireless communications markets are extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. This has especially intensified as semiconductor companies have begun to offer more integrated platforms. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. Our efforts to introduce new products into markets with entrenched competitors will expose us to additional competitive pressures. For example, we expect we will face significant competition in the transition into the LTE market. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards continue to evolve and become better known, and others realize the market potential of this trend to platform integration. As competition in the markets in which we operate continues to increase, our revenues and gross margins may decline. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the mobile and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. While we continue to pursue similar strategic relationships, and currently have significant financial and technical resources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. In addition, semiconductor providers have recently experienced consolidation. For example, Broadcom Corporation acquired NetLogic Microsystems in February 2011 and Texas Instruments Incorporated acquired National Semiconductor in September 2011. Other pending transactions may further consolidate competition in our industry. Consolidation among our competitors could lead to a changing competitive landscape, capabilities and market share, which could harm our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We are currently involved in a patent litigation action involving Carnegie Mellon University, and, if we do not prevail on post-trial motions or appeal of the verdict, we could be liable for substantial damages. On March 6, 2009, Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania naming Marvel Semiconductor, Inc. and us as defendants, and alleging patent infringement. CMU has asserted U.S. Patent Nos. 6,201,839 and 6,438,180 (collectively, the CMU patents in suit), which relate to read-channel integrated circuit devices and the HDD products incorporating such devices. A jury trial began on November 26, 2012. On December 26, 2012, a jury delivered a verdict that found the CMU patents in suit were literally and willfully infringed and valid, and awarded past damages in the amount of $1.17 billion. Due to the finding of willfulness during post-trial proceedings, the judge could enhance the damages by an amount up to triple the damages awarded by the jury at trial. In addition, CMU has disclosed in its post-trial motions that it is seeking pre-judgment interest up to $322 million, post-judgment interest, supplemental damages, attorneys fees, and an injunction and/or ongoing royalties. Post-trial motions were heard on May 1 and 2, 2013. On June 26, 2013, the District Court denied CMUs post-trial motion for attorney fees without prejudice. On August 23, 2013, the District Court denied our motion for mistrial. On September 23, 2013, the District Court denied our motion for judgment as a matter of law or a new trial on non-infringement, invalidity and other non-damages issues as well as our motion for reduced damages. On the same day, the District Court granted-in-part CMUs motion for a finding of willful infringement and enhanced damages, reserving its further rulings on any enhancement of the verdict for a forthcoming opinion. On January 14, 2014, the District Court denied our post-trial motion on laches. We believe that there are strong grounds for appeal and we intend to vigorously challenge the District Courts judgment via an appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C., but there is no guarantee that we will be successful on appeal. Please see Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of a number of litigation matters we are currently engaged in. Should the District Court in the CMU case grant an injunction or if we are required to pay most or all of the damages awarded by the jury after all appeals have been exhausted, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We plan to appeal the final judgment issued by the District Court in the CMU litigation, regardless of the dollar amount of the final judgment. The parties are currently engaged in discussions before a Special Master concerning the bonding of the judgment pending appeal. During October 2013, we entered into indemnity agreements with a consortium of insurers that would potentially provide financial assurance that each of the insurers will be indemnified by us should a loss occur under a surety bond. As of February 1, 2014 and as of the date of this filing, no final judgment has been issued and no surety bond has been issued. Therefore, these indemnity agreements have had no impact to our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of February 1, 2014. We expect that under a surety bond, the surety companies would agree to guarantee to the District Court our payment of a specific amount, to be determined. However, the terms of any surety bond arrangements have not been finalized, and we cannot be certain that a surety bond will be available to us in sufficient amount to cover the full amount of a final judgment or on commercially reasonable terms. If we cannot obtain a surety bond in sufficient amount or on commercially reasonable terms, or if the District Court in the CMU litigation does not approve alternative arrangements to stay execution of the judgment pending our appeal, our business could be harmed. For example, if, under a surety bond, we must post our cash, cash equivalents and short term investments as collateral, we may be restricted from using such assets in the operation of our business and such assets would be classified as restricted cash in future filings. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the HDD industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The HDD industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our largest customers are participants in this industry. 18 Table of Contents HDD manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the HDD industry often result in shifts in market share among the industrys participants. If the HDD manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. In addition, the HDD industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. For example, during fiscal 2010, Toshiba acquired the HDD operations of Fujitsu. In December 2011, Seagate completed the acquisition of Samsungs HDD unit. In March 2012, Western Digital completed the acquisition of Hitachis HDD unit. Consolidation among our customers could lead to changing demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. On the other hand, this could lead to increased opportunities for our products within the combined company if we can leverage our technology and customer relationships. Furthermore, future changes in the nature of information storage products could reduce demand for traditional HDDs. For example, products using alternative technologies, such as solid-state flash drives and other storage technologies could become a source of competition to manufacturers of HDDs. Although we offer SSD controllers, leveraging our technology in hard drives, we cannot ensure we will be able to maintain significant market share if demand for traditional HDDs decreases. We may become involved with costly and lengthy litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. The amount of damages alleged in intellectual property infringement claims can often be very significant. For example, a jury has awarded past damages in the amount of $1.17 billion in our litigation with CMU. If we receive a significant adverse judgment in any litigation matter that is ultimately upheld after all appeals, our results of operations, financial position and cash flows will be adversely affected. From time to time our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that allege claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of the intellectual property rights of third parties. In addition to standards-based infringement claims, infringement claims have also been directed against us and our subsidiaries proprietary technologies, particularly those related to storage technology, microprocessors and other circuit components. We have also had certain patent licenses with third parties that have not been renewed, and if we cannot successfully renew these licenses, our subsidiaries and customers could face claims of infringement. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. 19 Table of Contents We may also be required to indemnify some customers under our contracts if a third party alleges, or a court finds, that our products have infringed upon the proprietary rights of other parties. From time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims made against our products, where such claims allege infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. If we are required to make a significant payment under any of our indemnification obligations, our results of operations may be harmed. Our sales are concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, or if any of these key customers experience a significant decline in market share, our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. Net revenue from our two largest customers represented 36% of our net revenue for the year ended February 1, 2014. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period and year to year primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, natural disasters that may divert a customers operations, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: a significant portion of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with relatively short notice to us; our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products; our customers may develop their own solutions; or our customers may be subject to severe business disruptions. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third-party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our ability to grow our business. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities. Therefore, we currently rely on several third-party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third-party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration: Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third-party foundries located in Taiwan. Our other sources for manufacturing are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our third-party assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. Because of the geographic concentration of these third-party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters including earthquakes, tsunamis or typhoons, or by political changes. For example, the risk of an earthquake in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our 20 Table of Contents foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. Taiwan has experienced significant earthquakes in the past and may be subject to additional earthquakes that could disrupt manufacturing operations. In the event of a significant natural disaster or a quarantine or closure that affects our manufacturers in the Pacific Rim, our revenues, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing facilities, we could experience significant delays in product shipments, which could harm our results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply: The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. When demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained or not available, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Moreover, if any of our third party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. Despite our strategy to move to a dual source, most of our products are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it may be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as non-refundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. We are also subject to risk from fluctuating market prices of certain commodity raw materials, particularly gold, that are incorporated into our end products or used by our suppliers to manufacture our end products. Supplies for such commodities may from time to time become restricted, or general market factors and conditions may affect pricing of such commodities. Over the past few years, the price of gold increased significantly and certain of our supply chain partners assessed surcharges to compensate for the resultant increase in manufacturing costs. As a result, our gross margins have been adversely affected by increases in the price of gold. We are currently restructuring certain manufacturing processes to use copper instead of gold in our products. In transitioning from gold to copper, because the capacity of either wafer producers or assemblers can be limited from time to time, we may be unable to satisfy the demand of our customers, or may have to accept price increases or other compensation arrangements that increase our operating expenses and erode our gross margins. Our results may also be materially affected adversely if we fail to execute successfully or if we experience resistance from our customer base in the transition from gold to copper. 21 Table of Contents Uncertain Yields and Quality: The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects in our existing or new products could result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to control directly product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. In addition, the development of new silicon devices is highly complex, and due to supply chain cross-dependencies and other issues, we may experience delays in completing the development, production and introduction of our new products. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge that we do not properly anticipate, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully in a timely manner. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we and our customers may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them. In addition, our long-standing relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers certain price concessions, which could cause our average selling prices and gross margins to decline. Our gross margin and results of operations may be adversely affected in the future by a number of factors, including decreases in average selling prices of products over time and shifts in our product mix. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have 22 Table of Contents higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Therefore, over time, we may not be able to maintain or improve our gross margins. Our financial results could suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by other cost reductions through efficiencies, introduction of higher margin products and other means. Moreover, because of the wide price differences across the markets we serve, the mix and types of performance capabilities of our products sold may affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. We may enter new markets in which a significant amount of competition exists, and this may require us to sell our products with lower gross margins than our established businesses. In addition, these new markets may have lower standard gross margins than the traditional markets we have served. If we are successful in growing revenue in these markets, our overall gross margin may decline. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margins. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or by our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will continue to have to reduce prices in the future. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. In the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. If customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These systems can be time consuming and expensive to implement, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin; conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. Due to their inability to predict demand or other reasons, some of our customers may accumulate excess inventories and, as a consequence, defer purchase of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to nine month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. Our products are incorporated into complex devices and systems, which may create supply chain cross-dependencies. For example, in fiscal 2012, many areas of Thailand sustained massive damage from flooding, which disrupted the global supply chain for HDDs. Due to cross dependencies, any supply chain disruptions could negatively impact the demand for our products in the short term. We have a limited ability to predict the timing of a supply chain correction. In addition, the market share of our customers could be adversely impacted on a long-term basis due to any continued supply chain disruption, which could negatively affect our results of operations. If we overestimate customer demand, our excess or obsolete inventory may increase significantly, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. The risk of obsolescence and/or excess inventory is heightened for devices designed for consumer electronics due to the rapidly changing market for these types of products. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by global economic conditions, which may cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant demand downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and sometimes accelerated erosion of prices, including as a result of volatile global economic conditions. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue, gross margin, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would 24 Table of Contents adversely impact our gross margin. Any downturns in the current environment may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the markets in which we operate to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is also subject to periodic increases in demand and supply constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our results of operations may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery or the impact of any such events on our vendors, customers or us. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from current levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third-party intellectual property, into our products. However, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We had approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill and $49.0 million of acquired intangible assets, net on our balance sheet as of February 1, 2014. Under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we are required to review our intangible assets including goodwill for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. We have only one reporting unit, and the fair value of the reporting unit is determined by taking our market capitalization as determined through quoted market prices and as adjusted for a control premium and other relevant factors. If our fair value declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill impairment charges. Our stock price has steadily improved throughout fiscal 2014. However, we experienced a decline in our stock price during fiscal 2013, which caused a substantial reduction in the reporting units excess fair value over its net book value. Although we determined the fair value of our company was in excess of our carrying value, 25 Table of Contents and therefore there was no impairment of goodwill at that time, if at some point our stock price were to decline and erode our total market capitalization, we may be required to record an impairment charge in the future that could be material to our operating results. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. If the operations of any businesses that we have acquired declines significantly, we could incur significant intangible asset impairment charges. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. We depend on key personnel to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our products. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner. As a result of our global operations, we face additional risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 95% of our net revenue in fiscal 2014, 90% of our net revenue in fiscal 2013 and 88% of our net revenue in fiscal 2012. We also have substantial operations outside of the United States. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions of the region in which they are located, and with respect to Israel, possible military hostilities that could affect our operations there. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; 26 Table of Contents local laws and practices that favor local companies, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; natural disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis and floods; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; transportation delays; difficulties of managing distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; inadequate local infrastructure; and exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. As a result of having global operations, the sudden disruption of the supply chain and/or the manufacture of our customers products caused by events outside of our control could impact our results of operations by impairing our ability to timely and efficiently deliver our products. During fiscal 2012, the earthquake and tsunami that affected Japan disrupted the global supply chain for certain components important to our products and the flooding in Thailand affected the supply chain and manufacturing of the products for a number of our customers. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs or our third-party manufacturers have significant cost will increase the cost of such operations, which could harm our results of operations. For example, we have large fixed costs in Israel, which will become greater if the U.S. dollar declines in value versus the Israeli shekel. On the other hand, substantially all of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. We have experienced, from time to time, hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. We cannot assure you that, despite our testing procedures, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, material recall and replacement costs, delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenues, writing down the inventory of defective products, the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury, and damage to our reputation in the industry that could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field. As a result, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to correct defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Tax benefits that we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would harm our results of operations and profitability. In prior years, we have entered into agreements in certain foreign jurisdictions that if certain criteria are met, the foreign jurisdiction will provide a more favorable tax rate than their current statutory rate. We obtained an undertaking from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda in fiscal 2013 under the Exempt Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, that in the event Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax 27 Table of Contents computed on profits, income, or capital asset, gain or appreciation, then the imposition of any such taxes will not apply to us until March 31, 2035. We cannot assure that any future elected Government of Bermuda would not amend the Exempted Undertaking Tax Protection Act 1966 such that tax would be imposed in Bermuda. The Singapore Economic Development Board (EDB) initially granted a 10-year Pioneer Status in July 1999 to our subsidiary in Singapore if we met several requirements as to investments, headcount and activities. In October 2004, our subsidiary in Singapore was granted a second incentive known as the Development and Expansion Incentive (DEI), which was retroactively effective to July 2004 and is renewable every 5 years. The DEI was to benefit the non-Pioneer income. In June 2006, the EDB agreed to extend the Pioneer status for 15 years to June 2014. In 2009, the EDB renewed the DEI to June 2014. The maximum period for the Pioneer Incentive is 15 years; therefore, our subsidiary is no longer eligible to apply for this incentive. We are currently in discussion with the EDB to extend the DEI through June 2019. DEI can be enjoyed up to 40 years. Renewals and extensions of such tax incentives are at the discretion of the Singapore government. An extension of this tax incentive arrangement has not yet been granted by the Singapore government beyond its expiration in June 2014. Absent these tax incentives, the corporate income tax rate in Singapore would otherwise be 17%. Under the Israeli Encouragement law of approved or benefited enterprise, two branches of Marvell Israel (M.I.S.L.) Ltd. (MISL), the GTL branch and the cellular branch (formerly Marvell DSPC), are entitled to approved and benefited tax programs that include reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income. The first program was approved for MISL in fiscal 1996 and the most recent was started in fiscal 2013. The cellular branch has five approved programs and three benefited programs, with the first approved in fiscal 1991 and the most recent benefited enterprise started in fiscal 2011. The benefit period is generally 10 to 15 years and begins in the first year in which our Israeli divisions earn taxable income from the approved or benefited enterprises, provided the maximum period has not elapsed. Income from the approved or benefited enterprises is subject to reduced tax rates ranging between 0% and 10% or tax exemptions for fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2027. During fiscal 2007, each of the Swiss Federal Department of Economy and the Vaud Cantonal Tax Administration granted our subsidiary in Switzerland a 10 year tax holiday on revenues from research and design and wafer supply trading activities that will expire in 2016. In fiscal 2011, we met the requirements of the initial five year period and we will receive the ongoing tax holiday benefits provided that we continue to meet the ongoing requirements. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of our operations and profitability would be harmed. We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and investments, which could divert managements attention, cause ownership dilution to our shareholders, be difficult to integrate and adversely affect our results of operations and share price. We expect to continue to make acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and technologies, augment our end market coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance or joint venture opportunities in the future, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies typically entails many risks that could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. In addition, any acquisitions could materially harm our results of operations or liquidity as a result of either the issuance of dilutive equity securities, new debt or contingent liabilities, or payment of cash. Moreover, such acquisitions could divert our managements attention from other business concerns and also result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, we might lose key employees of the newly acquired organizations during the acquisition process. The acquisition of 28 Table of Contents another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. We rely on third-party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or changes in existing taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. For example, both the U.S. Congress and the G-20 (Group of Twenty Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors) may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices by regulators may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business or cause our stock price to decline. We rely upon the performance of our information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect electronic information, and the failure of any critical information technology system may result in serious harm to our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure and maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. These information technology systems include telecommunications, the Internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications and e-mail. These information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources including natural disasters, viruses, destructive or inadequate code, malware, power failures, cyber attacks, and other events. To the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks. We may incur significant costs in order to implement, maintain and/or update security systems that we feel are necessary to protect our information systems. A material breach in the security of our information systems could include the theft of our intellectual property or trade secrets, negatively impact our operations, or result in the compromise of personal and confidential information of our employees, customers or suppliers. While we believe that our information technology systems are appropriately controlled and that we have processes in place to adequately mitigate these risks, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe. To the extent that any system failure, accident or security breach results in disruptions or interruptions to our operations or the theft, loss or disclosure of, or damage to our data or confidential information, our reputation, business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, a miscalculation of the level of investment needed to ensure our technology solutions are current and up-to-date as technology advances and evolves could result in disruptions in our business should the software, hardware or maintenance of such items become out-of-date or obsolete. Furthermore, when we implement new systems and/or upgrade existing systems, there is a risk that our business may be temporarily disrupted during the period of implementation. 29 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from our collection of proprietary technologies that we have developed and acquired since our inception. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed that could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. We have been issued a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and have a significant number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future, all of which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price for our securities. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future. Please see Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies of our Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of a number of the litigation matters we are currently engaged in. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of current and former directors and officers for these lawsuits. In addition, due to the high volatility of our stock price, we may be vulnerable to securities class action litigation. In addition, as a result of a prior SEC settlement, we forfeited for three years our ability to invoke the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Because we could not benefit from the statutory safe harbor from June 2008 through June 2011, it may be more difficult for us to defend against any future claims based on any forward-looking statements issued during that timeframe. The ultimate outcome of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expenditures and the continued diversion of our managements time and attention from the operation 30 Table of Contents of our business, which could impede our business. In the event we were to receive an unfavorable outcome in any lawsuit, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities may be materially and adversely affected. We must comply with a variety of existing and future laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. We are subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. In addition, we are also subject to various industry requirements restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products. Although our management systems are designed to maintain compliance, we cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws and regulations. If we violate or fail to comply with any of them, a range of consequences could result, including fines, import/export restrictions, sales limitations, criminal and civil liabilities or other sanctions. We and our customers are also subject to various import and export laws and regulations. Government export regulations apply to the encryption or other features contained in some of our products. If we fail to continue to receive licenses or otherwise comply with these regulations, we may be unable to manufacture the affected products at foreign foundries or ship these products to certain customers, or we may incur penalties or fines. There is also a regulation to improve the transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals coming from the conflict zones in and around the Democratic Republic of Congo. New U.S. legislation includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and procedures regarding a manufacturers efforts to prevent the sourcing of such conflict minerals. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices. As a result, there may only be a limited pool of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. The costs of complying with these laws could adversely affect our current or future business. In addition, future regulations may become more stringent or costly and our compliance costs and potential liabilities could increase, which may harm our current or future business. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends at all or in any particular amount, and statutory requirements under Bermuda Law, as well as ongoing litigation, may require us to defer payment of declared dividends. In May 2012, we announced the declaration of our first quarterly cash dividend. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common shares will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of our company, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, statutory requirements under Bermuda law, developments in our ongoing litigation with CMU and other factors that the board of directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends at all or in any particular amounts. In addition, developments in ongoing litigation could affect our ability to make a dividend payment on a declared payment date until such time as we can meet statutory requirements under Bermuda law. A reduction in, a delay of, or elimination of our dividend payments could have a negative effect on our share price. 31 Table of Contents If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure