Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, can, will and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements regarding: revenue outlook for the second quarter of 2016 and for our products by end market; our anticipation that the rate of new orders and shipments will vary significantly from quarter to quarter; market acceptance of our products; our expectations about industry trends; future growth of our customers products, including the timing of any launches; the pricing of our products; future customer concentration; net revenue, cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue and operating expenses for future periods; the impact of legal proceedings and claims, including on the protection of our intellectual property; our ability to meet our capital needs for at least the next 12 months; our expectation that a significant percentage of our sales will continue to come from direct sales to key customers; future growth opportunities; our expectations regarding areas of revenue and operating income growth; the effectiveness of our hedges of foreign currency exposures; our plans regarding our investment portfolio; our expectations that quarterly operating results will fluctuate from quarter to quarter; general economic environment; arrangements with suppliers; our expectations regarding our facilities and the sufficiency of our facilities; our ability to execute our business strategy; our plan to strengthen and expand our relationship with customers; our ability to anticipate the needs of our customers; our expectations that average selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures; our ability to develop and introduce new products and achieve market acceptance of our products; our expectations regarding acquisitions and investments; demand for our products and the impact of seasonality on demand; gross margin and the events that may cause gross margin to fluctuate; 27 Table of Contents our operations and sales outside of the United States, including future sales in Asia; our plans for our share repurchase program and dividends; expected tax benefits we receive; and the anticipated features and benefits of our technology solutions. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted, include, but are not limited to: our dependence upon the hard disk drive and mobile and wireless markets, which are highly cyclical and intensely competitive; the outcome of pending or future litigation and legal proceedings, including our patent litigation action involving Carnegie Mellon University; our dependence on a small number of customers; our ability and the ability of our customers to successfully compete in the markets in which we serve; our reliance on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our products; our ability and our customers ability to develop new and enhanced products and the adoption of those products in the market; decreases in our gross margin and results of operations in the future due to a number of factors; our ability to estimate customer demand and future sales accurately, including the impact of lengthy and expensive product sales cycles; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for existing or new products and services; the impact of international conflict and continued economic volatility in either domestic or foreign markets; the effects of transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies; the risks associated with manufacturing and selling a majority of our products and our customers products outside of the United States; the impact of any change in our application of the United States federal income tax laws and the loss of any beneficial tax treatment that we currently enjoy; the effects of any potential acquisitions or investments; our ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact and costs associated with changes in international financial and regulatory conditions; and our maintenance of an effective system of internal controls. Additional factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth in the following discussion, as well as the risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a fabless semiconductor provider of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex System-on-a-Chip (SoC) and System-in-a-Package (SiP) devices, leveraging our extensive technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, and embedded and standalone integrated circuits. The majority of our product portfolio leverages the ARM technology portfolio. We also develop platforms that we define as integrated hardware along with software that incorporates digital computing technologies designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for data storage, enterprise-class Ethernet data switching, Ethernet physical-layer transceivers (PHY), mobile handsets, connectivity, Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices and other consumer electronics. We were incorporated in Bermuda in January 1995. 28 Table of Contents During the first quarter of fiscal 2016, we experienced an overall slowdown in demand from the storage end market, as well as from emerging markets, as we saw business conditions weaken overall in the semiconductor industry. As a result, net revenue in the three months ended May 2, 2015 of $724.3 million was down 24% compared to net revenue of $957.8 million in the three months ended May 3, 2014. Revenue from products for the storage end market declined 16% in the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. In addition, we saw lower revenue from products for the mobile and wireless end markets, which declined 44% in the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. Consequently, net income in the three months ended May 2, 2015 was lower at $14.1 million compared to $99.5 million in the three months ended May 3, 2014. Although we expect this slower demand environment to continue in our second quarter of fiscal 2016, we expect higher revenue in the second half of fiscal 2015 as demand begins to normalize. We continue to invest in new and innovative technologies as we believe this will enable us to emerge even stronger when the economic situation improves. We are also focused on effectively controlling our costs, which has led to improvement in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue, and improvement in total operating expenses. We expect revenue growth to be driven by areas such as mobile handsets, tablets, connectivity and smart home devices along with a continued focus on operational execution. In the storage market, we saw weaker than expected demand for HDD products. We continue to maintain our technology leadership and focus on developing industry-leading solutions such as DRAM-less NVMe products, which we expect will do well in the market. For our SSD products, the slowdown in demand was in-line with seasonality that typically affects our first fiscal quarter. Despite the drop in market share of one of our major customers, we are working to solidify our leadership position in the market over the next few years. In the mobile market, competition and pricing remain fierce, and negatively affected our operating result in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We saw weaker than normal demand due to an overall slowdown in smartphone production in China. In our business for the mobile end market, China Unicom recently launched the worlds first 399RMB 4G LTE smartphone using our quad-core 64-bit ARMADA Mobile PXA1908 mobile platform which is also used by China Mobile. This same 64-bit LTE platform has started shipping into global markets with tier-1 customers such as Samsung. In the wireless connectivity market, revenue was lower than expectations primarily due to weaker mobile shipments in China combined with normal seasonality in gaming consoles. Earlier this year, we introduced the 4x4 11ac Wave-2 Wi-Fi and SoC platform for enterprise access point and smart home gateway solutions. The Wave-2 significantly increases bandwidth available over the Wi-Fi link and network capacity for densely populated environments, extending wireless capabilities to a variety of new use cases such as real-time video streaming and wireless back-up. Our 4x4 11ac devices have been growing our market share in carrier grade access point, supporting tier-1 customers like Cisco Systems, Inc. More recently, Linksys announced the launch of their newest 2x2 AC router using our mainstream Wi-Fi technology. We believe we are well positioned to further expand into high-performance 4x4 MIMO product categories in both retail and service provider gateways. We are seeing new opportunities for our connectivity solutions across multiple market segments. In the fast-growing IoT end market, Wi-Fi and Zigbee devices are gaining strong adoption. Our EZ-Connect wireless microcontrollers have been well received and we have a strong design pipeline across a broad range of applications including lighting, appliances, home automation and other smart home and commercial IoT applications across China and North American regions. For example, Xiaomi launched a line of smart home products in the fall of 2014 based on our wireless microcontrollers. We are also an early partner in Apples HomeKit and we have several tier-1 customers designing HomeKit products using our EZ-Connect microcontrollers. Recently, we announced the open-sourcing of our Kinoma JS application framework, which is uniquely designed to build core applications of embedded devices using JavaScript. Our customers can create elegant, high-performance products across a wide variety of hardware platforms, using relatively little code thats easier to test, maintain and evolve. On the service provider side of the video business, a leading service provider in Korea launched their 4K platform using our ARMADA 1500 device and we expect several other service providers to start shipping their own version of Internet Protocol television and over-the-top hybrid set-top boxes using our ARMADA 1500 family of video SoC in the near future. For example, one of our leading service providers in France recently launched their set-top box based on the ARMDA 1500 PRO SoC. Demand in the quarter was weaker than expected in the networking market, but we continued to make progress in design wins with our networking SoC in areas such as network storage interconnect applications. We are also gaining share with telecommunication and access infrastructure customers. We continue to gain traction with our recently introduced Questflo product line of network search engines that broadens our growing networking product portfolio. Todays traditional TCAM-based solutions are unable to address future scaling requirements and multiple customers are actively engaged with us for next generation solutions. Our SRAM-based Questflo products are targeted for carrier customers and increase capacity using less power delivering better performance-power metrics compared to competitors. 29 Table of Contents Our cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2016 was lower compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2015. The mobile and wireless end markets generally have lower average gross margins than the rest of our business and changes in the revenue mix between end markets will affect cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue. We believe our financial position is strong and we remain committed to deliver shareholder value through our share repurchase and dividend programs. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $2.5 billion at May 2, 2015. We generated cash flow from operations of $58.9 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We paid cash dividends of $0.06 per share for a total of $30.9 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2016 and we recently announced a dividend of $0.06 per share to be paid in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. We repurchased 1.4 million of our common shares for $22.1 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2016. We are currently involved in a patent litigation action with CMU (See Risk Factors under Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of the risks associated with this matter and other patent litigation matters). A jury has awarded past damages of $1.17 billion, and the Court calculated damages, including enhancement, to total approximately $1.54 billion, and held that, under its decision, CMU is entitled to post judgment interest and an ongoing royalty. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties for the period of time commencing on the date ordered by the District Court, January 15, 2013, through May 2, 2015 could be as much as $450 million. On May 7, 2014, the District Court entered final judgment and on May 14, 2014, we filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C., which held a hearing for oral argument on April 7, 2015. We have secured certain surety bonds for the duration of the appeal to stay execution of judgment pending the appeal. See Note 10Commitments and ContingenciesSurety Bonds in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of these surety bonds. We strongly believe that we do not infringe on the methods described in the CMU patents and that our products use our own internally developed patented read channel technology. A significant number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronics products, including gaming devices and personal computers, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Holiday and back to school buying trends may at times negatively impact our results in the first and fourth quarter, and positively impact our results in the second and third quarter of our fiscal years. In addition, consumer electronics sales are heavily dependent on new product launch timelines and product refreshes. For example, our sales of wireless connectivity products may increase significantly during a period when one of our customers launches a new gaming console, and these sales may taper significantly after the initial launch period. Historically, a relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. Net revenue from one customer was 20% and 19% for the three months ended May 2, 2015 and May 3, 2014, respectively. Net revenue from a second customer was 14% and 11% for the three months ended May 2, 2015 and May 3, 2014, respectively. Net revenue from a third customer represented 10% of net revenue for the three months ended May 2, 2015. We also had net revenue from one distributor representing 12% and 10% for the three months ended May 2, 2015 and May 3, 2014, respectively. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of our distributors and believe these distributors sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk. Most of our sales are made to customers located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia. Sales to customers located in Asia represented 95% of our net revenue for the three months ended May 2, 2015 and May 3, 2014. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. A relatively large portion of our sales have historically been made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term agreements. In addition, the sales cycle for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Consequently, if anticipated sales and shipments in any quarter do not occur when expected, expenses and inventory levels could be disproportionately high, and our operating results for that quarter and future quarters may be adversely affected. In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 as fiscal 2011, the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 as fiscal 2012, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2013 as fiscal 2013, the fiscal year ending February 1, 2014 as fiscal 2014, the fiscal year ending January 31, 2015 as fiscal 2015 and the fiscal year ending January 30, 2016 as fiscal 2016. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP) requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from these estimates, and such differences could affect the results of operations reported in future periods. For a description of our critical accounting policies and estimates, please refer to the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2015. Results of Operations The following table sets forth information derived from our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Three Months Ended May 2, 2015 May 3, 2014 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Operating costs and expenses: Cost of goods sold 48.5 51.6 Research and development 38.7 30.8 Selling and marketing 5.0 4.0 General and administrative 5.7 3.2 Amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets 0.3 0.7 Total operating costs and expenses 98.2 90.3 Operating income 1.8 9.7 Interest and other income, net 0.7 0.2 Income before income taxes 2.5 9.9 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 0.6 (0.5 ) Net income 1.9 % 10.4 % Three months ended May 2, 2015 and May 3, 2014 Net Revenue Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Net revenue $ 724,288 $ 957,830 (24.4 )% Net revenue for the three months ended May 2, 2015 decreased by $233.5 million compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014 mainly due to lower sales of our mobile and wireless products. The decrease in net revenue was further affected by lower sales of products for the storage market due to weaker than expected demand from customers in general, as economic conditions weakened overall in the semiconductor industry. Our networking revenue also declined in the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014 from lower demand for enterprise switches and routers. We currently expect overall net revenue for the three months ending August 1, 2015 to be in the range of $710 million to $740 million. We expect revenue from products for the storage end market to decline while revenue from products for the mobile and wireless, and the networking end markets is anticipated to be flat to slightly up. 31 Table of Contents Cost of Goods Sold Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 351,153 $ 493,860 (28.9 ) % of net revenue 48.5 % 51.6 % Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was lower for the three months ended May 2, 2015 primarily due to declining revenue from our mobile and wireless products which have higher average cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue. In addition, we had lower write-downs of excess inventory and other manufacturing period costs. Our cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue may fluctuate in future periods due to, among other things, changes in the mix of products sold; the timing of production ramps of new products; increased pricing pressures from our customers and competitors, particularly in the consumer product markets that we are targeting; charges for obsolete or potentially excess inventory; changes in the costs charged by our foundry, assembly and test subcontractors; product warranty costs; changes in commodity prices such as gold; and the margin profiles of our new product introductions. We currently expect cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue for the three months ending August 1, 2015 to be slightly higher compared to the three months ended May 2, 2015. Share-Based Compensation Expense Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Cost of goods sold $ 1,547 $ 2,299 Research and development 24,781 20,368 Selling and marketing 2,577 2,928 General and administrative 4,316 4,374 $ 33,221 $ 29,969 Share-based compensation expense increased by $3.3 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. The increase reflects higher share-based compensation expense related to the performance-based awards granted to our executive officers in April 2014. In addition, lower share-based compensation expense in the three months ended May 3, 2014 includes the reversal of previously recognized expense associated with unvested equity awards that were cancelled as a result of the resignation in February 2014 of our former Chief Technology Officer. No such credit is reflected in the share-based compensation expense in the three months ended May 2, 2015. Restructuring Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Research and development $ $ 4,682 Selling and marketing 48 General and administrative 592 358 Write-off of acquired intangible assets 3,386 $ 592 $ 8,474 We recorded a total $0.6 restructuring charge in the three months ended May 2, 2015. There were no other significant activities that occurred in the three months ended May 2, 2015. See Note 8 Restructuring in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 32 Table of Contents Research and Development Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Research and development $ 280,114 $ 295,363 (5.2 )% % of net revenue 38.7 % 30.8 % Research and development expense decreased by $15.2 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. The decrease was attributable to $10.6 million of lower personnel-related costs primarily due to headcount reduction that occurred in Israel to streamline operations to align with our overall strategic plan during fiscal 2015. Additionally, that action resulted in higher restructuring charges of $4.7 million included in the three months ended May 3, 2014 compared to $0.1 million in the three months ended May 2, 2015. Selling and Marketing Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Selling and marketing $ 36,174 $ 38,358 (5.7 ) % of net revenue 5.0 % 4.0 % Selling and marketing expense decreased by $2.2 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. The decrease was attributable to $4.0 million of lower personnel-related costs due to lower headcount, which was partially offset by higher costs for certain marketing advertisement activities. General and Administrative Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) General and administrative $ 41,027 $ 30,573 34.2 % of net revenue 5.7 % 3.2 % General and administrative expense increased by $10.5 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. The increase was mostly driven by the effect of a $15.4 million cash payment to our Chief Executive Officer (see Note 13 Related Party Transactions in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements). This increase was partially offset by $3.4 million of lower legal expenses for on-going litigation matters, combined with slightly lower personnel-related costs due to lower headcount. Amortization and Write-Off of Acquired Intangible Assets Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets $ 2,568 $ 6,689 (61.6 ) % of net revenue 0.3 % 0.7 % Amortization and write-off of acquired intangible assets decreased by $4.1 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. The decrease reflects the effect of a charge included in the three months ended May 3, 2014 to write off $3.4 million of in-process research and development. There was no such charge in the three months ended May 2, 2015. In addition, amortization expense of acquired intangible assets declined $0.7 million as certain intangible assets have become fully amortized. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Interest and other income, net $ 5,167 $ 1,925 168.4 % of net revenue 0.7 % 0.2 % 33 Table of Contents Interest and other income, net, increased by $3.2 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014, primarily due to the recognition of foreign currency gains from the revaluation of our foreign currency denominated tax liabilities as the U.S. dollar strengthened during the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to the three months ended May 3, 2014. In addition, we had higher interest income due to overall higher interest rates and average cash balances. Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended May 2, May 3, % 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except percentage) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 4,329 $ (4,567 ) (194.8 )% % of net revenue 0.6 % (0.5 )% We had an effective tax rate of 23.5% in the three months ended May 2, 2015. Our income tax provision for the three months ended May 2, 2015 included the current income tax liability of $4.3 million, plus an additional provision of $3.1 million related to a $15.4 million cash payment to the Companys Chief Executive Officer (see Note 13 Related Party Transactions in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements), which were offset by a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits of $3.1 million. The net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits arose from the release of $4.0 million due to expiration of the statue of limitations in a non-U.S. jurisdiction, which was partially offset by penalties and interest of $0.9 million accrued on the outstanding unrecognized tax benefit balance. The income tax benefit for the three months ended May 3, 2014 had an effective tax rate of 4.8% and included the current income tax liability of $5.7 million, which was offset by tax benefits of $2.5 million from a net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits and $7.8 million from an increase in the net deferred tax assets because of the continued discussion with the Singapore tax authorities that resulted in an agreement for a major portion of the pre-tax income to be taxed at a new DEI. The net reduction in unrecognized tax benefits arose from the release of $4.9 million due to expiration of the statute of limitations, which was reduced by an increase in current unrecognized tax benefit estimates of $1.1 million and a $1.3 million tax expense related to the fiscal year 2014 tax return of a non-U.S. jurisdiction. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could increase or decrease significantly due to changes in tax law in various jurisdictions, new tax audits and changes in the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies within the next 12 months. Excluding these factors, uncertain tax positions may decrease by as much as $11 million from the lapse of statutes of limitation in various jurisdictions during the next 12 months. Government tax authorities from several non-U.S. jurisdictions are also examining returns. We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcomes related to our tax audits and that any settlement will not have a material effect on our results at this time. We operate under tax incentives in certain countries, which may be extended if certain additional requirements are satisfied. The tax incentives are conditional upon meeting certain employment and investment thresholds. The impact of these tax incentives decreased foreign taxes by $3.3 million in each of the three months ended May 2, 2015 and May 3, 2014. The benefit of the tax incentives on net income per share was $0.01 per share for the three months ended May 2, 2015 and less than $0.01 per share May 3, 2014. 34 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal source of liquidity as of May 2, 2015 consisted of approximately $2.5 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, of which approximately $900 million was held by foreign subsidiaries (outside Bermuda). Approximately $500 million of this amount held by foreign subsidiaries is related to undistributed earnings, which have been indefinitely reinvested outside of Bermuda. These funds are primarily held in China, Israel, the United States and Switzerland. We have plans to use such amounts to fund various activities outside of Bermuda including working capital requirements, capital expenditures for expansion, funding of future acquisitions, or other financing activities. If such funds were needed by the parent company in Bermuda or if the amounts were otherwise no longer considered indefinitely reinvested, we would incur a tax expense of approximately $150 million. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, exercise of employee stock options and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, any declared dividends and commitments for at least the next 12 months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, which are all subject to uncertainty. In addition, we are named as defendants to several litigation actions and an unfavorable outcome in any current litigation could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations. Specifically, with respect to the CMU litigation, a jury has awarded past damages of $1.17 billion, and CMU has sought pre-judgment interest, post-judgment interest, attorneys fees, and an injunction and/or ongoing royalties. Based on a series of post-trial rulings, the District Court calculated the damages including enhancement to total approximately $1.54 billion, and held that, under its decision, CMU is entitled to post judgment interest and an ongoing royalty. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties for the period of time commencing on the date ordered by the District Court, January 15, 2013, through May 2, 2015 could be as much as $450 million. On May 7, 2014, the District Court entered final judgment, from which we filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Washington, D.C., which held a hearing for oral argument on April 7, 2015. We have secured certain surety bonds for the duration of the appeal to stay execution of judgment pending the appeal. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies Surety Bonds in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of these surety bonds. We strongly believe that we do not infringe on the methods described in the CMU patents and that our products use our own internally developed patented read channel technology. See the section entitled Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements below for a discussion of the effects on liquidity from the CMU litigation. To the extent that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and cash generated by operations are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also enter into additional acquisitions of businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current shareholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing shareholders would be reduced. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common shares. On May 21, 2015, the Company announced that its board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.06 per share to be paid on July 1, 2015 to shareholders of record as of Jun 11, 2015. Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $58.9 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015. The cash inflows from operations for the three months ended May 2, 2015 were due to $77.9 million of net income adjusted for non-cash items and a negative effect from changes in working capital of $19.0 million. The cash outflow from working capital for the three months ended May 2, 2015 was primarily driven by an increase in inventory due to weaker than expected short-term demand, combined with decreases in accrued employee compensation primarily from the payment of the annual incentive compensation offset by additional employee stock purchase plan withholdings. The negative effect on working capital was partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable due to lower sales and an increase in accounts payable. Net cash provided by operating activities was $235.1 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014. The cash inflows from operations for the three months ended May 3, 2014 were primarily due to $165.0 million of net income adjusted for non-cash items and a positive effect from changes in working capital of $70.1 million. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $166.6 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $24.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014. For the three months ended May 2, 2015, net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to payment of $10.2 million purchase of equipment previously leased, $7.3 million for the purchase of property and equipment, and $3.6 million for the purchase of technology licenses. In addition to these payments, net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended May 2, 2015 included net cash outflows from purchases of available-for-sales securities of $392.9 million less the sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities of $247.5 million. For the three months ended May 3, 2014, net cash used in investing activities of $24.3 was primarily from the payment of $16.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment and $8.1 million for the purchase of technology licenses. 35 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $64.5 million for the three months ended May 2, 2015 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $35.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014. For the three months ended May 2, 2015, net cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to payments of our quarterly dividends of $30.9 million and repurchase of our common shares in the open market for $20.3 million under our share repurchase program. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended May 2, 2015 was also attributable to a $22.3 million minimum tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements. These cash outflows were partially offset by net proceeds of $13.0 million from the issuance of our common shares under our share-based plans. Net cash used in financing activities of $35.3 million for the three months ended May 3, 2014 was primarily attributable to payments of our quarterly dividends of $30.2 million. In addition, we paid $24.3 million for the minimum tax withholding on behalf of employees for net share settlements, which was partially offset by $19.1 million proceeds from the issuance of our common shares under our share-based plans. Subsequent to the end of the quarter through May 28, 2015, the Company repurchased an additional 0.9 million of its common shares for $12.9 million at an average price per share of $13.84. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities of financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities (SPEs), which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of May 2, 2015, we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. On May 14, 2014, we filed a Notice of Appeal to appeal the final judgment issued by the District Court in the CMU litigation. In order to stay the execution of the final judgment pending its appeal, we filed a supersedeas bond for $1.54 billion with the District Court. The bond was issued by a consortium of sureties authorized by the U.S. Treasury. If the judgment is affirmed after the completion of all appellate proceedings, and we do not thereafter fully satisfy the judgment within thirty days, the sureties are obligated under the bond to make payment to CMU. In support of the bond, we entered into separate indemnity agreements with each of the sureties to indemnify the sureties from all costs and payments made under the bond. The indemnity agreements did not require collateral to be posted at the time of the issuance of the bond. Therefore no cash is considered restricted as of the date of this filing. However, the indemnity agreements provide that each of the sureties have the right to demand to be placed in funds or call for collateral under pre-defined events. The indemnity agreements will remain outstanding for as long as the underlying bond remains outstanding. See also Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of this matter. The Court has required us to report ongoing royalties under the current judgment. Based on the royalty rate assessed by the District Court, such additional royalties for the period of time commencing on the date ordered by the District Court, January 15, 2013, through May 2, 2015 could be as much as $450 million. On November 14, 2014, we filed a second surety bond for $216 million and filed a commitment letter from the sureties to issue up to an additional $95 million in bonding under certain conditions. The second bond and commitment are secured by our campus located in Santa Clara, California, which has a carrying value of $138 million at May 2, 2015. We and CMU have agreed that the second bond and commitment satisfy the security for ongoing royalties while the appeal is pending. Contractual Obligations We presented our contractual obligations at January 31, 2015 in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year then ended. There have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business in those obligations during the three months ended May 2, 2015, other than as noted under the section entitled Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements above. Indemnification Obligations See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.