Item 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Resultsof Operations This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from those implied by the forward-looking statements. Words such as anticipates, expects, intends, plans, projects, believes, seeks, estimates, forecasts, targets, may, can, will, would and similar expressions identify such forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted include, but are not limited to: risks related to changes in general macroeconomic conditions such as economic slowdowns, inflation, stagflation, high or rising interest rates, financial institution instability and recessions or political conditions, such as the tariffs and trade restrictions with China, Russia and other foreign nations, and specific conditions in the end markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry and the U.S. National Science and Technology Councils designation of semiconductors as a critical and emerging technology; risks related to cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments, as well as the ability of our customers to manage inventory; risks related to our ability to design, develop and introduce new and enhanced products, in particular in the 5G, Cloud and Artificial Intelligence (AI) markets, in a timely and effective manner, as well as our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology; risks related to the ability of our customers, particularly in jurisdictions such as China that may be subject to trade restrictions (including the need to obtain export licenses) to develop their own solutions or acquire fully developed solutions from third-parties; risks related to our ability to successfully integrate and to realize anticipated benefits or synergies, on a timely basis or at all, in connection with our past, current, or any future acquisitions, divestitures, significant investments or strategic transactions; risks related to the highly competitive nature of the end markets we serve, particularly within the semiconductor and infrastructure industries; risks related to our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue including risks related to severe financial hardship or bankruptcy or other attrition of one or more of our major customers, particularly as our major customers comprise an increasing percentage of our revenue; risks related to our ability to execute on changes in strategy and realize the expected benefits from restructuring activities; risks related to our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging processes and our reliance on third parties to produce our products; risks related to our ability to scale our business; risks related to our debt obligations; risks related to the extension of lead time due to supply chain disruptions, component shortages that impact the costs and production of our products and kitting process, and constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; risks related to our ability to attract, retain and motivate a highly skilled workforce, especially engineering, managerial, sales and marketing personnel; risks related to any current and future litigation, regulatory investigations, or contractual disputes with customers that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business; risks related to gain or loss of a design win or key customer; risks related to seasonality or volatility related to sales into the infrastructure, semiconductor and related industries and end markets; 22 Table of Contents risks related to failures to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; risks related to failures to protect our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States; risks related to the potential impact of significant events or natural disasters, or the effects of climate change (such as drought, flooding, wildfires, increased storm severity, sea level rise, and power outages), particularly in certain regions in which we operate or own buildings, such as Santa Clara, California, and where our third-party manufacturing partners or suppliers operate, such as Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim; risks related to our sustainability programs; cybersecurity risks; risks related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other future pandemics, on the global economy and on our customers, suppliers, employees and business; and risks related to failures of our customers to agree to pay for NRE (non-recurring engineering) costs, failure to pay enough to cover the costs we incur in connection with NREs or non-payment of previously agreed NRE costs due to us. Additional factors which could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth in the following discussion, as well as the risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a leading supplier of data infrastructure semiconductor solutions, spanning the data center core to network edge. We are a fabless semiconductor supplier of high-performance standard and semi-custom products with core strengths in developing and scaling complex System-on-a-Chip architectures, integrating analog, mixed-signal and digital signal processing functionality. Leveraging leading intellectual property and deep system-level expertise, as well as highly innovative security firmware, our solutions are empowering the data economy and enabling the data center, enterprise networking, carrier infrastructure, consumer, and automotive/industrial end markets. Net revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 was $1.2 billion and was 12% lower than net revenue of $1.3 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2024. This was due to a decrease in sales from a majority of our end markets. Sales decreased from the carrier infrastructure end market by 75%, from the enterprise networking end market by 58%, from the consumer end market by 70% and from the automotive/industrial end market by 13%. The decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales from the data center end market by 87% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. We have seen strong revenue growth from our data center end market, driven by demand for our electro-optics products from AI applications. In addition, starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2025, we have also started to benefit from initial shipments of our custom AI compute products. In our enterprise networking and carrier infrastructure end markets, in response to a period of inventory correction and soft industry demand, customers have decreased their demand for our products. In addition, we have continued to see low demand from our OEM customers in China. To secure capacity over the long term, we have entered into and expect to continue to enter into capacity reservation arrangements with certain foundries and partners for substrates. See Note 5 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We expect that the U.S. governments export restrictions on certain Chinese customers to continue to impact our revenue. Moreover, concerns that U.S. companies may not be reliable suppliers as a result of these and other actions has caused, and may in the future cause, some of our customers in China to amass large inventories of our products well in advance of need or cause some of our customers to replace our products in favor of products from other suppliers. Customers in China may also choose to develop indigenous solutions, as replacements for products that are subject to U.S. export controls. In addition, there may be indirect impacts to our business that we cannot easily quantify such as the fact that some of our other customers products which use our solutions may also be impacted by export restrictions. See also Part II, Item IA, Risk Factors, including, but not limited to, the risk detailed under the caption Adverse changes in the political, regulatory and economic policies of governments in connection with trade with China and Chinese customers have reduced the demand for our products and damaged our business. 23 Table of Contents Capital Return Program. We remain committed to delivering stockholder value through our stock repurchase and dividend programs. Under the program authorized by our Board of Directors, we may repurchase shares of our common stock in the open-market or through privately negotiated transactions. The extent to which we repurchase our stock and the timing of such repurchases will depend upon market conditions, legal rules and regulations, and other corporate considerations, as determined by our management team. On March 7, 2024, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a $3.0 billion addition to the balance of its existing stock repurchase program. During the three months ended May 4, 2024, we repurchased 2.2 million shares of our common stock for $150.0 million. As of May 4, 2024, $3.1 billion remained available for future stock repurchases. As of May 4, 2024, a total of 315.0 million shares have been repurchased since inception of our current and previous stock repurchase programs for an aggregate total of $4.7 billion in cash. We returned $201.8 million to stockholders in the three months ended May 4, 2024 through $150.0 million in repurchases of shares of our common stock and $51.8 million in cash dividends. Cash and Short-Term Investments. Our cash and cash equivalents were $847.7 million at May 4, 2024, which were $103.1 million lower than our balance at February 3, 2024 of $950.8 million. Sales and Customer Composition. Our accounts receivable was concentrated with two customers at May 4, 2024, who represented a total of 70% of gross accounts receivable, compared with four customers at April 29, 2023, who represented 55% of gross accounts receivable. During the three months ended May 4, 2024, there were two customers in addition to one distributor, whose revenue as a percentage of net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenue. During the three months ended April 29, 2023, there was one customer, in addition to two distributors, whose revenue as a percentage of net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenue. Net revenue attributable to significant customers and distributors whose revenue as a percentage of net revenue was 10% or greater of total net revenue is presented in the following table: Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Customer: Customer A * 15% Customer B 15% * Customer C 11% * Distributor: Distributor A 39% 16% Distributor B * 11% *Less than 10% of net revenue. We regularly monitor the creditworthiness of our customers and distributors and believe these distributors sales to diverse end customers and geographies further serve to mitigate our exposure to credit risk. Most of our sales are made to customers with operations located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, and a majority of our products are manufactured outside the United States. Sales shipped to customers with operations in Asia represented approximately 73% of our net revenue in the three months ended May 4, 2024, and approximately 69% of our net revenue in the three months ended April 29, 2023. Because many manufacturers and manufacturing subcontractors of our customers are located in Asia, we expect that most of our net revenue will continue to be represented by sales to our customers in that region. For risks related to our global operations, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption We face additional risks due to the extent of our global operations since a majority of our products, and those of many of our customers, are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. The occurrence of any or a combination of the additional risks described below would significantly and negatively impact our business and results of operations. The development process for our products is long, which may cause us to experience a delay between the time we incur expenses and the time revenue is generated from these expenditures. We anticipate that the rate of new orders may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. For risks related to our sales cycle, see Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, including but not limited to the risk detailed under the caption We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties. If we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin. Conversely, we may have insufficient inventory or be unable to obtain the supplies or contract manufacturing capacity to meet demand, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potential loss of market share as well as damaged customer relationships. 24 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no material changes during the three months ended May 4, 2024 to our critical accounting policies and estimates from the information provided in the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2024. In the current macroeconomic environment, our estimates could require increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility. We continue to monitor and assess our estimates in light of developments, and as events continue to evolve and additional information becomes available, our estimates may change materially in future periods. Results of Operations The following table sets forth information derived from our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations expressed as a percentage of net revenue: Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 Net revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of goods sold 54.5 57.8 Gross profit 45.5 42.2 Operating expenses: Research and development 41.0 36.4 Selling, general and administrative 17.2 15.1 Restructuring related charges 0.4 4.5 Total operating expenses 58.6 56.0 Operating loss (13.1) (13.8) Interest and other loss, net (3.9) (3.8) Loss before income taxes (17.0) (17.6) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1.6 (4.8) Net loss (18.6) % (12.8) % Three months ended May 4, 2024 and April 29, 2023 Net Revenue Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Net revenue $ 1,160.9 $ 1,321.7 (12.2)% Our net revenue for the three months ended May 4, 2024 decreased by $160.8 million compared to net revenue for the three months ended April 29, 2023. This was due to a decrease in sales from a majority of our end markets. Sales decreased from the carrier infrastructure end market by 75%, from the enterprise networking end market by 58%, from the consumer end market by 70% and from the automotive/industrial end market by 13%. The decreases were partially offset by an increase in sales from the data center end market by 87% compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. The overall decreases in net revenue of 12% for the three months ended May 4, 2024 was primarily driven by lower unit shipments across all of our end markets except the data center end market, partially offset by higher average selling prices for certain products as well as an increase in demand for our optical products, driven by AI applications. 25 Table of Contents Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Cost of goods sold $ 633.1 $ 764.5 (17.2)% % of net revenue 54.5 % 57.8 % Gross profit $ 527.8 $ 557.2 (5.3)% % of net revenue 45.5 % 42.2 % Cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue decreased for the three months ended May 4, 2024 compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023, which was primarily due to a shift in product mix. As a result, gross margin for the three months ended May 4, 2024 increased by 3.3 percentage points compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. Research and Development Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Research and development $ 476.1 $ 480.7 (1.0)% % of net revenue 41.0 % 36.4 % Research and development expense was relatively flat in the three months ended May 4, 2024, compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Selling, general and administrative $ 199.9 $ 199.0 0.5% % of net revenue 17.2 % 15.1 % Selling, general and administrative expense was relatively flat in the three months ended May 4, 2024, compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. Restructuring Related Charges Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Restructuring related charges $ 4.1 $ 59.9 (93.2)% % of net revenue 0.4 % 4.5 % We recognized $4.1 million of total restructuring related charges in the three months ended May 4, 2024 as a result of our restructuring plan to streamline our organization and optimize resources. Refer to Note 8 Restructuring in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. 26 Table of Contents Interest and Other Loss, Net Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Interest expense $ (48.8) $ (52.7) (7.4)% Interest income and other, net 3.3 2.8 17.9% Interest and other loss, net $ (45.5) $ (49.9) (8.8)% % of net revenue (3.9) % (3.8) % Interest and other loss, net decreased by $4.4 million in the three months ended May 4, 2024, compared to the three months ended April 29, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in interest expense driven by lower outstanding term loan balances, partially offset by interest expense associated with the 2029 and 2033 Senior Notes issued during the third quarter of fiscal 2024. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended May 4, 2024 April 29, 2023 % Change (in millions, except percentage) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 17.8 $ (63.4) (128.1)% Our income tax expense for the three months ended May 4, 2024 was $17.8 million compared to a tax benefit of $63.4 million for the three months ended April 29, 2023. Our income tax expense of $17.8 million for the three months ended May 4, 2024 differed from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to a substantial portion of earnings or losses being taxed or benefited at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate, net of the impact of U.S. taxation of foreign operations, benefits from tax credits, valuation allowance releases, and discrete tax benefits and expenses for excess deductions and deficiencies on stock-based compensation, respectively. Our income tax benefit for the three months ended April 29, 2023 differed from the U.S. federal statutory tax rate of 21%, primarily due to a substantial portion of earnings or losses being taxed or benefited at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate, net of the impact of U.S. taxation of foreign operations, benefits from tax credits, valuation allowance releases, and discrete tax benefits and expenses for excess deductions and deficiencies on stock-based compensation, respectively. Our provision for incomes taxes may be affected by changes in the geographic mix of earnings with different applicable tax rates, acquisitions, changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of income tax audits, the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws and regulations. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those assets become deductible or creditable. We evaluate the recoverability of these assets, weighing all positive and negative evidence, and provide or maintain a valuation allowance for these assets if it is more likely than not that some, or all, of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. If negative evidence exists, sufficient positive evidence is necessary to support a conclusion that a valuation allowance is not needed. We consider all available evidence such as our earnings history including the existence of cumulative income or losses, reversals of taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, and tax planning strategies. In future periods, it is possible that significant positive or negative evidence could arise that results in a change in our judgment with respect to the need for a valuation allowance, which could result in a tax benefit, or adversely affect our income tax provision, in the period of such change in judgment. We also continue to evaluate potential changes to our legal structure in response to guidelines and requirements in various international tax jurisdictions where we conduct business. Additionally, please see the information in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the caption Changes in existing taxation benefits, tax rules or tax practices may adversely affect our financial results. 27 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal source of liquidity as of May 4, 2024 consisted of approximately $847.7 million of cash and cash equivalents, of which approximately $603.1 million was held by subsidiaries outside of the United States, a portion of which are deemed to be indefinitely reinvested. We manage our worldwide cash requirements by, among other things, reviewing available funds held by our foreign subsidiaries and the cost effectiveness by which those funds can be accessed in the United States. As of May 4, 2024, we had total borrowings outstanding of $4.2 billion, consisting of $3.5 billion of senior notes outstanding and $678.1 million outstanding under our 5-Year Tranche Loan (2026 Term Loan). During the three months ended May 4, 2024, we repaid $21.9 millionof the principal outstanding of the 2026 Term Loan. We have a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of up to $1.0 billion and a 5-year term (2023 Revolving Credit Facility). As of May 4, 2024, the 2023 Revolving Credit Facility is undrawn and will be available for draw down through April 14, 2028. For a description of our contractual obligations including debt and purchase commitments, see Note 4 Debt, and Note 5 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, see Note 9 Income Tax regarding tax related contingencies and uncertain tax positions in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We generally expect to satisfy these commitments with cash on hand and cash provided by operating activities. We may elect to factor trade accounts receivable from time to time as part of our overall liquidity and working capital management strategy. During the three months ended May 4, 2024, we generated cash from operations from the sale of certain trade accounts receivable on a non-recourse basis to a third-party financial institution pursuant to a factoring arrangement. See Note 11 Supplemental Financial Information in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations, and funds from our 2023 Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, investment requirements, any declared dividends, repurchases of our common stock and commitments (including those discussed in Note 5 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements) for at least the next twelve months. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of sales growth, market acceptance of our products, costs of securing access to adequate manufacturing capacity, the timing and extent of research and development projects and increases in operating expenses, all of which are subject to uncertainty. To the extent that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash generated by operations, and funds available under our 2023 Revolving Credit Facility are insufficient to fund our future activities, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. We may also acquire additional businesses, purchase assets or enter into other strategic arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek debt or equity financing. Additional equity financing or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to our current stockholders. If we elect to raise additional funds, we may not be able to obtain such funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, the equity or debt securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to our common stock. Future payment of a regular quarterly cash dividend on our common stock and our planned repurchases of common stock will be subject to, among other things, the best interests of the Company and our stockholders, our results of operations, cash balances and future cash requirements, financial condition, developments in ongoing litigation, statutory requirements under Delaware law, U.S. securities laws and regulations, market conditions and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. Our dividend payments and repurchases of common stock may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase stock at all or in any particular amounts. 28 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended May 4, 2024 was $324.5 million. We had a net loss of $215.6 million adjusted for the following non-cash items: amortization of acquired intangible assets of $264.9 million, stock-based compensation expense of $136.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $72.6 million, deferred income tax benefit of $22.2 million, and $21.8 million of net loss from other non-cash items. Cash inflow from working capital of $65.8 million for the three months ended May 4, 2024 was primarily driven by decreases in accounts receivable, prepaid expenses and other assets, and inventory, partially offset by decreases in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities, accrued employee compensation, and accounts payable. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to decreased sales. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily driven by a decrease in prepaid ship and debits due to lower inventory balances at distributors, a decrease in prepaid corporate income tax, partially offset by payments on supply capacity reservation agreements, net of refunds. The decrease in inventory was primarily a result of managing the supply chain in a slower demand environment. The decrease in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities was primarily driven by lower ship and debit claims accrual due to lower inventory balances at distributors, interest payments net of accruals, and a decrease in stock rotation accruals. The decrease in accrued employee compensation was due to bonus payout of our annual employee bonus plan. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended April 29, 2023 was $208.4 million. We had a net loss of $168.9 million adjusted for the following non-cash items: amortization of acquired intangible assets of $270.0 million, stock-based compensation expense of $143.2 million, deferred income tax benefit of $139.1 million, depreciation and amortization of $78.4 million, restructuring related impairment charges of $10.1 million, and $12.8 million of net loss from other non-cash items. Cash inflow from working capital of $1.9 million for the three months ended April 29, 2023 was primarily driven by decreases in accounts receivable, inventory, and prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by decreases in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities and accrued employee compensation. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to timing of shipments and a reduction of revenue due to higher customer inventories. The decrease in inventory was primarily a result of managing the supply chain in a slower demand environment. The decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily driven by a decrease in prepaid ship and debits due to lower inventory balance at distributors resulting from lower shipments to and higher sales at distributors, partially offset by prepayments on supply capacity reservation agreements. The decrease in accounts payable was primarily due to the timing of payments. The decrease in accrued liabilities and other non-current liabilities was primarily driven by lower ship and debit claims accrual due to lower inventory balance at distributors resulting from lower shipments to and higher sales at distributors, partially offset by increases in restructuring accruals and income tax payable. The decrease in accrued employee compensation was due to bonus payout. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended May 4, 2024, net cash used in investing activities of $101.9 million was primarily driven by purchases of property and equipment of $91.5 million. For the three months ended April 29, 2023, net cash used in investing activities of $102.7 million was primarily driven by purchases of property and equipment of $99.8 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended May 4, 2024, net cash used in financing activities of $325.7 million was primarily attributable to $150.0 million repurchases of common stock, $74.1 million for tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, $51.8 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $30.2 million payments on technology license obligations, and $21.9 million repayment of debt principal, partially offset by $2.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans. For the three months ended April 29, 2023, net cash provided by financing activities of $11.6 million was primarily attributable to $200.0 million drawdown from our 2023 Revolving Credit Facility and $7.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans, partially offset by $72.6 million for tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for net share settlements, $51.4 million for payment of our quarterly dividends, $50.0 million payments on technology license obligations, and $21.9 million repayment of debt principal. 29 Table of Contents Capital Resources and Material Cash Requirements A summary of our capital resources and material cash requirements is presented in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2024. We also discuss updates of our significant commitments in Note 5 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Other than as described above, there were no material changes to our capital resources and material cash requirements during the three months ended May 4, 2024. Indemnification Obligations See Note 5 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.