Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof. Unless required by law, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements. 3 Table of Contents In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to Marvell, we, us, our or the Company mean Marvell Technology Group Ltd. and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are one of the worlds largest fabless semiconductor providers of high-performance application-specific standard products. Our core strength of expertise is the development of complex System-on-a-Chip (SoC) devices, leveraging our extensive technology portfolio of intellectual property in the areas of analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded and standalone ARM-based microprocessor integrated circuits. We also develop platforms that we define as integrated hardware and software that incorporate digital computing technologies, designed and configured to provide an optimized computing solution compared to individual components. Our broad product portfolio includes devices for data storage, enterprise-class Ethernet data switching, Ethernet physical-layer transceivers (PHY), handheld cellular, Ethernet-based wireless networking, personal area networking, Ethernet-based PC connectivity, control plane communications controllers, video-image processing and power management solutions. Our products serve diverse applications used in carrier, metropolitan, enterprise and PC-client data communications and storage systems. Additionally, we serve the consumer electronics market for the convergence of voice, video and data applications. Our core technologies were initially focused on the storage market, where we provide high-performance products to storage companies, such as Hitachi Ltd., Samsung Semiconductor, Seagate Technology, Toshiba Corporation and Western Digital Corporation. We subsequently applied our technology to the networking market, where we provide industry-leading PHY wired and wireless Ethernet-switching solutions that enable the data transmission between communications systems to manufacturers of high-speed networking and wireless equipment, including Brocade Communication Systems, Inc , Cisco Systems, Inc., Dell Inc., Hewlett Packard Company, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., Intel Corporation, and Juniper Networks, Inc. Our wireless technology has a variety of uses in emerging consumer electronic devices, including enabling applications such as wireless connectivity, gaming devices, streaming audio, video, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and wireless printing, for products offered by companies such as Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard, Microsoft Corporation and Sony Corporation. We also provide communications and applications processor products for cellular and handheld solutions with customers such as Research in Motion Limited, Microsoft and Motorola. Lastly, we provide printer SoC and system level solutions for both inkjet and laser jet printer systems for companies such as Hewlett Packard. We also have applied our technology by introducing integrated circuits and modules that provide power management broadly to electronic devices. We were incorporated in Bermuda in January 1995. Our registered address is Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton HM 12, Bermuda, and our telephone number there is (441) 296-6395. The mailing address of our business offices in Bermuda is Argyle House, 41A Cedar Avenue, Hamilton, HM 12, Bermuda. The address of our United States operating subsidiary is Marvell Semiconductor, Inc., 5488 Marvell Lane, Santa Clara, California 95054, and our telephone number there is (408) 222-2500. We also have operations in many countries, including Canada, China, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Netherlands, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest January 31. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we refer to the fiscal year ended January 27, 2007 as fiscal 2007, the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 as fiscal 2008, the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009 as fiscal 2009, the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 as fiscal 2010, the fiscal year ended January 29, 2011 as fiscal 2011 and the fiscal year ending January 28, 2012 as fiscal 2012. 4 Table of Contents Available Information Our website address is located at www.marvell.com. The information contained in our website does not form any part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file this material with, or furnish it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Industry Background The semiconductor industry has evolved over the last five decades primarily due to the rapid and systematic advancements in photolithography techniques and new materials used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, which has enabled the fabrication of transistor devices with greater features and functions in ever smaller chip sizes. As transistor line widths shrink over time, transistor density increases proportionally, enabling the manufacture of ever more complex devices in a fixed area of silicon. This phenomenon, known as Moores Law, states that with the transition to each new successive process node, transistor device size will shrink by 0.7, along with a 2 increase in the number of transistors, and a 1.5 increase in device performance. Furthermore, the transition to ever smaller process geometries results in proportionally lower power consumption of integrated circuits. The effect of Moores Law on the semiconductor industry has been a rapid increase in the processing speed, the device density of integrated circuits and improved power efficiency. This has enabled the integration of multiple complex functions onto a single piece of silicon, which in the past would have required multiple discrete integrated circuits. Concurrently, with the advances in semiconductor technology, there has been an evolutionary shift toward standards-based communication interconnect protocols, such as Ethernet. This has given rise to a large and diverse number of electronic systems suppliers to address the simultaneous transmission of voice, video, audio and data through both wired and wireless connections. The capability to transmit and process information has led to both business enterprise and consumer electronic devices sharing and communicating ever larger amounts of information for many different applications. Due in part to the ongoing evolution of both semiconductor and communications technology, the bandwidth demanded by users has continued to expand at an exponential rate. Additionally, as the bandwidth demand of both enterprise and consumer users increase, there has been a commensurate increase in the required amount of data storage capacity. We believe the market effects enabled by both the advances in semiconductor and communication technologies will provide a large and growing market for our products, technologies and intellectual property capabilities. Within most modern electronic systems, in both the enterprise and consumer application domain, the device interconnects and data transmission occurs within the analog signal domain. However, due to advanced technologies, modern systems approaches and new algorithms, most new products convert the analog signals into digital signals to process the information. Given the high volume and cost sensitive nature of both enterprise and consumer applications, it is very beneficial to be able to integrate many of the analog and digital functions onto a single integrated circuit, which can help to increase system performance, lower costs and lower overall power consumption. As a result, these devices require a combination of both analog and digital integrated circuit technologies, more commonly known as mixed-signal technology. Historically, the ability to manufacture mixed-signal technologies required the use of expensive, non-scalable semiconductor manufacturing process technologies. However, to achieve price points that will accelerate the acceptance of these highly integrated mixed-signal devices, a small number of semiconductor suppliers, including us, have invested in the fundamental research and development capability, which allows for the use of high volume, lower cost and scalable complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS) fabrication technology. 5 Table of Contents Because the processing requirements of these mixed-signal integrated circuits continue to expand with the increased performance and sophistication of the devices in which they are embedded, many of these integrated circuits are now also integrating high performance embedded microprocessors and complex digital signal processors to handle this increased workload. This minimizes or eliminates the need for a costly host central processing unit (CPU). With improvements in the performance of such embedded microprocessors, devices can further expand their capabilities while at the same time minimizing power requirements. Many of these new, sophisticated devices are also handheld battery powered devices in which minimizing the power consumption is critical to maximize the life of the battery. Utilizing highly integrated chips as well as chips designed to optimize power efficiency is very important for these handheld devices. Additionally, advanced digital power management solutions that regulate the power supplied to the integrated circuits in an efficient and cost-effective manner are becoming more and more important to help reduce overall power consumption as well as the total size of the power management solution. Given the increased sophistication of these devices, the high level of semiconductor integration, and the constant time-to-market pressures of the system manufacturers, it is becoming very important for a semiconductor manufacturer to develop a complete system level understanding of a device in order to provide optimal integration, software support and system reference designs to assist in timely product development. Our Markets and Products We target computers, communications-related equipment and consumer devices that require the benefits of highly integrated mixed-signal devices for high-speed data storage, transmission and management. We also target a broad range of electronic products that can utilize our power management solutions. Additionally, we are developing new products that are targeted for new markets that we currently do not serve. Our current product offerings are primarily in three broad end markets: mobile and wireless, storage, and networking. Fiscal Years Ended January 29, 2011 January 30, 2010 January 31, 2009 (in millions, except for percentages) Mobile and Wireless $ 1,124 31 % $ 532 19 % $ 726 25 % Storage 1,651 46 % 1,575 56 % 1,463 50 % Networking 683 19 % 596 21 % 591 20 % Other 154 4 % 105 4 % 171 6 % Total $ 3,612 $ 2,808 $ 2,951 Mobile and Wireless Communications Processors Our communications processors are highly integrated cellular SoC devices that enable mobile handset developers to address dual-mode EDGE, WCDMA (3G) and TD-SCDMA (China 3G) mobile network standards. Our communications processors incorporate a high-performance multi-band baseband modem processor and our application processor in a highly integrated, low-power SoC platform for voice and computation-intensive mobile data applications. Our family of communications and applications processors is based on our ARM-compliant micro-architecture, thus allowing for software compatibility across our entire cellular product portfolio enabling handset designers a faster time-to-market advantage. The PXA920 is a single-chip solution enabling mass market availability in the TD smartphone market. This solution combines a communications processor, applications processor, power management, and radio-frequency 6 Table of Contents (RF) devices. In February 2011, we announced the PXA978 worldphone. The PXA 978 is a single chip solution with 3G TD-SCDMA combining GHz performance with advanced 3D graphics and 1080P multimedia. This device features Release 7, 3G UNTS and TD-SCDMA with HSPA and is designed to enable handsets to be able to have access anywhere in the world on multiple networks. Applications Processors Our ARMADA family of applications processors is designed to deliver advanced integration, leading multimedia performance, and superior power savings. The ARMADA applications processors are highly integrated SoC devices based on Marvell-designed ARM-compliant micro-architecture. Our applications processors are ideal for high-performance, low-power, space-sensitive devices enabling mobile and consumer product manufacturers the ability to integrate advanced applications within a range of power specifications to help differentiate their offerings. Each of the ARMADA family devices is optimized to meet specific end-market requirements. The ARMADA 100 devices are targeted at the e-reader, digital picture frame and connected consumer market. The ARMADA 100 is optimized for consumer devices with medium-sized display screens, supporting integrated multimedia acceleration with WMMX2 technology, 2D graphics rendering, and up to 720p video display with performance ranging from 400 megahertz up to 1.2 gigahertz (GHz). The ARMADA 500 devices are targeted at the smartbook, thin-client, computing tablet and mobile internet device market. The ARMADA 500 is optimized to deliver PC-class performance of up to 1.5GHz at a fraction of the power consumption. The devices integrate hardware capabilities including high-definition 1080p video decoding, an embedded 3D graphics processing engine supporting 15 million triangles per second rendering, and a host of PC-class user interfaces including serial advanced technology attachment (SATA), USB 2.0, peripheral connect interface (PCI) Express and Gigabit Ethernet (GbE). The ARMADA 600 devices are targeted at smartphones, mobile gaming, portable media players and mobile personal information appliances market. The ARMADA 600 is optimized to provide up to 1GHz while consuming very low power providing extended battery life. The devices integrate multiple advanced hardware blocks including a powerful 3D graphics engine supporting 45 million triangles per second rendering, a hardware implemented 1080p encode/decode engine supporting MPEG-4, H.264, VC-1 and On-2 specifications, and a host of advanced mobile device interfaces including MIPI controller, NAND flash and DDR memory controllers, USB 2.0, and LCD controller. The ARMADA 1000 devices are targeted at next-generation consumer video devices including Blue-ray players, digital TV, advanced media players and set-top-box applications market. The ARMADA 1000 is designed around a Marvell-designed dual-core ARMv7 CPU, with each core independently delivering performance up to 1.2GHz. The devices integrate a dual channel, high definition multi-format decoding processor in conjunction with Marvells award-winning QDEO video post processing engine, along with a full suite of integrated peripherals including dual-SATA interfaces, DDR2/3 and NAND memory controllers, FastEthernet, USB2.0, HDMI and PCI Express (PCIe). Recently we introduced Kinoma, which serves as an open software platform for building the user interface for digital devices. Device manufacturers can use Kinoma as a starting point for their own digital devices, customizing and enhancing as necessary to achieve their product goals. Kinoma includes a modern framework for creating high performance, network connected, media rich applications. An improved integrated solution should allow developers and system integrators to more easily take advantage of the powerful underlying hardware. Through a comprehensive ecosystem comprised of third party providers of communications and applications processors, tools and support, we assist select ecosystem partners in their platform solutions development, which can speed up the time-to-market for cellular, mobile and next-generation consumer devices. 7 Table of Contents All of the ARMADA applications processors provide extensive support to operating systems, including Linux, Android, Windows Mobile, Windows CE, Flash 10 and industry standard application processing interfaces such as OpenMAX, OpenGL and OpenVG. Wireless We sell both standalone wireless products as well as combination devices which incorporate wireless, Bluetooth and FM radio capability (personal area networking products). The Avastar multi-function wireless networking family of highly integrated wireless products is targeted at consumer electronics devices including tablets, handsets, digital TV, blu-ray players, digital media adapters, gaming consoles, portable media players, e-readers, printers, digital cameras, smartbooks, laptops, service provider gateways, consumers and enterprise access points and next-generation consumer devices. The Avastar devices are Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.11n solutions based around our intellectual property supporting up to three spatial stream configurations, which support wireless data transmission rates between 150 Megabits per second (Mbps) to 450 Mbps, in both the 2.4GHz and 5GHz bands. We offer highly integrated, low-power wireless devices, which combine our IEEE 802.11n wireless local area network (WLAN) core with a Bluetooth 4.0 enhanced data rate, high speed, low energy core, in addition to a world-wide FM radio transceiver. These products support simultaneous use of Wi-Fi, Bluetooth and FM applications, ideally suited for the low power requirements of any mobile devices. By harmonizing the interaction of an integrated, shared radio frequency front-end with effective silicon arbitration techniques and intelligent software, Avastar devices deliver best-in-class radio coexistence. In addition, in February 2011, we announced the Avastar 8797, a multi-function MIMO device, which is the preferred solution for any products requiring high, dependable through-put for applications such as videos. The Avastar family also includes the ability to simultaneously act as a full featured 802.11n access point while connected to an existing network. The devices also have an integrated WLAN authentication and privacy infrastructure hardware engine supporting SMS4 encryption to address the needs of the expanding market in China. Storage Products We offer a broad range of storage products targeted for hard disk drives, tape drive electronics, optical disk drives, solid-state flash drives hybrid drives, and storage subsystems technology. We offer both discrete components targeted at specific storage-class requirements, as well as complex SoC solutions, which integrate multiple functional blocks onto a single device. Our integrated drive electronics platform is a flexible SoC solution that provides increased performance, reduced power consumption and cost savings essential for next-generation hard disk drives. We provide storage SoC solutions for enterprise, desktop and mobile storage systems. Utilizing our leading-edge read channel devices as the core for integration, we have the flexibility to either add any number of functional blocks available in our portfolio or to integrate customer provided intellectual property. With our high data transfer rates, our advanced SoC platform provides solutions that have the ability to span multiple product generations, allowing for product life cycle risk-reduction, lower cost of ownership and accelerated time-to-market. Our current SoC products incorporate the read channel, hard disk controller (HDC), embedded memory and one or more Marvell designed ARM-microprocessors into a single integrated circuit. Tape Drive Controllers: Our solutions provide our tape drive customers with Small Computer System Interface (SCSI), serial attached SCSI (SAS) and Fibre Channel I/O interfaces. These devices contain integrated reduced instruction set computer (RISC) processors, buffer controller, direct memory access and a microprocessor interface. 8 Table of Contents Read Channel: A read channel is a mixed-signal integrated circuit that provides the interface between the analog signals stored on magnetic disk drives and the digital signals that computers can understand and manipulate. The performance of the read channel is a key factor to the overall performance of the hard disk drive storage system. Read channel performance is measured as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The higher the SNR value of a read channel circuit, the better the circuit is able to separate valid data from system induced noise. Our ability to consistently develop multiple generations of read channel circuits with industry leading SNR performance has enabled our customers to improve finished drive yields and to yield higher density drives given a fixed aerial density platter. In the development of our read channel products we utilize advanced mixed-signal and digital signal processing technologies. Our read channel devices utilize a variety of advanced signaling algorithms including advanced partial response maximum likelihood or the low density parity check (LDPC) algorithm. We anticipate the majority of our future storage SoC solutions for high-density drives will be based on LDPC read channel technology. Our technology incorporates an efficient data-encoding scheme in addition to advanced digital filtering and data-detection techniques. Our read channel products are designed to allow customers to achieve high areal density in addition to fast data transfer rates for their hard disk drives. Our read channels utilize custom digital and analog blocks running at a very high frequency while achieving low power consumption. Hard Disk Controller: A HDC is an integrated circuit that provides high performance input/output (I/O) interface control between the hard disk drive read channel, servo motor controller and the host system. The HDC consists of a buffer controller, multi-core ARM-based CPUs, a disk formatter and host bus interface. We support a variety of host system interfaces, including SATA, SAS and Fibre Channel. These host bus interfaces can support data transfer rates of 1.5 Gigabits per second (Gbps) scalable up to 6 Gbps. Solid-State Drive Controllers: Our solid-state drive (SSD) controllers are targeted at the growing market for SLC or MLC NAND flash-based storage systems, both for the enterprise and consumer client market. Our SSD controllers leverage significant portions of intellectual property and software developed for the hard disk drive market, including our SAS, SATA and PCIe, our embedded ARM-based CPUs and data formatting logic. Additionally, we incorporate unique intellectual property, which address wear-leveling algorithms required to assure stable device operation. In addition to traditional SSDs, we have leveraged our technology leadership in SSD controllers and have developed a family of SSD controller-based solutions designed for the smartphone end market. Hybrid Drive Controllers: A hybrid drive controller is designed to leverage the low cost of a HDC with the performance of a SSD. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, we introduced a 6 Gbps per second SATA controller powered by our HyperDuo technology. This solution can control both an HDC and a SSD to create a low-cost, high capacity drive using a small amount of flash memory to boost performance. Storage-System Products: Our storage system solutions leverage our proprietary 6Gbs SAS intellectual property and address the market for enterprise-class redundant array of inexpensive disks (RAID), value-class RAID and complex storage area network solutions. Our storage system products enable customers to manage and aggregate data from arrays of multiple hard disk drives or from multiple servers. Our portfolio of storage system solutions includes devices which convert data from multiple formats (SATA to SAS, PCIe to SAS), devices which aggregate up to 24 individual ports of lower bandwidth SAS or SATA formatted data and consolidates this data into high bandwidth 6 Gbps streams. 9 Table of Contents Networking Switching Products We have a broad portfolio of switching solutions for the enterprise networking, carrier access and small office/home office/residential networking markets. Our switching products enable voice, video, and data traffic to be seamlessly carried through the network with full fidelity. Additionally, we are supporting the increased usage of packet-based Internet Protocol communications of real-time traffic such as telephony and video-on-demand. The Prestera architecture is our eighth generation of Ethernet-based switching solutions. The Prestera product family is designed to enable system manufacturers to build a wide range of products that address high-density Gigabit and 10GbE solutions for various network topologies, accommodating varying bandwidth requirements, including wide area networks (WANs), metropolitan area networks (MANs), enterprise networks, and small-and-medium size business networks. Using the Prestera switching architecture, manufacturers can introduce high-performance, feature-rich and cost-effective products that not only meet todays market needs but also provide a scalable platform for future requirements. The Prestera MX multi-layer switching family of products are fully integrated 10GbE, 1GbE and 100 Megabits per second (Mbps) Fast Ethernet wire-speed configurable devices targeted at metropolitan edge and access systems in service provider networks. The Prestera MX devices target MAN switching applications, including Layer 2/3 switching, Layer 2 to Layer 5 traffic classification for millions of flows, wire-speed access control lists, traffic policing and shaping, longest prefix match, network address translation and Multi-Protocol Label Switching functions. The Prestera EX family of packet processors is designed to deliver multi-layer enterprise switching to drive GbE to the desktop with exceptional price and performance ratios and industry-leading features. The Prestera EX family is designed to provide a complete line of Fast Ethernet, GbE and 10GbE switching solutions with 100% software compatibility. The Prestera DX family of packet processors offers integration and performance targeted at desktop GbE switches in small-and-medium size business networks. The Prestera DX packet processors are designed to enable system vendors to design affordable, plug-and-play, high-density, standalone switches, which address the cost-sensitive unmanaged and lightly managed desktop switching market. The Prestera CX family of packet processors was introduced and it addresses the high density 10Gigabit solutions for new generation of datacenters and optical broadband. The Prestera CX switching product family offers fully integrated 100GbE and 40GbE devices. The first Prestera CX family is based on a configurable 480 Gbps packet processing engine, which can support up to 48 ports of 10GbE on a single chip, as well as being configurable to support multiple 40GbE ports. This enables applications, such as server virtualization, cloud computing and software, as a service. The family of fabric processors and crossbar switch fabrics offers the ability to expand and scale network topologies, which leverage the Prestera DX packet processors. The switch fabric processors are single-chip traffic managers with an integrated crossbar and Serializer-Deserializer (SERDES) targeted for low cost, high-performance scaling of stackable and chassis-based systems in data centers, multi-tenant buildings and enterprise wiring closets. Our integrated LinkStreet family of 10/100 Fast Ethernet and Gigabit switches support from three to 11 ports. Our LinkStreet products are targeted to address the small office/home office Ethernet switch market, where cost, ease-of-use, and flexibility are of paramount importance. These integrated switch products can reduce design complexities and time-to-market barriers typically associated with switch development. The small office/home office switches with integrated transceivers incorporate advanced features such as smart power 10 Table of Contents management, which dramatically reduces power consumption by more than 50%, and Virtual Cable Tester (VCT) technology, which performs cable diagnostics to reduce overall network support costs. Support for emerging technologies, such as Audio Video Bridging (AVB) and Energy Efficient Ethernet (EEE), further enhance the LinkStreet family. With these enhanced features, these switches are targeted at applications such as standalone switches, media converters, IP phones, firewall appliances, wireless and wired gateway routers and wireless access points. Our LinkStreet family of highly integrated, 100Mbps full-wire-speed gateway devices is designed for small-and-medium size businesses, small office/home office and residential gateway routers. LinkStreet is a gateway family of single chip, mixed-signal SoC devices, which includes a high performance ARM-based embedded microprocessor plus a multi-port 100Mbps Fast Ethernet switch, media access controller (MAC) and PHY interface in addition to built-in VCT cable diagnostics capability to reduce overall network support costs. These devices include integrated peripheral interfaces, such as USB, Secure Digital Input Output, and Time-division Multiplexing. Additionally, the newer devices in this family also support emerging technologies, such as AVB and EEE. These LinkStreet products include comprehensive hardware reference designs with the latest firewall capabilities to isolate and protect WAN and local area networks (LANs) from virus intrusion and software development kits enabling lower cost of development and faster time to market for the design of combined wired and wireless gateways. Communications Controller and Embedded Processor Products We have a broad offering of high performance and highly integrated system control-plane communication controllers and fully integrated embedded processors. These devices offer both integrated embedded CPU technology as well as variants that can support discrete embedded RISC microprocessors. Our devices are used in a broad range of applications including routers, switches, digital subscriber line access multiplexers, access concentrators, wireless base stations, VoIP gateways and storage area networks. Our Discovery Innovation series is a complete SoC solution based on our embedded CPU technology. By leveraging our Discovery system controllers and deep expertise in ARM instruction-set-compliant CPUs, the Discovery Innovation SoCs offer one of the highest levels of integration in the industry. The high-performance, low-power, highly integrated processors are ideally suited to a wide range of applications ranging from sophisticated routers, switches and wireless base stations to high-volume laser printer applications. Our high-performance Discovery system controllers support MIPS and PowerPC CPU-based communication systems. Our controllers are used in systems developed by leading original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) for the Internet infrastructure. These include enterprise switches, LAN to WAN edge routers, enterprise routers, access concentrators, telecom equipment and laser printers. Our system controllers contain all of the key control blocks needed to build high-performance 32-bit and 64-bit CPU subsystems, including a DRAM controller, a peripheral device controller, direct memory access engines, timers, PCI and interrupt controllers. These system controllers are designed to provide system designers with the ability to match their CPU performance to the targeted overall system price/performance. Our portfolio Discovery system controllers are generally software-compatible with older generations, thereby supporting faster time-to-market, lower product development risk and lower cost of ownership due to the re-use of system software, which might otherwise need to be re-developed. The Kirkwood product family is the third generation of our highly integrated embedded processor SoC. The Kirkwood family is based on our embedded CPU technology, providing users with single and dual-CPU cores, which have been highly optimized to maximize the overall computing performance while simultaneously lowering total device power consumption. Purposely built to address the needs for network connected consumer electronic equipment, this family provides the performance, flexibility, interfaces and price points that fit the needs of the digital economy. Applications for Kirkwood SoCs include home gateways, set-top boxes, network storage, printers, media players and point-of-service terminals. 11 Table of Contents In fiscal 2011, we announced ARMADA XP (Extreme Performance), a quad-core processing, enterprise-class cloud computing platform. This platform integrates four Marvell designed ARM-compliant 1.6Hz CPU cores along with a host of input/output (I/O) peripherals to offer one of the highest levels of integration in the industry. By employing an advanced design methodology and process technology, the ARMADA XP is optimized to consume low power while delivering the best performance-per-watt- to empower emerging cloud computing applications ranging from high performance networking and web servers to high volume home server products like Network Attached Storage and media servers. In cloud computing environments, mobile servers like those powered by ARMADA XP are the key link in a seamless, unified ecosystem of mobile connected devices, information appliances and smart home appliances. Our AVANTA family provides solutions for next generation broadband, based on Ethernet and Passive Optical Network architecture. It consists of a highly integrated Gateway-on-a-chip solution, leveraging key Marvell technologies for Universal Passive Optical Networking, Ethernet and packet processing, voice processing, power management and application processors. AVANTA is meant to meet the needs of next generation Internet which is driving massive bandwidth growth to the digital home requiring high performance along with uncompromised quality for interactive services such as video, online gaming or conferencing. The AVANTA product supports triple modes for internet access using either Ethernet Passive Optical Network, Gigabit Passive Optical Network or Ethernet mode, making these products universal for any broadband optical network, as well as leveraging economies of scale for developers and service providers. Enterprise Transceiver and Ethernet Connectivity Products We offer a portfolio of low power, high-performance PHY, LAN on Motherboard (LOM) and network interface card solutions for demanding network connectivity applications. These products are designed to support EEE, new high-speed serial interfaces, security capabilities like MAC security (MACSec) and Time-aware Ethernet capabilities like Precision Time-stamping Protocol. We provide these products to the enterprise networking, storage networking, PC connectivity, gaming and other consumer electronics markets. Our Alaska GbE PHY products and Alaska X 10G 10G PHY products consist of a broad portfolio of products that address many different applications and markets. Enterprise switching, Server and telecom applications are addressed with high performance, low power and highly integrated PHY products. Network connectivity for client systems like PCs, gaming systems and digital TVs are addressed with cost-effective and lower-power PHY and LOM products. Our GbE transceivers, targeted at enterprise and telecom networking systems, offer high performance, low power dissipation and value-added features. Each member of the product family is based on our industry-leading intellectual property in the DSP and analog domain. These products enable seamless data transmission over either copper or fiber-optic cabling. The design of the Alaska family of products incorporates sophisticated digital signal processing algorithms and power management techniques to achieve high data transmission quality and low power dissipation. These transceivers support EEE to optimize system energy consumption, MACSec to enhance network security and Precision Time-stamping Protocol to enable easy migration to Ethernet from time-based networks. All these devices also support our VCT technology, which allow end users to quickly and remotely analyze the signal quality and attributes of the data transmission cable, which can significantly reduced installation time and cable debugging efforts. Our transceivers target client connectivity applications for gaming, digital TV and other consumer electronics systems. Our 100 Mbps Fast Ethernet physical layer products offer low power dissipation, EEE, small form factor and advanced features. Alaska X 10 Gbps and backplane transceiver products are the evolutionary extension of our GbE transceiver technology. This family of products enables the accelerated deployment of 10GbE-capable systems for the LAN, MAN and WAN markets. The Alaska X transceiver family features robust operation, low power consumption, high performance and small form factor. Our 10GbE products offer value-add features, such as MACSec, and are targeted at Enterprise as well as Telecom applications. 12 Table of Contents Our Yukon connectivity products are targeted for the volume deployment of Gigabit Ethernet PC-client and server network connectivity solutions. The Yukon family of integrated, single-chip solutions is based on our proven enterprise-class Alaska family of GbE MAC, PHY interface and associated comprehensive software suite. The Yukon devices are offered in an ultra-small form factor with low-power and EEE requirements, and are targeted for client and server network interface cards and LOM applications for both traditional PCI bus and PCIe architectures. The Yukon products provide a wide variety of manageability features such as VCT technology, which reduces network installation and support costs, and is optimized for 32-bit PCI clients. With a low pin count for such a device, the Yukon product is designed to minimize board space, simplify signal routing and reduce the number of required printed circuit board layers with the goal of a cost-effective motherboard and low profile network interface card implementation. Other Products Printing ASIC products We offer custom and semi-custom SoC products aimed at the printer market. These devices are the core integrated circuits for image processing and the control of laser printers, inkjet printers and all-in-one products incorporating printing, scanning, networking, wireless and fax capabilities. We also provide printer control systems based on Marvell Printing ASICs aimed at offering highly integrated solutions and shorter time-to-market. Digital Video Processing Products Our digital video format converter with award-winning QDEO video processing converts PC graphics, standard-definition and high definition video into 1080p high definition outputs, removing signal noise and image artifacts. Three generations of video format converters are now in mass production. The Marvell 88DE2710, 88DE2750 and the 88DE27555 digital video format converters are now shipping in blue-laser players and recorders, set-top-boxes, and A/V receivers and are also targeted at digital television and media clients. Power Management and Green Technology Products DSP Switcher integrated regulators are designed to provide efficiency, precision and transient response together with small solution size to provide system designers with enhanced form factor and battery life in portable equipment. The integration of power metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistors, internal frequency compensation and single resistor output programming reduces design efforts and increases system reliability. Our analog switching regulators are low-cost, highly integrated power management solutions. Our analog switching regulators are available as single or multiple output devices allowing for design flexibility for our customers. These solutions feature low quiescent current, high efficiency, high switching frequency, and integrated compensation circuits which reduce the external components, system board area and cost. Our mixed-signal light-emitting diode (LED) drivers provide AC-DC and DC-DC power solutions for LED general lighting applications. With our smart LED driver technology, the adaptive digital algorithms implemented on the chip determine the amount of power required and optimize operations on various environmental conditions, achieving high efficiency, high power factor correction (for AC-DC) and fine light dimming control. The high integration of digital logic and power analog reduces system cost and board space, and also improves system reliability. We have also developed a smart energy platform to enable solutions for energy management applications, such as smart appliances and networked lighting. This platform is based on our wireless networking, the ARMADA processor and power management chips, and a complete smart energy software suite. This solution can be used to develop various energy saving products with smart grid connectivity, such as wireless thermostats, smart dishwashers, smart refrigerators, smart water heaters and wireless lighting controls. 13 Table of Contents We have determined that we operate in one reportable business segment: the design, development and sale of integrated circuits. For further information, please see Note 13 Segment and Geographic Information in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers, Sales and Marketing Our direct sales force targets markets that have high intensity data communications processing and high performance storage requirements. We complement and support our direct sales force with manufacturers representatives for our products in North America, Europe and Asia. In addition, we have distributors who support our sales and marketing activities in the United States, Europe and Asia. We also use stocking representatives outside of the United States for some of our products. We expect a significant percentage of our sales will continue to come from direct sales to key customers. As we expand into other end markets, we will evaluate the best sales channel to service that business. We use field application engineers to provide technical support and assistance to existing and potential customers in designing, testing and qualifying systems designs that incorporate our products. We believe that superior field applications engineering support plays a pivotal role in building long-term relationships with customers by improving our customers time-to-market, maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction and encouraging customers to use our next-generation products. Our marketing team works in conjunction with our field sales and application engineering force and is organized around our product applications and end-markets. Due to the complexity of our products, we believe that individual meetings with our marketing, sales and engineering teams provide the most effective and rapid means of communicating the capabilities, benefits and extremely technical specifications of each significant new product. The customers for our storage products are manufacturers of hard disk and solid state drives for the enterprise, desktop and mobile computing markets. The target customers for our switching, transceiver and connectivity products are manufacturers of high-speed networking equipment targeted at WANs, MANs and LANs, in addition to PC-client OEMs. The target customers for our communications controller and embedded processor products are the manufacturers and vendors of wireless communications equipment and handsets for the internet voice communications market. The target customers for our cellular and applications processor products are manufacturers of cellular handsets, tablets, personal navigation devices and a large variety of other handheld, portable consumer applications. Our target customers for our wireless and personal area networking products include manufacturers of WLAN solutions for small-and-medium size businesses, small office/home office and residential gateway solutions as well as manufacturers of a variety of new consumer applications such as cellular handsets, gaming devices, PDAs and home entertainment multimedia client devices. The target customers for our digital video processing products include manufacturers of consumer electronic devices, such as digital televisions, HD-based media players, HD-based set-top-boxes, media clients and audio-visual receivers. The target customers for our power management and green technology products are very diverse and include manufacturers of many different electronic devices. A small number of customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. Two customers accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Western Digital represented approximately 21%, 24% and 21% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Research in Motion represented approximately 14% of net revenue in fiscal 2011 and less than 10% of net revenue in fiscal 2010 and 2009. During fiscal 2010, Toshiba acquired the hard disk drive operations of Fujitsu. Although Toshiba and Fujitsu 14 Table of Contents revenue have not historically accounted for more than 10% of our revenue, we have combined fiscal 2010 net revenue for both Toshiba and Fujitsu together for reporting purposes based on Toshibas acquisition of Fujitsus hard disk drive operations in fiscal 2010. Toshiba represented less than 10% of net revenue in fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2009 and approximately 15%, of our net revenue in 2010. Our sales are made under purchase orders typically received between one week and four months prior to the scheduled delivery date. These purchase orders can be cancelled without charge if notice is given within an agreed upon period. Because of the scheduling requirements of our foundries, we generally place firm orders for products with our suppliers up to 16 weeks prior to the anticipated delivery date and typically prior to an order for the product. These lead times typically change based on the current capacity at the foundries. An increasing number of our products are being incorporated into consumer electronics products, including gaming devices, which are subject to significant seasonality and fluctuations in demand. Due to holiday and back to school buying trends, these seasonal demand patterns generally will negatively impact our results in the first and fourth quarter and positively impact our results in the second and third quarter of our fiscal years. Backlog Our sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products. The quantities actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes in the customers needs. Due to an industry practice that allows customers to cancel or change purchase orders with limited notice prior to the scheduled shipment dates, we believe that backlog is not a reliable indicator of future revenue. In addition, a significant portion of our revenue is related to inventory pulled by customers from 3 rd party logistics providers. As such, this revenue would not be included in the backlog. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to introduce improvements to our existing products and to develop new products that deliver cost-effective solutions for both existing and new markets. Our research and development efforts are directed largely to the development of high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing and embedded microprocessor integrated circuits with the smallest die size and lowest power. We devote a significant portion of our resources to expanding our core intellectual property technology portfolio with designs that enable high-performance, reliable communications over a variety of physical transmission media. We are also focused on incorporating functions currently provided by stand-alone integrated circuits into our products to reduce our customers overall system costs. We have assembled a core team of engineers who have extensive experience in the areas of mixed-signal circuit design, digital signal processing, embedded microprocessors, CMOS technology and system-level architectures. We have invested, and expect that we will continue to invest, significant funds for research and development. Our research and development expense was $897.6 million, $828.2 million and $935.3 million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Manufacturing Integrated Circuit Fabrication The vast majority of our integrated circuits are substantially fabricated using widely available CMOS processes, which provide greater flexibility to engage independent foundries to manufacture integrated circuits at lower costs. By outsourcing manufacturing, we are able to avoid the cost associated with owning and operating our own manufacturing facility. This allows us to focus our efforts on the design and marketing of our products. We currently outsource a substantial percentage of our integrated circuit manufacturing to Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, with the remaining manufacturing outsourced to other foundries 15 Table of Contents primarily in Asia. We work closely with our foundry partners to forecast on a monthly basis our manufacturing capacity requirements. Our integrated circuits are currently fabricated in several advanced, sub-micron manufacturing processes. Because finer manufacturing processes lead to enhanced performance, smaller silicon chip size and lower power requirements, we continually evaluate the benefits and feasibility of migrating to smaller geometry process technology in order to reduce cost and improve performance. Assembly and Test We outsource all product packaging and testing requirements for our production products to several assembly and test subcontractors, including STATS ChipPAC Ltd. in Singapore, Malaysia, Korea, Taiwan and China, Global Testing Corporation in Singapore, Siliconware Precision Industries in Taiwan, ASE Electronics in Singapore, Taiwan and Malaysia, and Amkor in Korea, Philippines and Taiwan. Quality Assurance We are certified to the International Organization for Standards Quality Management ISO 9001:2000 level. We build quality into our products starting with the design and development process. Our designs are subjected to extensive circuit simulation under extreme conditions of temperature, voltage and processing before being committed to manufacture. We pre-qualify each of our subcontractors and conduct regular in-depth quality audits. We closely monitor foundry production to ensure consistent overall quality, reliability and yield levels. All of our independent foundries and assembly-test subcontractors have been awarded ISO 9001 certification. Environmental Management We monitor the environmental impact of our products. The need for lead-free solutions in electronic components and systems has received increasing attention within the semiconductor industry and many companies are moving towards becoming compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive (RoHS), the European legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead. We believe that our current products are compliant with the RoHS Directive. Intellectual Property Our future revenue growth and overall success depend in large part on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret laws, contractual provisions and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and customers and seek to control access to, and distribution of, our documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products and technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. In addition, we often incorporate the intellectual property of other companies into our designs, and we have certain obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of their intellectual property. It is possible, however, that the steps taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or our customers intellectual property may not be successful. As of January 29, 2011, we have been issued and/or have acquired over 1,800 U.S. patents and over 500 foreign patents and we have more than 3,000 U.S. and foreign pending patent applications on various aspects of our technology, with expiration dates ranging approximately from 2011 to 2031, however, we cannot be certain whether we will be issued patents as a result of these applications. Furthermore, it is possible that our patents may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or licensed to others. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products are or may be developed, manufactured or sold, including various countries in Asia, may not protect our products or proprietary information to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and thus make the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely in these countries. We may need to engage in litigation in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights or the 16 Table of Contents rights of our customers, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. This litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have expended and will continue to expend considerable resources in establishing a patent position designed to protect our intellectual property. While our ability to compete is enhanced by our ability to protect our intellectual property, we believe that in view of the rapid pace of technological change, the combination of the technical experience and innovative skills of our employees may be as important to our business as the legal protection of our patents and other proprietary information. From time to time, we may desire or be required to renew or to obtain licenses from third parties in order to further develop and effectively market commercially viable products. We cannot be sure that any necessary licenses will be available or will be available on commercially reasonable terms. The integrated circuit industry is characterized by vigorous pursuit and protection of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in significant and often time consuming and expensive litigation. From time to time, we receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that claim we have infringed upon, misappropriated or misused the proprietary rights of other parties. Although we defend these claims vigorously, it is possible that we will not prevail in pending or future lawsuits. In addition, we may be sued in the future by other parties who claim that we have infringed their patents or misappropriated or misused their trade secrets, or who may seek to invalidate one or more of our patents. Any of these claims could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if claims against us are not valid or successfully asserted, these claims could result in significant costs and a diversion of management and personnel resources to defend. In that event, our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected. In any of the pending or future claims or actions asserted against us, we may seek to obtain licenses under a third partys intellectual property rights; however, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Competition The markets for our products are intensely competitive, characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, short product life cycles and pricing pressures imposed by high-volume customers. We expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter our markets. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving markets for our products depends on a number of factors, including the: performance, features, quality and price of our products; timing and success of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors; emergence of new industry standards; ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity; and number and nature of our competitors in a given market. Our current products face competition from a number of sources. We believe that our principal competitors for our read channel and storage SoC devices are LSI Corporation and, to a lesser extent, Renesas, STMicroelectronics and other new entrants. Our solid state storage products compete primarily against devices offered by Sandforce and devices internally developed by flash manufacturers. Our tape drive controller products compete primarily against devices internally developed by tape drive manufacturers. Our switching products compete primarily against products from Broadcom. To a lesser extent, these products also compete with Realtek Semiconductor and Vitesse Semiconductor. Our communications controllers and embedded processors compete directly with products from companies such as Cavium Networks, Freescale 17 Table of Contents Semiconductor and NetLogic Microsystems. Our transceiver and connectivity products compete primarily with products from Broadcom, Intel, NetLogic Microsystems, LSI Corporation, Realtek Semiconductor, Atheros and Vitesse Semiconductor. Our powerline communications products compete primarily with products from Atheros and Broadcom. Our communications and applications processors compete against products from Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor, Nvidia, Qualcomm, STMicroelectronics and Texas Instruments. Our wireless LAN and personal area network products compete primarily against products from Broadcom. Our embedded wireless products compete with products from Atheros, Realtek and Texas Instruments. Our printing ASIC products compete primarily with products from PMC Sierra and ST Microelectronics. Our power management products compete with products from a number of companies including Analog Devices, International Rectifier, Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology, Maxim Integrated Products Incorporated, National Semiconductor and Texas Instruments. In addition, we expect increased competition in the future from other emerging and established companies. Although we believe we will be able to successfully compete with existing and potential competitors, some of these current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Our current or future competitors could develop and introduce new products that will be priced lower, provide superior performance or achieve greater market acceptance than our products. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to manufacture products when our ability to do so may be limited. Furthermore, current or potential competitors have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which could harm our business. In addition, many of our current and potential customers have substantial technological capabilities and financial resources. Some customers have already developed, or in the future may develop, technologies that could compete directly with our products. We may also face competition from suppliers of products based on new or emerging technologies. Historically, average unit selling prices in the integrated circuit industry in general, and for our products in particular, have decreased over the life of a particular product. We expect that the average unit selling prices of our products will continue to be subject to significant pricing pressures. In order to offset expected declines in the average unit selling prices of our products, we will need to continue to reduce the cost of our products. We intend to accomplish this by implementing design changes that lower the cost of manufacturing, assembling and testing, by entering into long-term, strategic arrangements with our foundry partners to secure wafer capacity at reduced prices, by negotiating reduced charges from our foundries. Because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities. If we fail to introduce lower cost versions of our products in a timely manner or to successfully manage our manufacturing, assembly and testing relationships, our business could be adversely impacted. Employees As of January 29, 2011, we had a total of 5,893 employees. 18 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows information about our executive officers as of January 29, 2011: Name Age Position(s) Dr. Sehat Sutardja 49 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board Clyde R. Hosein 51 Chief Financial Officer and Secretary Dr. Pantas Sutardja 48 Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Research and Development Officer and Director Dr. Sehat Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chairman of our Board of Directors since 1995, and Chairman of our Board of Directors since 2003. While remaining deeply involved in the daily challenges of running a global growth company, Dr. Sutardja participates heavily in Marvells engineering and marketing efforts across analog, video processor, and microprocessor design while offering input across all of our other product lines. Dr. Sehat Sutardja is widely regarded as one of the pioneers of the modern semiconductor age. His breakthrough designs and guiding vision have revolutionized numerous industry segments, from data storage to the high performance, low power chips now driving the growing global markets for mobile computing and telephony. For his relentless innovation, he has been awarded more than 150 patents and has been named a Fellow of IEEE. In 2006, Dr. Sutardja was recognized as the Inventor of the Year by the Silicon Valley Intellectual Property Law Association. Dr. Sutardja has become an internationally-recognized proponent of new energy efficiency standards for consumer electronics. To that end, he has been working with the governments in both the U.S. and China to establish efficiency performance standards that could produce significant cost and carbon savings. Dr. Sutardja holds a MS and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Sehat Sutardja received a BS in Electrical Engineering from Iowa State University. Dr. Sehat Sutardja is the brother of Dr. Pantas Sutardja. Clyde R. Hosein has served as our Chief Financial Officer since June 2008 and our Corporate Secretary since September 2008. Mr. Hosein served as our Interim Chief Operating Officer from October 2008 to March 2010. From March 2003 until June 2008, Mr. Hosein served as Chief Financial Officer for Integrated Device Technologies, a publicly traded company that develops and delivers mixed signal semiconductor solutions to the communications, computing and consumer end markets. From 2001 until 2003, Mr. Hosein served as Chief Financial Officer of Advanced Interconnect Technologies. From 1997 to 2001, Mr. Hosein was the Chief Financial Officer and senior director of corporate planning of Candescent Technologies Corporation. Previous to Candescent, Mr. Hosein spent over 14 years with IBM Corporation, where he held several engineering and financial positions within their storage, microelectronics, data systems and corporate divisions. Mr. Hosein serves on the board of directors of Cree Inc., a publicly traded company that develops and manufactures LED products. Mr. Hosein holds an MBA from New York University Stern School of Business and a BS in industrial engineering from Polytechnic University in New York. Dr. Pantas Sutardja , one of our co-founders, has served as Vice President and a director since our inception 1995. Dr. Pantas Sutardja was appointed Chief Technology Officer in 2000 and Chief Research and Development Officer in August 2007. Dr. Pantas Sutardja served as our Acting Chief Operating Officer from September 2007 until June 2008. Dr. Pantas Sutardja holds a BS, MS and Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science from the University of California at Berkeley. Dr. Pantas Sutardja is the brother of Dr. Sehat Sutardja. Item 1A. Risk Factors Additional Factors That May Affect Future Results Investing in our common shares involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all information contained in this report before you decide to purchase our common shares. If any of the possible adverse events described below actually occurs, we may be unable to 19 Table of Contents conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition and operating results could be harmed. In addition, the trading price of our common shares could decline due to the occurrence of any of these risks, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our financial condition and results of operations may vary from quarter to quarter, which may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly results of operations have fluctuated in the past and could do so in the future. Because our results of operations are difficult to predict, you should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and those identified throughout this Risk Factors section: general economic and political conditions and specific conditions in the markets we address, including the continuing volatility in the technology sector and semiconductor industry, and current general economic volatility; our dependence on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenue; cancellations, rescheduling or deferrals of significant customer orders or shipments; our ability to scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or demand for new products requested by our customers; gain or loss of a key customer or design win; our ability to develop and introduce new and enhanced products in a timely and effective manner; our ability to maintain a competitive cost structure for our manufacturing and assembly and test processes; failure to qualify our products or our suppliers manufacturing lines; our ability to exercise stringent quality control measures to obtain high yields; our ability to successfully transition to smaller geometry process technologies or achieve higher levels of design integration; effective and timely update of equipment and facilities as required for leading edge production capabilities; our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel; our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and evolving industry standards and our customers changing demands; failure to protect our intellectual property; and any current and future litigation that could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business. Due to fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other factors, the price at which our common shares will trade is likely to continue to be highly volatile. The closing sale price of our common shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market for the period of January 1, 2009 to January 29, 2011 ranged from a low of $5.80 to a high of $22.58. In future periods, if our revenues or operating results are below our estimates or the estimates or expectations of public market analysts and investors, amongst other factors, could result in our stock price declining. On average, technology companies have been subject to a greater number of securities class action claims than companies in many other industries as a result of stock price volatility. If our stock price is volatile, we may become involved in this type of litigation. Any litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources that are needed to successfully maintain and grow our business 20 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted by global economic conditions, which may cause a decline in the market price of our common shares. We operate in the semiconductor industry, which is cyclical and subject to rapid change and evolving industry standards. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant demand downturns. These downturns are characterized by decreases in product demand, excess customer inventories and sometimes accelerated erosion of prices. These factors could cause substantial fluctuations in our net revenue, gross margin, cash flows and results of operations. In addition, during these downturns some competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices, which would adversely impact our gross margin. Any downturns in the current environment may be severe and prolonged, and any failure of the markets in which we operate to fully recover from downturns could seriously impact our revenue and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is also subject to periodic increases in demand and supply constraints, which may affect our ability to ship products. Accordingly, our results of operations may vary significantly as a result of the general conditions in the semiconductor industry, which could cause fluctuations in our stock price. The global credit and financial markets have experienced and in some cases continue to experience extreme volatility and disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, increased concerns about inflation and deflation, decreased consumer confidence, lower economic growth, volatile energy costs, increased unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent global economic recovery in the hard disk drive or in the semiconductor industry. If the economy or markets in which we operate deteriorate from current levels, our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, the combination of our lengthy sales cycle coupled with challenging macroeconomic conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant portion of our business is dependent on the hard disk drive industry, which is highly cyclical, experiences rapid technological change, is subject to industry consolidation and is facing increased competition from alternative technologies. The hard disk drive industry is intensely competitive, and the technology changes rapidly. This industry has historically been cyclical, with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction. These cycles may affect us because some of our customers are participants in this industry. Hard disk drive manufacturers tend to order more components than they may need during growth periods, and sharply reduce orders for components during periods of contraction. Rapid technological changes in the hard disk drive industry often result in shifts in market share among the industrys participants. If the hard disk drive manufacturers using our products do not retain or increase their market share, our sales may decrease. In addition, the hard disk drive industry has experienced consolidation over the past several years. For example, during fiscal 2010, Toshiba acquired the hard disk drive operations of Fujitsu, and in March 2011, Western Digital announced that it plans to purchase Hitachis hard disk drive unit. As a result of the consolidation among our customers, this could lead to reduced demand for our products, replacement of our products by the merged entity with those of our competitors and cancellation of orders, each of which could harm our results of operations. On the other hand, this could lead to increased opportunities for our products within the combined company due to our technology advantage and customer relationships. Future changes in the nature of information storage products could reduce demand for traditional hard disk drives. For instance, products using alternative technologies, such as solid-state flash drives and other storage technologies could become a significant source of competition to manufacturers of hard disk drives. Flash memory has typically been more costly than disk drive technologies. However, flash memory manufacturers have been reducing the prices for their products, which could enable them to compete more effectively with hard 21 Table of Contents disk drive products. While we also supply controllers for solid state drives, demand for hard disk drives could be reduced if alternative storage technologies, such as flash memory, can meet customers cost and capacity requirements while not using our technology. We operate in the intensely competitive mobile and wireless communications markets, and our failure to compete effectively could harm our results of operations. The semiconductor industry and specifically the mobile and wireless communications markets are extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product offerings and new competitors enter the market. We currently compete with a number of large domestic and international companies in the business of designing integrated circuits and related applications, some of which have greater financial, technical and management resources than us. We expect competition to continue to increase as industry standards continue to evolve and become better known, and others realize the market potential of wired and wireless products and services. As the markets we compete in continue to increase, our revenues and gross margins may be harmed. For example, competitors with greater financial resources may be able to offer lower prices than us, or they may offer additional products, services or other incentives that we may not be able to match. In addition, many of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities and have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases, and greater sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. Furthermore, our current and potential competitors in the mobile and wireless markets have established or may establish financial and strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among these competitors may acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to compete successfully against existing or new competitors, which would harm our results of operations. Our sales are concentrated in a few customers, and if we lose or experience a significant reduction in sales to any of these key customers, our revenues may decrease substantially. We receive a significant amount of our revenues from a limited number of customers. For the year ended January 29, 2011, two customers accounted for a total of approximately 35% of our net revenue. Sales to our largest customers have fluctuated significantly from period to period primarily due to the timing and number of design wins with each customer, as well as the continued diversification of our customer base as we expand into new markets, and will likely continue to fluctuate dramatically in the future. The loss of any of our large customers or a significant reduction in sales we make to them would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our products. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products at all, purchase fewer products than they did in the past, or alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: substantially all of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; our customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase integrated circuits from our competitors; or our customers may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. If we are unable to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our results of operations and competitive position will be harmed. Our future success will depend on our ability, in a timely and cost-effective manner, to develop and introduce new products and enhancements to our existing products. We must also achieve market acceptance for these products and enhancements. If we do not successfully develop and achieve market acceptance for new and 22 Table of Contents enhanced products, our ability to maintain or increase revenues will suffer. The development of our products is highly complex. We occasionally have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. Even if new and enhanced products are introduced to the market, we may not be able to achieve market acceptance of them in a timely manner. In addition, our longstanding relationships with some of our larger customers may also deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer certain customers favorable prices on our products. If these prices are lower than the prices paid by our existing customers, we would have to offer the same lower prices to certain of our customers who have contractual most favored nation pricing arrangements. In that event, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. We rely on independent foundries and subcontractors for the manufacture, assembly and testing of our integrated circuit products, and the failure of any of these third party vendors to deliver products or otherwise perform as requested could damage our relationships with our customers, decrease our sales and limit our growth. We do not have our own manufacturing or assembly facilities and have very limited in-house testing facilities, therefore, we rely on third party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. We currently rely on several third party foundries to produce our integrated circuit products. We also currently rely on several third party assembly and test subcontractors to assemble, package and test our products. This exposes us to a variety of risks, including the following: Regional Concentration: Substantially all of our products are manufactured by third party foundries located in Taiwan. Currently our alternative manufacturing sources are located in China and Singapore. In addition, substantially all of our assembly and testing facilities are located in Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines. Because of the geographic concentration of these third party foundries, as well as our assembly and test subcontractors, we are exposed to the risk that their operations may be disrupted by regional disasters. For example, the risk of an earthquake in Taiwan and elsewhere in the Pacific Rim region is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines to the facilities of our foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. Taiwan has experienced significant earthquakes in the past, including, for example, in March 2010, and may be subject to additional earthquakes that could disrupt manufacturing operations. In addition, the resurgence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, the outbreak of avian flu and any similar future outbreaks in Asia, where these foundries are located, could affect the production capabilities of our manufacturers by resulting in quarantines or closures. In the event of such a quarantine or closure, if we were unable to quickly identify alternate manufacturing facilities, our revenues, cost of goods sold and results of operations would be negatively impacted. If these vendors do not provide us with high-quality products and services in a timely manner, or if one or more of these vendors terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain satisfactory replacements to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis, our relationships with our customers could suffer, our sales could decrease and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. No Guarantee of Capacity or Supply: The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductor devices is limited by its available capacity and existing obligations. In addition, when demand is strong, availability of foundry capacity may be constrained, and with limited exceptions, our vendors are not obligated to perform services or supply products to us for any specific period, in any specific quantities, or at any specific price, except as may be provided in a particular purchase order. For example, in recent years, we experienced some supply shortages due to the difficulties encountered by the foundries in rapidly increasing their production capacities from low utilization levels to the high utilization levels required due to a rapid increase in demand. Although we have entered into contractual commitments to supply specified levels of products to some of our customers, we may not have sufficient levels 23 Table of Contents of production capacity with all of our foundries, despite signing an agreement with a foundry to reserve and secure foundry fabrication capacity for a fixed number of wafers. Despite this agreement, foundry capacity may not be available when we need it or at reasonable prices. We place our orders on the basis of our customers purchase orders or our forecast of customer demand, and the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies products and reduce deliveries to us on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than we are or that have long-term agreements with our main foundries, may induce our foundries to reallocate capacity to those customers. This reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of components that we need. Moreover, if any of our third party foundry suppliers are unable to secure necessary raw materials from their suppliers, lose benefits under material agreements, experience power outages, lack sufficient capacity to manufacture our products, encounter financial difficulties or suffer any other disruption or reduction in efficiency, we may encounter supply delays or disruptions, which could harm our business or results of operations. Although we use several independent foundries to manufacture our semiconductor products, most of our components are not manufactured at more than one foundry at any given time, and our products typically are designed to be manufactured in a specific process at only one of these foundries. Accordingly, if one of our foundries is unable to provide us with components as needed, it may be difficult for us to transition the manufacture of our products to other foundries, and we could experience significant delays in securing sufficient supplies of those components. This could result in a material decline in revenues, net income and cash flow. In order to secure sufficient foundry capacity when demand is high and mitigate the risks described in the foregoing paragraph, we may enter into various arrangements with suppliers that could be costly and harm our results of operations, such as non-refundable deposits with or loans to foundries in exchange for capacity commitments, and contracts that commit us to purchase specified quantities of integrated circuits over extended periods. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility, and not be on terms favorable to us. Moreover, if we are able to secure foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. Uncertain Yields and Quality: The fabrication of integrated circuits is a complex and technically demanding process. Our foundries have from time to time experienced manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by our foundries could result in lower than anticipated manufacturing yields or unacceptable performance. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time consuming and expensive to correct. Poor yields from our foundries, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our products could cause us significant customer relations and business reputation problems, harm our financial results and result in financial or other damages to our customers. Our customers could also seek damages from us for their losses. A product liability claim brought against us, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly to defend. In addition, defects in our existing or new products could result in significant warranty, support and repair costs, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. To the extent that we rely on outside suppliers to manufacture or assemble and test our products, we may have a reduced ability to control directly product delivery schedules and quality assurance. This lack of control may result in product shortages or quality assurance problems that could delay shipments of products or increase manufacturing, assembly, testing or other costs. Costs related to defective products could have a material adverse effect on us. We have experienced hardware and software defects and bugs associated with the introduction of our highly complex products. We cannot assure you that, despite our testing procedures, errors will not be found in new 24 Table of Contents products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments in the future, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, material recall and replacement costs, delay in revenue recognition or loss of revenues, writing down the inventory of defective products, the diversion of the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts, our having to defend against litigation related to defective products or related property damage or personal injury, and damage to our reputation in the industry and could adversely affect our relationships with our customers. In addition, we may have difficulty identifying the end customers of the defective products in the field. As a result, we could incur substantial costs to implement modifications to correct defects. Any of these problems could materially adversely affect us. If we fail to appropriately scale our operations in response to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers, our business and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. To achieve our business objectives, it may be necessary from time to time for us to expand or contract our operations. In the future, we may not be able to scale our workforce and operations in a sufficiently timely manner to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new products requested by our customers. In that event, we may be unable to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, and our current or future business could be materially and adversely affected. Conversely, if we expand our operations and workforce too rapidly in anticipation of increased demand for our products, and such demand does not materialize at the pace at which we expected, the rate of increase in our costs and operating expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, if such demand does not materialize at the pace which we expect, we may be required to scale down our business through expense and headcount reductions as well as facility consolidations or closures that could result in restructuring charges that would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. For example, in order to reduce expenses in the challenging economic environment that began during the second half of fiscal 2009, in late fiscal 2009 and early in fiscal 2010, we implemented certain cost reduction measures to reduce operating expenses. Because many of our expenses are fixed in the short-term or are incurred in advance of anticipated sales, we may not be able to decrease our expenses in a timely manner to offset any decrease in customer demand. If customer demand does not increase as anticipated, our profitability could be adversely affected due to our higher expense levels. Our past growth has placed, and any future long-term growth is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. To implement our current business and product plans, we will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort. Although we have implemented an enterprise resource planning system to help us improve our planning and management processes, we anticipate that we will also need to continue to implement and improve a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, as well as additional procedures and other internal management systems. These systems can be time consuming and expensive to implement, increase management responsibilities and divert management attention. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations, we may be unable to scale our business quickly enough to meet competitive challenges or exploit potential market opportunities, or conversely, we may scale our business too quickly and the rate of increase in our costs and expenses may exceed the rate of increase in our revenue, either of which would materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and if we are unable to accurately predict customer demand, we may hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin, or, conversely, we may have insufficient inventory, which would result in lost revenue opportunities and potentially in loss of market share and damaged customer relationships. We typically sell products pursuant to purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Customers can generally cancel or defer purchase orders on short notice without incurring a significant penalty. In the recent past, some of our customers have developed excess inventories of their own products and have, as a consequence, deferred purchases of our products. We cannot accurately predict what or how many products our 25 Table of Contents customers will need in the future. Anticipating demand is difficult because our customers face unpredictable demand for their own products and are increasingly focused more on cash preservation and tighter inventory management. In addition, as an increasing number of our chips are being incorporated into consumer products, we anticipate greater fluctuations in demand for our products, which makes it more difficult to forecast customer demand. For example, we provide chips used in gaming consoles and due to the seasonal nature of the release of these products, we cannot make any assurances that sales of those products will achieve expected levels in the current or future fiscal years. Consequently, the revenues from royalties expected by us from these products may not be fully realized, and our operating results may be adversely affected. We place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand. Our forecasts are based on multiple assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. For example, our ability to accurately forecast customer demand may be impaired by the delays inherent in our lengthy sales cycle. The sales cycle for many of our products is long and requires us to invest significant resources with each potential customer without any assurance of sales to that customer. Our sales cycle typically begins with an extended evaluation and test period, also known as qualification, during which our products undergo rigorous reliability testing by our customers. Qualification is typically followed by an extended development period by our customers and an additional three to nine month period before a customer commences volume production of equipment incorporating our products. This lengthy sales cycle creates the risk that our customers will decide to cancel or change product plans for products incorporating our integrated circuits prior to completion, which makes it even more difficult to forecast customer demand. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect to, if at all. As a result, we would hold excess or obsolete inventory, which would reduce our gross margin and adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity is available, we would miss revenue opportunities and potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any future significant cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products could materially and adversely affect our profit margins, increase product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We must keep pace with rapid technological change and evolving industry standards in the semiconductor industry to remain competitive. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology and evolving industry standards. We sell products in markets that are characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, short product life cycles and increasing demand for higher levels of integration and smaller process geometries. Our past sales and profitability have resulted, to a large extent, from our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry standards and to develop and introduce new and enhanced products incorporating the new standards and technologies. Our ability to adapt to these changes and to anticipate future standards, and the rate of adoption and acceptance of those standards, will be a significant factor in maintaining or improving our competitive position and prospects for growth. If new industry standards emerge which we do not properly anticipate, our products or our customers products could become unmarketable or obsolete, and we could lose market share. We may also have to incur substantial unanticipated costs to comply with these new standards. In addition, our target markets continue to undergo rapid growth and consolidation. A significant slowdown in any of these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success will also depend on the ability of our customers to develop new products and enhance existing products for the markets they serve and to introduce and promote those products successfully. The average selling prices of products in our markets have historically decreased rapidly and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenues and gross margin. The products we develop and sell are primarily used for high volume applications. As a result, the prices of those products have historically decreased rapidly. We may not be able to maintain or improve the gross margins 26 Table of Contents and our gross profits and financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our efficiency through reducing our costs or developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margin. Additionally, because we do not operate our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities, we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could also reduce our gross margin. In the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our products in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to do so again in the future. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. In order to remain competitive, we expect to continue to transition our semiconductor products to increasingly smaller line width geometries. This transition requires us to modify the manufacturing processes for our products and to redesign some products. We periodically evaluate the benefits, on a product-by-product basis, of migrating to smaller geometry process technologies to reduce our costs. In the past, we have experienced some difficulties in shifting to smaller geometry process technologies or new manufacturing processes, which resulted in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses. We may face similar difficulties, delays and expenses as we continue to transition our products to smaller geometry processes. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. We cannot assure you that the foundries that we use will be able to effectively manage the transition or that we will be able to maintain our existing foundry relationships or develop new ones. If we or any of our foundry subcontractors experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and our results of operations. As smaller geometry processes become more prevalent, we expect to continue to integrate greater levels of functionality, as well as customer and third party intellectual property, into our products, however, we may not be able to achieve higher levels of design integration or deliver new integrated products on a timely basis, if at all. Moreover, even if we are able to achieve higher levels of design integration, such integration may have a short-term adverse impact on our results of operations, as we may reduce our revenue by integrating the functionality of multiple chips into a single chip. As a result of our global operations, we face foreign business, political, economic and exchange rate risks, which may harm our results of operations, because a majority of our products and our customers products are manufactured and sold outside of the United States. A substantial portion of our business is conducted outside of the United States and, as a result, we are subject to foreign business, political and economic risks. All of our products are manufactured outside of the United States. Our current qualified integrated circuit foundries are located in the same region within Taiwan, and our primary assembly and test subcontractors are located in the Pacific Rim region. In addition, many of our customers are located outside of the United States, primarily in Asia, which further exposes us to foreign risks. Sales to customers located in Asia represented approximately 81% of our net revenue in fiscal 2011, 89% of our net revenue in fiscal 2010 and 86% of our net revenue in fiscal 2009. As of January 29, 2011, we have substantial operations outside of the U.S. These operations are directly influenced by the political and economic conditions, as well as possible military hostilities that could affect our operations in Israel. We anticipate that our manufacturing, assembly, testing and sales outside of the United States will continue to account for a substantial portion of our operations and revenue in future periods. Accordingly, we are subject to risks associated with international operations, including: political, social and economic instability, including wars, terrorism, other hostilities and political unrest, boycotts, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; 27 Table of Contents compliance with domestic and foreign export and import regulations, and difficulties in obtaining and complying with domestic and foreign export, import and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; compliance with foreign laws, and laws and practices that favor local companies; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; trade restrictions or higher tariffs; transportation delays; difficulties of managing distributors; less effective protection of intellectual property than is afforded to us in the United States or other developed countries; inadequate local infrastructure; and exposure to local banking, currency control and other financial-related risks. In addition, the recent earthquakes and tsunami in the Pacific Rim has had a significant impact in Japan, and has also led to a crisis with respect to nuclear power plants in the affected regions. Reliable information about the extent of this crisis on our suppliers and customers with substantial operations in Japan has been limited to date. However, based on a review of the global supply chain for our products and discussion with our foundry partners, and based on our knowledge as of the date of this filing, we do not expect a significant impact on our long-term ability to manufacture goods. Additionally, only a small proportion of our sales are to customers located in Japan (3% in fiscal 2011). Nevertheless, the combined effects of these natural disasters have created significant uncertainty, and it is possible that the following impacts could result; reduced end user demand due to the economic impact to Japan and potentially the global economy; a slowdown of business or inability to manufacture products by our customers who are located in Japan; a disruption to the global supply chain for products manufactured in Japan that are included in the end user products either by us or by our customers; an increase in the cost of products that we purchase due to reduced supply; and other unforeseen impacts as a result of the uncertainty in Japan. Moreover, the international nature of our business subjects us to risk associated with the fluctuation of the U.S. dollar versus foreign currencies. Decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus currencies in jurisdictions where we have large fixed costs or our third party manufacturers have significant cost will increase the cost of such operations, which could harm our results of operations. For example, we have large fixed costs in Israel, which will become greater if the U.S. dollar declines in value versus the Israeli Shekel. On the other hand, substantially all of our sales have been denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely on third party distributors and manufacturers representatives and the failure of these distributors and manufacturers representatives to perform as expected could reduce our future sales. From time to time, we enter into relationships with distributors and manufacturers representatives to sell our products, and we are unable to predict the extent to which these partners will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of our distributors and manufacturers representatives also market and sell competing products, and may terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance will also depend, in part, on our ability to attract additional distributors or manufacturers representatives that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. If we cannot retain or attract quality distributors or manufacturers representatives, our sales and results of operations will be harmed. 28 Table of Contents We have made and may continue to make acquisitions and investments, which could divert managements attention, cause ownership dilution to our shareholders, be difficult to integrate and adversely affect our results of operations and share price. We expect to continue to make acquisitions of, and investments in, businesses that offer complementary products and technologies, augment our market segment coverage, or enhance our technological capabilities. We may also enter into strategic alliances or joint ventures to achieve these goals. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment, alliance or joint venture opportunities in the future, or that we will be able to consummate any such transactions or relationships on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or that such transactions or relationships will be successful. Integrating newly acquired businesses or technologies typically entails many risks that could put a strain on our resources, could be costly and time consuming, and might not be successful. In addition, any acquisitions could materially harm our results of operations or liquidity as a result of either the issuance of dilutive equity securities, new debt or contingent liabilities, or payment of cash. Moreover, such acquisitions could divert our managements attention from other business concerns and also result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, we might lose key employees of the newly acquired organizations during the acquisition process. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. We are exposed to potential impairment charges on certain assets. We have approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill and $124.6 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet as of January 29, 2011. Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we are required to review our intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We perform an assessment of goodwill at the beginning of our fiscal fourth quarter and we also assess the impairment of goodwill on an interim basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. If the businesses acquired fail to meet our expectations set out at the time of the acquisition or if our market capitalization adjusted for control premiums and other factors declines to below our carrying value, we could incur significant goodwill or intangible impairment charges, which could negatively impact our financial results. For example, as a result of our analysis related to acquired intangible assets, we recorded an impairment charge of $15.6 million in the fourth quarter ended January 31, 2009. In addition, from time to time, we have made investments in other private companies. If the companies that we invest in are unable to execute their plans and succeed in their respective markets, we may not benefit from such investments, and we could potentially lose the amounts we invest. We evaluate our investment portfolio on a regular basis to determine if impairments have occurred. Impairment charges could have a material impact on our results of operations in any period. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or existing taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our financial results. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices or changes in existing taxation rules or practices may have a significant effect on our reported results. New accounting pronouncements and taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements and taxation practice have occurred and may occur in the future. For example, the U.S. Congress may consider legislation affecting the taxation of foreign corporations and such legislation if enacted might adversely affect our future tax liabilities and have a material impact on our results of operations. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices by regulators may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business or cause our stock price to decline. 29 Table of Contents Tax benefits that we receive may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would harm our results of operations and profitability. In prior years, we have entered into agreements with the local governments in certain foreign jurisdictions where we have significant operations to provide us with favorable tax rates in those jurisdictions if certain criteria are met. We obtained from the Minister of Finance of Bermuda under the Exempt Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, an undertaking that, in the event that Bermuda enacts legislation imposing tax computed on income and capital gains, those taxes should not apply to us until March 28, 2016. The Economic Development Board of Singapore (the EDB) granted Pioneer Status to our wholly-owned subsidiary in Singapore in July 1999. This tax exemption was to expire after ten years, but the EDB in June 2006 agreed to extend the term to 15 years. As a result, we anticipate that a significant portion of the income we earn in Singapore during this period will be exempt from the Singapore income tax. We are required to meet several requirements as to investment, headcount and activities in Singapore to retain this status. Under the Israeli Encouragement law of approved or benefited enterprise, two branches of Marvell Israel (MISL), the GTL branch and the cellular branch (formerly Marvell DSPC), are entitled to a beneficial tax program that includes reduced tax rates and exemption of certain income. The first program was approved for MISL in 1995 and the most recent was approved in 2003. Marvell DSPC has five approved programs, with the first approved in 1990 and the most recent approved in 2010. The benefit period is generally 10 to 15 years and begins in the first year in which our Israeli divisions earn taxable income from the approved or benefited enterprises, provided the maximum period has not elapsed. Income from the approved or benefited enterprises is subject to reduced tax rates ranging between 0% and 10% or tax exemptions for fiscal years 2008 through 2020. During fiscal 2007, our Switzerland subsidiary received a ten-year Federal and Cantonal tax holiday on revenues from research and design and wafer supply trading activities that will expire in 2017. In fiscal 2011, we met the requirements of the initial five year period; provided we continue to meet several requirements. If any of our tax agreements in any of these foreign jurisdictions were terminated, our results of our operations and profitability would be harmed. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property, which would negatively affect our ability to compete. We believe one of our key competitive advantages results from our collection of proprietary technologies that we have developed since our inception. If we fail to protect these intellectual property rights, competitors could sell products based on technology that we have developed that could harm our competitive position and decrease our revenues. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our proprietary technologies. We also enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. We have been issued several U.S. and foreign patents and have a number of pending U.S. and foreign patent applications. However, a patent may not be issued as a result of any applications or, if issued, claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, it is possible that existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Despite our efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or proprietary technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, and the steps that we have taken may not prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer products similar to ours, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Certain of our software (as well as that of our customers) may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Such open source software is often made available under licenses, such as the GNU General Public License which impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public, and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license customarily used to protect our intellectual property. In addition, there is little or no legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain of these open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. While we believe we have complied with our obligations under the various applicable licenses for open source software, in the event that the copyright holder of any open source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work. We may become involved with costly and lengthy litigation involving our patents and other intellectual property, which could subject us to liability, require us to indemnify our customers, require us to obtain or renew licenses, stop selling our products or force us to redesign our products. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property is widespread in the high-technology industry and is particularly prevalent in the semiconductor industry, where a number of companies and other entities aggressively bring numerous infringement claims to assert their patent portfolios. From time to time our subsidiaries and customers receive, and may continue to receive in the future, notices that allege claims of infringement, misappropriation or misuse of the intellectual property rights of third parties. For example, in recent years, multiple claims have been made against our subsidiaries and our customers related to standards-based technologies such as wireless LAN. In addition, we have had certain patent licenses with third parties that have not been renewed, and if we cannot successfully renew these licenses, our subsidiaries and customers could face claims of infringement. These claims could result in litigation and/or claims for indemnification, which, in turn, could subject us to significant liability for damages, attorneys fees and costs. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: stop selling, offering for sale, making, having made or exporting products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property; limit or restrict the type of work that employees involved in such litigation may perform for us; pay substantial damages and/or license fees and/or royalties to the party claiming infringement that could adversely impact our liquidity or operating results; attempt to obtain or renew licenses to the relevant intellectual property, which licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; and attempt to redesign those products that contain the allegedly infringing intellectual property. In addition, many of our contracts with our customers require us to indemnify our customers products against claims alleging infringement of the proprietary rights of other parties. From time to time, we have agreed to indemnify select customers for claims made against our products, where such claims allege infringement of third party intellectual property rights, including, but not limited to, patents, registered trademarks and/or copyrights. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future, all of which could result in an unfavorable outcome and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price for our securities. We have been named as a party to several lawsuits and we may be named in additional litigation in the future. Please see Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies of our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed description of a number of the litigation matters we are currently engaged in. Under certain circumstances, we have contractual 31 Table of Contents and other legal obligations to indemnify and to incur legal expenses on behalf of current and former directors and officers for these lawsuits. In addition, due to the high volatility of our stock price, we may be vulnerable to securities class action litigation. The ultimate outcome of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and the trading price for our securities. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive, and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expenditures and the continued diversion of our managements time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our business. In the event we were to receive an unfavorable outcome in any lawsuit, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and the trading price of our securities may be materially and adversely affected. As a result of the settlement with the SEC, we cannot invoke the safe harbor for the forward-looking statements provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for three years following the entry of judgment. On May 8, 2008, we announced that we had reached an agreement with the SEC that concluded the SECs formal investigation of us with respect to our historic stock option granting practices. As a result of our SEC settlement, we have forfeited for three years following the entry of judgment, or until June 20, 2011, the ability to invoke the safe harbor for the forward-looking statements provision of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. This safe harbor provided us enhanced protection from liability related to forward-looking statements if the forward-looking statements were either accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements or were made without actual knowledge that they were false or misleading. Without the statutory safe harbor, it may be more difficult for us to defend against any claims based on forward-looking statements. We depend on key personnel to manage our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel and hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing personnel. The loss of key employees or the inability to attract qualified personnel, including hardware and software engineers and sales and marketing personnel could delay the development and introduction of and harm our ability to sell our products. We typically do not enter into employment agreements with any of our key technical personnel, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. The competition for qualified technical personnel with significant experience in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and sales of integrated circuits is intense. It is important that we are able to identify, hire and retain engineers who are familiar with the intricacies of the design and manufacture of products based on analog technology. Our key technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of technical personnel to develop new products or enhance existing products in a timely manner. We have had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in prior fiscal years. Although we believe we have taken the necessary actions to strengthen the weaknesses in our control structure, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If our internal control over financial reporting or disclosure