Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations beginning on page 22 and Item 8-Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, beginning on page 41. All references to "IAC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. Our History IAC, initially a hybrid media/electronic retailing company, was incorporated in July 1986 in Delaware under the name Silver King Broadcasting Company, Inc. After several name changes (first to HSN, Inc., then to USA Networks, Inc., USA Interactive and InterActiveCorp, and finally to IAC/InterActiveCorp) and the completion of a number of significant corporate transactions over the years, the Company transformed itself into the leading media and internet company it is today. From 1997 through 2001, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Ticketmaster Group (and the remaining interest in 1998) and Hotel Reservations Network (later renamed Hotels.com), as well as acquired Match.com and other smaller e-commerce companies. As its transformation from a hybrid media/electronic retailing company continued to evolve, in May 2002, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Expedia.com and contributed its entertainment assets to Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, or VUE, a joint venture then controlled by Vivendi. The Company continued to grow its portfolio of e-commerce companies by acquiring all of the shares of Expedia.com, Hotels.com and Ticketmaster that it did not previously own, together with a number of other e-commerce companies (including LendingTree and Hotwire), in 2003. In 2005, IAC acquired Ask Jeeves, Inc. (now known as IAC Search & Media, Inc.) and, on August 9, 2005, completed the separation of its travel and travelrelated businesses and investments into an independent public company called Expedia, Inc. That year, IAC also sold its common and preferred interests in VUE to NBC Universal. In July 2008, the Company acquired the Lexico Publishing Group, owner of various reference websites, including Dictionary.com. On August 20, 2008, IAC separated into five publicly traded companies: IAC, HSN, Inc., Interval Leisure Group, Inc., Ticketmaster and Tree.com, Inc. In this report, we refer to this 2008 transaction as the Spin-Off. Immediately following the Spin-Off, IAC effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. In June 2009, we sold the European operations of Match.com to Meetic, S.A. ("Meetic"), a leading European online dating company based in France, in exchange for a 27% interest in Meetic and a 5 million note. In July 2009, we acquired PeopleMedia, Inc., operator of a number of demographically targeted dating websites. In December 2010, we exchanged the stock of a whollyowned subsidiary that held our Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions businesses and approximately $218 million in cash for substantially all of Liberty Media Corporation's equity stake in IAC. See Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8-Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. In February 2011, we acquired OkCupid, an adsupported online personals service. During the third quarter of 2011, we increased our ownership stake in Meetic to 81%. In September 2012, we acquired The About Group. In December 2012, we acquired Tutor, an online tutoring service. EQUITY OWNERSHIP AND VOTE IAC has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and Class B common stock, with ten votes per share and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of February 1, 2013, Barry Diller, IAC's Chairman 2 Table of Contents and Senior Executive, owned 5,789,499 shares of Class B common stock (the "Diller Shares") representing 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 42.5% of the outstanding total voting power of IAC. Pursuant to an agreement between Mr. Diller and IAC, certain transfer restrictions apply to 1.5 million of the Diller Shares, including a requirement that, until December 1, 2015 and except for transfers to certain permitted transferees, the Diller Shares must first be converted into common stock in order to be transferred. In addition, pursuant to an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelve-month period. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller is currently in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IAC's Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. 3 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF IAC BUSINESSES Search & Applications Overview Our Search & Applications segment consists of: Websites, including Ask.com, About.com and Dictionary.com, through which we provide search services and content; and Applications, including our direct to consumer downloadable applications business (B2C) and our partnership operations (B2B), as well as our Ask.com and Dictionary.com downloadable applications. Our Websites and Applications businesses provide search services to our users. These search services generally involve the generation and display of a set of hyperlinks to websites deemed relevant to search queries entered by users. In addition to these algorithmic search results, paid listings are also generally displayed in response to search queries. Paid listings are advertisements displayed on search results pages that generally contain a link to an advertiser's website. Paid listings are generally displayed based on keywords selected by the advertiser. The paid listings we display are furnished by Google Inc. ("Google") pursuant to a services agreement. Websites Our Websites, through which we provide search, content and other services, primarily consist of the following destination websites: Ask.com, which provides general search services, as well as question and answer services that provide direct answers to naturallanguage questions; About.com, which provides detailed information and content written by independent, freelance subject matter experts across hundreds of vertical categories; and Dictionary.com, which provides online dictionary, reference, educational and learning services. Applications Our B2C applications business develops, markets and distributes a variety of downloadable applications that offer users the ability to access search services, as well as engage in a number of other activities online, such as play games, send e-cards, decorate e-mails and web pages and explore select vertical categories. The majority of our B2C applications are toolbars, which consist of a browser search box and related technology (which together enable users to run search queries and otherwise access search services directly from their web browsers). Many of our toolbars are coupled with other applications that we have developed that enable users to personalize their online activities and otherwise make them more expressive and fun. These applications include: MyFunCards, through which users can send online greeting cards; Popular Screensavers, through which users can personalize their desktops with photos, images and animations; and Retrogamer and Gaming Wonderland, through which users can access classic arcade, sports and action and other casual games directly from their web browsers. Other B2C applications target users with a special or passionate interest in select vertical categories (such as television programming, sports, shopping and gossip, among others) or that provide users with particular reference information (such as maps or weather forecasts). These applications include: Television Fanatic, through which users can browse and search for scheduling information, episode synopses and actor profiles for television shows, as well as directly access online episodes via media players and links to related third party services; TotalRecipeSearch, through which users can access thousands of recipes and cooking tips; and Coupon Alert, through which users can access coupons and online promotions. We distribute B2C applications directly to consumers free of charge. Our B2B applications business works closely with partners in the software, media and other industries to design and develop customized browserbased search applications to be bundled and distributed with these partners' products and services. We also market and distribute a number of downloadable applications through which we provide search and additional services, including: the Ask.com iPhone, iPad and Android applications, which provide general search and naturallanguage question and answer services, and the Dictionary.com iPhone, iPad and Android applications, which provide dictionary, reference, educational and learning services. 4 Table of Contents Revenue Substantially all of the revenue from our Search & Applications segment is derived from online advertising, primarily from the display of paid listings, as well as from the display of other advertising in connection with the provision of search, content and other services. The substantial majority of the paid listings we display are supplied to us by Google pursuant to a services agreement with Google that expires on March 31, 2016. Pursuant to this agreement, we transmit search queries to Google, which in turn transmits a set of relevant and responsive paid listings back to us for display in search results. This ad-serving process occurs independently of, but concurrently with, the generation of algorithmic search results for the same search queries. Google paid listings are displayed separately from algorithmic search results and are identified as sponsored listings on search results pages. When a user submits a search query through our Search & Applications properties and services and clicks on a Google paid listing displayed in response to the query, Google bills the advertiser that purchased the paid listing directly and shares a portion of its related paid listing fee with us, which we in turn either retain in its entirety or share with third parties. To a lesser extent, we also syndicate Google paid listings through third parties with whom we enter into syndication agreements. See Item 1A-Risk Factors-We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse change in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenue is also derived from the sale of display, contentbased and other advertising pursuant to a variety of advertising models and the syndication of search results generated by Ask-branded destination search websites. Competition We compete with a wide variety of parties in connection with our efforts to: (i) attract users to our various Search & Applications properties and services generally; (ii) develop, market and distribute our B2C and B2B applications; (iii) attract third parties to distribute our Applications and related technology; and (iv) attract advertisers. In the case of our search services generally, our competitors include Google, Yahoo!, Bing and other destination search websites and searchcentric portals (some of which provide a broad range of content and services and/or link to various desktop applications), third party toolbar, convenience search and applications providers, other search technology and convenience service providers (including internet access providers, social media platforms, online advertising networks, traditional media companies and companies that provide online content). When we market our search and content services, our competitors include destination websites that primarily acquire traffic through paid and algorithmic search results. Moreover, some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they have the ability to devote comparatively greater resources to the development and promotion of their products and services, which could result in greater market acceptance of their products and services relative to those offered by us. In the case of our Websites, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the relevance and authority of our search results, answers and other content, the functionality of our various Websites and the quality of related content and features and the attractiveness of the services provided by our Websites generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors. We believe that we differentiate Ask.com from its competitors through question and answer services that provide accurate, authoritative and direct answers to naturallanguage questions (in the form of algorithmic search results and/or responses from other Ask.com users). Our ability to continue to differentiate Ask.com from its competitors in this manner depends primarily upon our ability to deliver authoritative and trustworthy content to users, as well as our ability to attract advertisers to this initiative. In the case of our Applications, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon our continued ability to create toolbars and other applications that resonate with consumers (which requires that we continue to bundle attractive features, content and services, some of which may be owned by third parties, with quality search services), differentiate our toolbars and other applications from those of our competitors (primarily through providing customized toolbars and access to multiple search and other services through our toolbars), secure cost-effective distribution arrangements with third parties and market and distribute our toolbars and other applications directly to consumers in a cost-effective manner. Match Overview Through the brands and businesses within our Match segment, we are a leading provider of subscriptionbased and adsupported online personals services in North America, Europe, Latin America, Australia and Asia. We provide these 5 Table of Contents services through websites and applications that we own and operate. Our European operations are conducted through an 81% stake in Meetic, S.A. ("Meetic"), which is based in France. As of December 31, 2012, we collectively provided online personals services to approximately 2.8 million subscribers. In addition, we own a 20% interest in Zhenai, Inc., a leading provider of online dating and matchmaking services in China. We refer to Match.com in the United States, Chemistry and PeopleMedia (through which we operate demographically targeted dating websites) as Match's "Core" operations, to OkCupid, DateHookup and Match's international operations (excluding Meetic) as Match's "Developing" operations and to our European operations as "Meetic." Services We provide online personals services through branded websites that we own and operate, including Match.com, Chemistry.com, OurTime.com, BlackPeopleMeet.com and OkCupid.com, and through a variety of Meeticbranded websites in Europe. These websites, all of which provide single adults with a private and convenient environment for meeting other single adults, provide online personals services to registered members (those establishing usernames and passwords) and subscribers (those who establish a username and password and pay a subscription fee). We are also the exclusive provider of subscriptionbased personals services on Yahoo.com. Within our portfolio of websites, we have both subscriptionbased and ad-supported offerings. Our subscriptionbased websites offer registered members the ability to post a profile and use any related searching and matching tools free of charge, while subscribers have access to enhanced tools and a broader feature set, including the ability to initiate, review or respond to communications with or from other users. Our subscription programs consist of programs with a singlemonth term, with discounts for programs with various longer terms. Our adsupported websites generally provide online personals services with basic functionality without the commitment of a monthly subscription, in some cases making a variety of premium or add-on features available for a fee. We also offer access to our services via various mobile devices through our Match, OkCupid, DateHookup and other branded mobile applications. As a complement to our online personals services, in June 2012, we introduced live, local events for our Match.com members. Marketing We market our services through a wide variety of offline and online marketing activities. Our offline marketing activities generally consist of traditional marketing and business development activities, including television, print and radio advertising and related public relations efforts, as well as events. Our online marketing activities generally consist of the purchase of banner and other display advertising, search engine marketing and e-mail campaigns. In addition, we enter into a variety of alliances with third parties who advertise and promote our services. Some alliances are exclusive and some, but not all, contain renewal provisions. In connection with the exclusive provision of subscriptionbased personals services on Yahoo.com, we made certain advertising commitments, which are reducible or terminable in certain circumstances. Revenue Match's revenue is derived primarily from subscription fees for our subscriptionbased online personals and related services. Match also earns revenue from online advertising and other add-on features, primarily from our OkCupid service. Competition The personals business is very competitive and highly fragmented and barriers to entry are minimal. We compete primarily with online and offline broadbased personals, dating and matchmaking services (both paid and free), social media platforms and applications, the personals sections of newspapers and magazines, other conventional media companies that provide personals services and traditional venues where singles meet (both online and offline). We also compete with numerous online and offline personals, dating and matchmaking services that cater to specific demographic groups. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size and diversity of our registered member and subscriber bases relative to those of our competitors; the functionality of our websites and mobile applications and the attractiveness of their features and our services and offerings generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors; how quickly we can enhance our existing technology and services and/or develop new features and services in response to: new, emerging and rapidly changing technologies; 6 Table of Contents the introduction of product and service offerings by our competitors; evolving industry standards; and changes in consumer requirements and trends in the single community relative to our competitors; and our ability to engage in cost-effective marketing efforts, including by way of maintaining relationships with third parties with which we have entered into alliances, and the recognition and strength of our various brands relative to those of our competitors. Local Our Local segment consists of HomeAdvisor (formerly ServiceMagic) and CityGrid Media. HomeAdvisor Overview. HomeAdvisor is a leading online marketplace for matching consumers with home services professionals in the United States. HomeAdvisor connects consumers, by way of patented proprietary technologies, with home services professionals, all of which are pre-screened and the majority of which are customerrated. As of December 31, 2012, HomeAdvisor's network of home services professionals consisted of more than 80,000 professionals in the United States providing services in more than 500 categories ranging from simple home repairs to home remodeling projects. Through a majority investment, HomeAdvisor also operates businesses in the online home services space in France and the United Kingdom under various brands. Services. When a consumer submits a request through the HomeAdvisor marketplace, we generally match that consumer with up to four home services professionals from our network based on the type of services desired and the consumer's location. Consumers can then review home services professional profiles and select the professional that they believe best meets their specific needs. In all cases, if a match is made, the consumer is under no obligation to work with home service professionals referred by HomeAdvisor. In addition to our matching services, consumers may also access our CostGuide, which provides project cost information for more than 250 project types on a local basis, and our online library of servicerelated resources, which primarily includes articles about home improvement, repair and maintenance, tools to assist consumers with the research, planning and management of their projects and general advice for working with home services professionals. HomeAdvisor also offers several mobile applications, including the HomeAdvisor.com, Home911 and HomeSavvy iPhone, iPad and Android applications. Home911 matches consumers with home services professionals on an expedited basis in the case of home repair emergencies and through HomeSavvy, consumers can maintain a customized home maintenance and repair schedule, together with project reminders. Marketing. We market our services to consumers primarily through search engine marketing, as well as through affiliate agreements with third parties. Pursuant to these agreements, third parties agree to advertise and promote our services and those of our home services professionals on their websites and we agree to pay them a fixed fee when visitors from their websites submit a valid service request through our website (on a cost-per-acquisition basis) or click through to our website (on a cost-per-click basis). We also market our services to consumers through the purchase of paid listings displayed in yellow page directories, portals and contextual home improvement related sites and, to a lesser extent, through traditional offline advertising. We market our services to home services professionals through our sales force, which obtains information concerning home services professionals through a variety of sources. We also promote online enrollment in our network through search engine marketing, relationships with trade associations and affiliate marketing relationships. Revenue. HomeAdvisor's revenue is derived from fees paid by members of our network of home services professionals for matches with consumers made by HomeAdvisor, regardless of whether the professional ultimately provides the requested service, as well as from fees charged upon the enrollment and activation of new home services professionals in our network. Fees for matches vary based upon the service requested and where the service is provided. Competition. We currently compete with internet search engines and directories and with other forms of local advertising, including radio, direct marketing campaigns, yellow pages, newspapers and other offline directories, as well as with home services-related lead generation services. We also compete with local and national retailers of home improvement products that 7 Table of Contents offer or promote installation services. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size, quality (as determined, in part, by reference to our pre-screening efforts and customer ratings and reviews), diversity and stability of our network of home services professionals and the quality of the services provided by these professionals; our continued ability to deliver service requests that convert into revenue for our network of home services professionals in a cost-effective manner; the functionality of our websites and mobile applications and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers and home services professionals, as well as our ability to introduce new products and services that resonate with consumers and home services professionals; and our ability to build and maintain awareness of, and loyalty to, the HomeAdvisor brand among consumers. CityGrid Media Overview. CityGrid Media is an online media company that owns and operates CityGrid, an advertising network that integrates local content and advertising for distribution to both affiliated and third party publishers across web and mobile platforms, as well as proprietary websites, such as Citysearch.com and Urbanspoon.com, through which consumers can access local merchant information and reviews online. In August 2012, CityGrid Media acquired Felix, a paypercall advertising service. CityGrid. Through CityGrid, we aggregate local business listings, advertising and content, including both editorial and other user-generated content, which we then distribute to publishers across web and mobile platforms. These publishers include third party websites and mobile applications, as well as the websites and applications we own and operate described below. Owned and Operated Properties. CityGrid Media owns and operates Citysearch.com, InsiderPages.com and Urbanspoon.com, websites that connect consumers with local businesses by providing consumers with free access to local business profiles, customized messages from local businesses, reviews and user-generated content and related information. Citysearch.com is a comprehensive directory of local business listings and related information across most verticals of businesses in the United States. InsiderPages.com publishes content regarding professional service providers based in the United States. Urbanspoon.com publishes content focused exclusively on restaurants and dining in North America, the United Kingdom and Australia. CityGrid also offers related mobile applications in the case of Citysearch.com and Urbanspoon.com. Revenue. CityGrid Media revenue is derived from the sale, both through a direct sales force and reseller relationships, of local and national online advertising distributed through the CityGrid advertising network. In the case of direct sales, the advertising is primarily pay-for-performance based, pursuant to which local businesses pay CityGrid each time an advertisement is viewed or each time a user calls a metered number. In the case of resellers, a variety of advertising models are utilized. Competition. The markets for local business advertising and content are highly competitive and diverse. We primarily compete with online and offline local and national directories and online and mobile advertising services and networks. We also face competition from search engines and other site aggregation companies that aggregate our content for display on their websites, which interferes with search engine optimization and marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to properties and applications affiliated with the CityGrid advertising network. Media Our Media segment consists primarily of Vimeo, Electus, Connected Ventures (which operates CollegeHumor Media and Notional), News_Beast (formerly The Newsweek/DailyBeast Company) and DailyBurn. Vimeo is a leading video hosting platform for creative professionals and consumers, offering video creators the tools required to create, share, distribute and monetize their content online. We believe that Vimeo attracts a distinct audience with its best-in-class, high definition video player, multi-pass video encoding and clean, uncluttered advertising experience. Vimeo's revenue is derived primarily from subscription product offerings, as well as advertising. 8 Table of Contents Electus is an integrated multimedia entertainment studio that unites producers, creators, advertisers and distributors to produce video content for distribution across a variety of platforms in the United States and various jurisdictions abroad. Connected Ventures operates CollegeHumor Media, an online entertainment company targeting males ages eighteen to forty-nine through CollegeHumor.com and other websites, as well as Notional, a content production studio which creates long-form content for distribution through traditional media channels. Our Media segment also includes News_Beast and DailyBurn. News_Beast is an online media company that currently produces the digital version of Newsweek magazine and operates TheDailyBeast.com, a website dedicated to news, commentary, culture and entertainment that curates and publishes existing and original online content from its own roster of contributors. DailyBurn is a health and fitness property that provides streaming fitness and workout videos across a variety of platforms, including iPhone, iPad and Android. Our Media segment revenue is derived primarily from advertising, media production and subscriptions. Other Our Other segment consists primarily of Shoebuy and Tutor. Shoebuy is a leading internet retailer of footwear and related apparel and accessories. Shoebuy generally passes purchases made by customers through its various websites on to the relevant vendors for fulfillment and shipping. Tutor is an online tutoring solution which was acquired in December 2012. Our Other segment revenue is derived primarily from merchandise sales and subscriptions. Employees As of December 31, 2012, IAC and its subsidiaries employed approximately 4,200 full-time employees. IAC believes that it generally has good employee relationships, including relationships with employees represented by unions or other similar organizations. Additional Information Company Website and Public Filings. The Company maintains a website at www.iac.com. Neither the information on the Company's website, nor the information on the website of any IAC business, is incorporated by reference in this annual report, or in any other filings with, or in any other information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Code of Ethics. The Company's code of ethics, as amended in April 2009, applies to all employees (including all of IAC's executive officers and senior financial officers (including IAC's Chief Financial Officer and Controller)) and directors and is posted on the Company's website at http://ir.iac.com/corporate-governance-document.cfm?DocumentID=11372. This code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K, and any waivers of such provisions of the code of ethics for IAC's executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, will also be disclosed on IAC's website. 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This annual report on Form 10-K contains forwardlooking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forwardlooking statements. These forwardlooking statements include, among others, statements relating to: IAC's future financial performance, IAC's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which IAC's businesses operate and other similar matters. These forwardlooking statements are based on IAC management's expectations and assumptions about future events as of the date of this annual report, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forwardlooking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect IAC's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forwardlooking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forwardlooking statements, which only reflect the views of IAC management as of the date of this annual report. IAC does not undertake to update these forwardlooking statements. Risk Factors Mr. Diller owns a significant percentage of the voting power of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over the composition of our Board of Directors, matters subject to stockholder approval and our operations. As of February 1, 2013, Mr. Diller owned 5,789,499 shares of IAC Class B common stock representing 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 42.5% of the total outstanding voting power of IAC. As of this date, Mr. Diller also owned 780,734 vested options to purchase IAC common stock and 225,000 unvested options to purchase IAC common stock. In addition, under an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelvemonth period. While Mr. Diller may not currently exercise this right, no assurances can be given that this right will not become exercisable in the future, and if so, that Mr. Diller will consent to any of the limited matters at such time, in which case IAC would not be able to engage in transactions or take actions covered by this consent right. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller currently is in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IAC's Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of voting power could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to IAC, which could adversely affect the market price of IAC securities. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success. Competition for well-qualified employees across IAC and its various businesses is intense and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future. We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse change in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to a services agreement with Google that expires on March 31, 2016. Pursuant to this agreement, we display and syndicate paid listings provided by Google in response to search queries generated by users of our Search & Applications properties. In exchange for making our search traffic available to Google, we receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listings supplied to us, as well as certain other searchrelated services. 10 Table of Contents The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements, the efficiency of Google's system in attracting advertisers and serving up paid listings in response to search queries and parameters established by Google regarding the number and placement of paid listings displayed in response to search queries. In addition, Google makes judgments about the relative attractiveness (to the advertiser) of clicks on paid listings from searches performed on our Search & Applications properties and these judgments factor into the amount of revenue we receive. Changes to Google's paid listings network efficiency, its judgment about the relative attractiveness of clicks on paid listings from our Search & Applications properties or the parameters applicable to the display of paid listings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such changes could come about for a number of reasons, including general market conditions, competition or policy and operating decisions made by Google. Our services agreement with Google requires that we comply with certain guidelines promulgated by Google for the use of its brands and services, including the manner in which Google's paid listings are displayed within search results, and that we establish guidelines to govern certain activities of third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings, including the manner in which these parties drive search traffic to their websites and display paid listings. Subject to certain limitations, Google may unilaterally update its policies and guidelines, which could in turn require modifications to, or prohibit and/or render obsolete certain of, our products, services and/or business practices, which could be costly to address or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with Google's guidelines by us or the third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings or through which we secure distribution arrangements for our toolbars could, if not cured, result in Google's suspension of some or all of its services to our websites or the websites of our third party partners, the imposition of additional restrictions on our ability to syndicate paid listings or the termination of the services agreement by Google. The termination of the services agreement by Google, the curtailment of IAC's rights under the agreement (whether pursuant to the terms thereof or otherwise) or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to obtain a renewal of our agreement with Google with substantially comparable economic and other terms upon the expiration of our current agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these events were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if an alternate provider were found, the economic and other terms of the agreement and the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenues. General economic events or trends that reduce advertising spending could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to online advertising. Accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to events and trends that could result in decreased advertising expenditures. Advertising expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, as well as levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Small and local businesses with which we do business are particularly sensitive to these events and trends, given that they are not as well situated to weather adverse economic conditions as their larger competitors, which are generally better capitalized and have greater access to credit. In the recent past, adverse economic conditions have caused, and if such conditions were to recur in the future they could cause, decreases and/or delays in advertising expenditures, which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising, particularly paid listings, as an effective alternative to traditional, offline advertising and the continued commercial use of the internet. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio and print, in addition to a multitude of websites with high levels of traffic and online advertising networks, for a share of available advertising expenditures and expect to face continued competition as more emerging media and traditional offline media companies enter the online advertising market. We believe that the continued growth and continued acceptance of online advertising generally will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models (particularly in the case of models that incorporate user targeting and/or utilize mobile devices), the continued growth in commercial use of the internet (particularly abroad), the extent to which web browsers, software programs and/or other applications that limit or prevent advertising from being displayed become commonplace and the extent to which the industry is able to effectively manage click fraud. Any lack of growth in the market 11 Table of Contents for online advertising, particularly for paid listings, or any decrease in the effectiveness and value of online advertising (whether due to the passage of laws requiring additional disclosure and/or opt-in policies for advertising that incorporates user targeting or other developments) would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, in part, upon arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites and distribute our products and services. We engage in a variety of activities designed to attract traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites, as well as the continued introduction of new and enhanced products and services that resonate with users and customers generally. For example, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to distribute Search & Applications search boxes, toolbars and other applications to users through third parties. Most of these agreements are either nonexclusive and shortterm in nature or, in the case of longterm or exclusive agreements, are terminable by either party in certain specified circumstances. In addition, a few of these agreements collectively represent a significant percentage of the revenue generated by our B2B applications. Our inability to enter into new (or renew existing) agreements to distribute our search boxes, toolbars and other applications through third parties for any reason would result in decreases in traffic, queries and advertising revenue, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the case of the businesses within our Match segment, we have entered into a number of arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our online personals websites. Pursuant to these arrangements, third parties generally promote our services on their websites or through e-mail campaigns and we either pay a fixed fee when visitors to these websites click through to or register with our online personals websites or pay a percentage of revenue we receive from such visitors who pay us subscription fees. These arrangements are generally not exclusive, are shortterm in nature and are generally terminable by either party given notice. If existing arrangements with third parties are terminated (or are not renewed upon their expiration) and we fail to replace this traffic and related revenues, or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with existing and/or new third parties in response to industry trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the case of our HomeAdvisor business, our ability to drive traffic depends, in part, on the nature and number of home services professionals who are members of our network. While these home services professionals are required to agree that they will operate in accordance with our terms and conditions, we do not enter into longterm agreements with them. In addition, a significant number of our home services professionals are sole proprietorships and small businesses, which are particularly sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as constrained liquidity and decreases in consumer spending. As a result, our network of home services professionals experiences turnover from time to time. This turnover, if significant or recurring over a prolonged period, could result in a decrease in traffic to HomeAdvisor.com and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our properties, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users and customers unless we continue to provide quality products and services. We may not be able to adapt quickly and/or in cost-effective manner to frequent changes in user and customer preferences, which can be difficult to predict, or appropriately time the introduction of enhancements and/or new products or services to the market. Our inability to provide quality products and services would adversely affect user and customer experiences, which would result in decreases in users, customers and revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed below, our traffic building and conversion initiatives also involve the expenditure of considerable sums for marketing, as well as for the development and introduction of new products, services and enhancements, infrastructure and other related efforts. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our various websites may not be successful or cost-effective. Traffic building and conversion initiatives involve considerable expenditures for online and offline advertising and marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenditures for search engine marketing (primarily in the form of the purchase of keywords), online display advertising and traditional offline advertising in connection with these initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. In the case of our search engine marketing efforts, our failure to respond successfully to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines could adversely affect the placement of paid listings that appear in response to keywords we purchase, as well as adversely affect the pricing of online advertising we purchase generally, which would increase our costs. In the case of paid advertising generally, the policies 12 Table of Contents of sellers and publishers of advertising may limit our ability to purchase certain types of advertising or advertise some of our products and services, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, users and customers is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well within search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of user searches. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our businesses, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related actions by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results (which actions by search service providers may result in algorithmic listings being displayed less prominently within search engine results), could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, search engines have increasingly expanded their offerings into other, non-search related categories, and have in certain instances displayed their own integrated or related product and service offerings in a more prominent manner than those of third parties within their search engine results. Continued expansion and competition from search engines could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, as discussed above, we also enter into various arrangements with third parties in an effort to increase traffic, which arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue would increase over the long-term. Any failure to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, traffic, users and customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and enhance our various brands. Through our various businesses, we own and operate a number of highly-recognizable brands with strong brand appeal within their respective industries. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our continuing ability to maintain and enhance these brands. Our brands could be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including product and service quality concerns, consumer complaints, actions brought by consumers, governmental or regulatory authorities and related media coverage and data protection and security breaches. Moreover, the failure to market our products and services successfully (or in a cost-effective manner), the inability to develop and introduce products and services that resonate with consumers and/or the inability to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost effective manner) to evolving changes in the internet and related technologies, applications and devices, could adversely impact our various brands, and in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The internet and related technologies and applications continue to evolve and we may not be able to adapt to these changes. The development of new products and services in response to the evolving trends and technologies of the internet, as well as the identification of new business opportunities in this dynamic environment, requires significant time and resources. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to these changes, appropriately time the introduction of new products and services to the market or identify new business opportunities in a timely manner. Also, these changes could require us to modify related infrastructures and our failure to do so could render our existing websites, applications, services and proprietary technologies obsolete. Our failure to respond to any of these changes appropriately (and/or in a cost effective manner) could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the case of certain of our Applications, third parties have introduced (and continue to introduce) new or updated technologies, applications and policies that may interfere with the ability of users to access or utilize these Applications generally or otherwise make users less likely to use these services (such as through the introduction of features and/or processes that disproportionately and adversely impact the ability of consumers to access and use these services relative to those of our competitors). For example, third parties continue to introduce technologies and applications (including new and enhanced web browsers and operating systems) that may limit or prevent certain types of applications from being installed and/or have features and policies that significantly lessen the likelihood that users will install our applications or that previously installed applications will remain in active use. In addition, there are technologies and applications that interfere with the functionality of (or settings changes made by) our Applications. For example, there are technologies and applications that interfere with search boxes embedded within our toolbars and the maintenance of home page and web browser search settings previously 13 Table of Contents selected by our users. These technologies, applications and policies adversely impact our ability to generate search queries through our Applications, which in turn adversely impacts our revenues. Technologies have also been introduced that can block the display of advertisements on web pages and that provide users with the ability to opt out of our advertising products. Our failure to successfully modify our toolbars and other Applications in a cost-effective manner in response to the introduction and adoption of these new technologies and applications could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends, in part, on our ability to develop and monetize mobile versions of our products and services. While most of our users currently access our products and services through personal computers, users of (and usage volumes on) mobile devices, including tablets, continue to increase relative to those of personal computers. While we have developed mobile versions of certain of our products and services and intend to continue to do so in the future, we have limited experience with mobile applications, both in terms of development and monetization. Moreover, mobile versions of our products and services that we develop may not be compelling to users and/advertisers. Even if we are able to develop mobile applications that resonate with users and advertisers, the success of these applications is dependent on their interoperability with various mobile operating systems, technologies, networks and standards that we do not control and any changes in any of these things that compromise the quality or functionality of our products and services could adversely impact usage of our products and services on mobile devices and, in turn, our ability to attract advertisers. Lastly, as the adoption of mobile devices becomes more widespread, the usage of certain of our products and services may not translate to mobile devices, which shift could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to replace the related revenues. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personal information and other user data (including credit card data) in connection with the processing of search queries, the provision of online products and services, transactions with users and customers and advertising on our websites. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are determined by the respective privacy and data security policies of our various businesses. These policies are, in turn, subject to federal, state and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information and user data. For example, if an online service provider fails to comply with its privacy policy, it could become subject to an investigation and proceeding brought by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act, as well as a private lawsuit under various U.S. federal and state laws. In general, personal information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. U.S. legislators and regulators may enact new laws and regulations regarding privacy and data security. In February 2012, the White House released a proposed Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, which is intended to serve as a framework for new privacy legislation. In March 2012, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission released a staff report making recommendations for businesses and policy makers in the area of consumer privacy. Similarly, new privacy laws and directives abroad, particularly in Europe, are being proposed and implemented. In addition, existing privacy laws that were intended for brick-and-mortar businesses could be interpreted in a manner that would extend their reach to our businesses. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws) in this area may make it more costly to operate our businesses and/or limit our ability to engage in certain types of activities, such as targeted advertising, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by our businesses. Also, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. In the case of security breaches involving personal credit card data, credit card companies could curtail our ability to transact payments and impose fines for failure to comply with Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards. The failure of any of our businesses, or their various third party vendors and service providers, to comply with applicable privacy policies, federal, state or foreign privacy laws and regulations or PCI standards and/or the unauthorized release of personal information or other user data for any reason could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated income taxes could be materially different from income taxes that we ultimately pay. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous jurisdictions abroad. Significant judgment and estimation is required in determining our provision for income taxes and related matters. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determinations are uncertain or otherwise subject to interpretation. Our determination of our income tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities and we 14 Table of Contents are currently subject to audits in a number of jurisdictions. Although we believe our income tax estimates and related determinations are reasonable and appropriate, relevant taxing authorities may disagree. The ultimate outcome of any such audits and reviews could be materially different from estimates and determinations reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses we acquire may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and we continue to seek to identify potential acquisitions candidates that will allow us to apply our expertise to expand their capabilities, as well as maximize our existing assets. As a result, our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. Even if we identify what we believe to be suitable acquisition candidates, we may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions, and to the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; successfully identify and realize potential synergies among acquired and existing businesses; retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and successfully manage acquisitionrelated strain on the management, operations and financial resources of IAC and its businesses and/or acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in increased operating losses, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events and/or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in various international markets, some in which we have limited experience. As a result, we face additional risks in connection with our international operations. Also, we may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into our existing, international markets. We currently operate in various jurisdictions abroad and may continue to expand our international presence. In order for our products and services in these jurisdictions to achieve widespread acceptance, commercial use and acceptance of the internet must continue to grow, which growth may occur at slower rates than those experienced in the United States. Moreover, we must continue to successfully tailor our products and services to the unique customs and cultures of foreign jurisdictions, which can be difficult and costly and the failure to do so could slow our international growth and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating abroad, particularly in jurisdictions where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulties in managing international operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with the establishment of management systems and infrastructures (including disclosure