Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8-Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. All references to IAC, the Company, we, our or us in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. Our History IAC, initially a hybrid media/electronic retailing company, was incorporated in 1986 in Delaware under the name Silver King Broadcasting Company, Inc. After several name changes (first to HSN, Inc., then to USA Networks, Inc., USA Interactive and InterActiveCorp, and finally to IAC/InterActiveCorp) and the completion of a number of significant corporate transactions over the years, the Company transformed itself into a leading media and Internet company. From 1997 through 2002, the Company acquired a controlling interest in Ticketmaster Group (and the remaining interest in 1998), Hotel Reservations Network (later renamed Hotels.com) and Expedia, as well as acquired Match.com and other smaller e-commerce companies. In 2002, the Company contributed its entertainment assets to Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, a joint venture, and sold its interests in that venture to NBC Universal in 2005. In 2003, the Company continued to grow its portfolio of e-commerce companies by acquiring all of the shares of Expedia.com, Hotels.com and Ticketmaster that it did not previously own, together with a number of other e-commerce companies (including LendingTree and Hotwire). In 2005, IAC acquired Ask Jeeves, Inc. (now known as IAC Search & Media, Inc.) and completed the separation of its travel and travelrelated businesses and investments into an independent public company called Expedia, Inc. In 2008, IAC separated into five publicly traded companies: IAC, HSN, Inc., Interval Leisure Group, Inc., Ticketmaster and Tree.com, Inc. In 2009, we sold the European operations of Match.com to Meetic S.A. (now known as Meetic S.A.S. (Meetic)), a leading European online dating company based in France, in exchange for a 27% interest in Meetic and a 5 million note. In 2010, we exchanged the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary that held our Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions businesses and approximately $218 million in cash for substantially all of Liberty Media Corporations equity stake in IAC. In 2011, we increased our ownership stake in Meetic to 81%. In 2012, we acquired The About Group, which primarily consists of About.com, a comprehensive online content and reference library. In 2014, we acquired the remaining publicly traded shares of Meetic, ValueClicks Owned and Operated website businesses, including Investopedia and PriceRunner, as well as The Princeton Review, a leading test preparation and college admission services company. EQUITY OWNERSHIP AND VOTE IAC has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and Class B common stock, with ten votes per share and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of January 30, 2015, Barry Diller, IACs Chairman and Senior Executive, owned 5,789,499 shares of Class B common stock (the Diller Shares) representing 100% of IACs outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 42.5% of the outstanding total voting power of IAC. Pursuant to an agreement between Mr. Diller and IAC, certain transfer restrictions apply to 1.5 million of the Diller Shares, including a requirement that, until December 1, 2015 and except for transfers to certain permitted transferees, the Diller Shares must first be converted into common stock in order to be transferred. In addition, pursuant to an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IACs Chairman and Senior Executive, 2 Table of Contents he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IACs ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelve-month period. As a result of Mr. Dillers ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller is currently in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IACs Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. 3 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF IAC BUSINESSES Search & Applications Overview Our Search & Applications segment consists of: Websites, including Ask.com, About.com, CityGrid, Dictionary.com, Investopedia, PriceRunner and Ask.fm, through which we provide search services, content and other services; and Applications, including our direct-to-consumer downloadable applications operations (B2C), our partnership operations (B2B), SlimWare and Apalon. Our Websites and Applications businesses provide search services and content to our users. Search services generally involve the generation and display of a set of hyperlinks to websites deemed relevant to search queries entered by users. In addition to these algorithmic search results, paid listings are also generally displayed in response to search queries. Paid listings are advertisements displayed on search results pages that generally contain a link to an advertisers website. Paid listings are generally displayed based on keywords selected by the advertiser. The paid listings we display are supplied to us by Google Inc. (Google) pursuant to a services agreement with Google that expires on March 31, 2016. Websites Our Websites business primarily consists of the following destination websites: Ask.com, which provides general search services, as well as question and answer services that provide direct answers to natural-language questions; About.com, which provides detailed information and content written by independent, freelance subject matter experts across hundreds of vertical categories; Dictionary.com, which primarily provides online and mobile dictionary and reference services; Investopedia, a resource for investment and personal finance education and information; PriceRunner, a shopping comparison website; and Ask.fm, a question and answer social network. Our Websites business also includes CityGrid, an advertising network that integrates local content and advertising for distribution to both affiliated and third party publishers across web and mobile platforms. Applications Our Applications business consists of our B2C and B2B operations, as well as SlimWare, a provider of community-powered software and services that clean, repair, update and optimize personal computers, and Apalon, a developer of a large and growing suite of mobile applications worldwide. Our B2C operations develop, market and distribute a variety of downloadable applications that offer users the ability to access search services, as well as engage in a number of other activities online, such as play games, send e-cards, decorate e-mails and web pages and explore select vertical categories. The majority of our B2C applications are toolbars, which consist of a browser search box and related technology (which together enable users to run search queries and otherwise access search services directly from their web browsers). Many of our toolbars are coupled with other applications that we have developed that enable users to personalize their online activities and otherwise make these activities more expressive and fun. These applications include: MyFunCards, through which users can send online greeting cards; Popular Screensavers, through which users can personalize their desktops with photos, images and animations; and Retrogamer and Gaming Wonderland, through which users can access classic arcade, sports and action and other casual games directly from their web browsers. Other B2C applications target users with a special or passionate interest in select vertical categories (such as television programming, sports, shopping and gossip, among others) or provide users with particular reference information or access to specific utilities (such as maps, weather forecasts or file conversion technology). We distribute our B2C applications directly to consumers free of charge. Our B2B operations work closely with partners in the software, media and other industries to design and develop customized browserbased search applications to be bundled and distributed with these partners products and services. We also market and distribute a number of mobile applications through which we provide search and other services, including: the Ask.com iOS and Android applications, which provide general search and naturallanguage question and answer services, and the Dictionary.com iOS and Android applications, which provide dictionary and reference services. Revenue The Search & Applications segments revenue consists principally of advertising revenue, which is generated primarily through the display of paid listings in response to search queries, as well as from display advertisements appearing on its websites and, to a lesser extent, the syndication of search results generated by Ask-branded destination search websites. The 4 Table of Contents substantial majority of the paid listings we display are supplied to us by Google pursuant to our services agreement with Google. Pursuant to this agreement, we transmit search queries to Google, which in turn transmits a set of relevant and responsive paid listings back to us for display in search results. This ad-serving process occurs independently of, but concurrently with, the generation of algorithmic search results for the same search queries. Google paid listings are displayed separately from algorithmic search results and are identified as sponsored listings on search results pages. Paid listings are priced on a price per click basis and when a user submits a search query through our Search & Applications properties or services and then clicks on a Google paid listing displayed in response to the query, Google bills the advertiser that purchased the paid listing directly and shares a portion of the fee charged to the advertiser with us. We recognize paid listing revenue from Google when it delivers the user's click. In cases where the users click is generated due to the efforts of a third party distributor, we recognize the amount due from Google as revenue and record a revenue share or other payment obligation to the third party distributor as traffic acquisition costs. To a lesser extent, we also syndicate Google paid listings to third party websites with whom we enter into syndication agreements. See Item 1A-Risk Factors-We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse change in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition We compete with a wide variety of parties in connection with our efforts to: attract and retain users to our various Search & Applications properties and services generally; develop, market and distribute our Applications; attract third parties to distribute our Applications and related technology; and attract advertisers. In the case of our search services generally, our competitors include Google, Yahoo!, Bing and other destination search websites and searchcentric portals (some of which provide a broad range of content and services and/or link to various desktop applications), third party toolbar, convenience search and applications providers, other search technology and convenience service providers (including Internet access providers, social media platforms, online advertising networks, traditional media companies and companies that provide online content). When we market our content and other services, our competitors include destination websites that primarily acquire traffic through paid and algorithmic search results. Moreover, some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they have the ability to devote comparatively greater resources to the development and promotion of their products and services, which could result in greater market acceptance of their products and services relative to those offered by us. In the case of our Websites business, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon: the relevance and authority of our search results, answers and other content; the quality of the content and features on our various websites, and the attractiveness of the services provided by these websites generally, relative to those of our competitors; our continued ability to differentiate Ask.com from its competitors through question and answer services that provide accurate, authoritative and direct answers to naturallanguage questions (in the form of algorithmic search results and/or responses from other Ask.com users, as well as indexed question and answer pairings from various websites and online services), which depends primarily upon our ability to deliver authoritative and trustworthy content to users, as well as our ability to attract advertisers to this initiative; and our ability to successfully market our products and services effectively. In the case of our Applications business, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon our continued ability to: create toolbars and other applications that resonate with consumers (which requires that we continue to bundle attractive features, content and services, some of which may be owned by third parties, with quality search services); maintain industry-leading monetization solutions for our Applications; differentiate our toolbars and other applications from those of our competitors (primarily through providing customized toolbars and access to multiple search and other services through our toolbars); secure cost-effective distribution arrangements with third parties; and market and distribute our toolbars and other applications directly to consumers in a cost-effective manner. 5 Table of Contents The Match Group Overview The Match Group segment consists of our North America dating businesses (which include Match, Chemistry, People Media, OkCupid, Tinder and other dating businesses operating within the United States and Canada), our International dating businesses (which include Meetic, Tinder and all other dating businesses operating outside of the United States and Canada) and our non-dating businesses, The Princeton Review, Tutor.com and DailyBurn. Through the brands and businesses within our dating businesses, we are a leading provider of subscription-based and ad-supported online personals services in North America, Europe, Latin America, Australia and Asia. We provide these services through websites and applications that we own and operate. As December 31, 2014, we collectively provided online personals services to approximately 3.5 million subscribers. In addition, we own a 20% interest in Zhenai, Inc., a leading provider of online dating and matchmaking services in China. Through the brands and businesses within our non-dating businesses, we provide a variety of educational services, including in-person and online test preparation and tutoring (The Princeton Review and Tutor.com), as well as streaming fitness and workout videos across a variety of platforms (DailyBurn). Dating Services. We provide online personals services through various branded websites that we own and operate, all of which provide single adults with a private and convenient environment for meeting other single adults. These websites provide online personals services to registered members (those who establish a username and password) and subscribers (those who establish a username and password and pay a subscription fee). Within our portfolio of websites, we have both subscriptionbased and ad-supported offerings. Our subscriptionbased websites offer registered members the ability to post a profile and use any related searching and matching tools free of charge, while subscribers have access to enhanced tools and a broader feature set, including the ability to initiate, review and respond to communications with or from other users. Our subscription programs consist of programs with a singlemonth term, with discounts for programs with various longer terms. Our adsupported websites generally provide online personals services with basic functionality without the commitment of a monthly subscription, in some cases making a variety of premium or add-on features available for a fee. We also offer access to our services via various mobile devices through our Match, OkCupid, Tinder and other branded mobile applications. We also provide live, local events for our Match members in certain markets in North America and Europe. Marketing. We market our online personals services through a wide variety of offline and online marketing activities. Our offline marketing activities generally consist of traditional marketing and business development activities, including television, radio and print advertising and related public relations efforts, as well as events. Our online marketing activities generally consist of the purchase of banner and other display advertising, search engine marketing and e-mail campaigns. Revenue. Dating revenue is derived primarily from subscription fees for our subscriptionbased online personals and related services. Revenue is also derived from online advertising and the purchase of add-on or premium features. Competition. The personals business is very competitive and highly fragmented and barriers to entry are minimal. We compete primarily with online and offline broadbased personals, dating and matchmaking services (both paid and free), social media platforms and applications, the personals sections of newspapers and magazines, other conventional media companies that provide personals services and traditional venues where singles meet (both online and offline). We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the case of our dating businesses will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size and diversity of our registered member and subscriber bases relative to those of our competitors; the functionality of our websites and mobile applications and the attractiveness of their features and our services and offerings generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors; how quickly we can enhance our existing technology and services and/or develop new features and services in response to: new, emerging and rapidly changing technologies; the introduction of product and service offerings by our competitors; evolving industry standards; and 6 Table of Contents changes in consumer requirements and trends in the single community relative to our competitors; our ability to engage in cost-effective marketing efforts; and the recognition and strength of our various brands relative to those of our competitors. Non-Dating Services. The Princeton Review is a leading provider of college and graduate school admissions test preparation and college readiness services to individuals, schools and school districts. Through Tutor.com, we provide a wide variety of live, one-on-one, on-demand tutoring in over forty different subjects through our online interactive classroom to libraries, colleges and universities, the United States military, businesses and individuals. DailyBurn is a health and fitness property that provides streaming fitness and workout videos across a variety of platforms, including iOS, Android, Xbox and other Internet-enabled television platforms. Marketing. We market our test preparation and tutoring services primarily through search engine marketing, direct marketing campaigns and public relations efforts, as well as through attendance at industry conferences and our sales force. We market our streaming fitness and workout videos primarily through television advertising, advertising on ad-supported video-on-demand services and content platforms and search engine marketing. Revenue. The Princeton Review and Tutor.coms revenue consists primarily of fees received for in-person and online test preparation classes, access to online test preparation materials and individual tutoring services. DailyBurns revenue consists primarily of subscription fees. Competition. The markets for test preparation, college readiness services and tutoring services are highly competitive and barriers to entry are minimal. We compete primarily with regional and national test preparation companies, as well as online providers of test preparation and college readiness services with limited overhead costs that reach a national audience, and individual tutors. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the case of The Princeton Review and Tutor.com will depend primarily upon the following factors: the recognition and strength of The Princeton Review brand relative to those of its competitors and our ability to build and maintain awareness of (and loyalty to) the Tutor.com brand; our ability to engage in cost-effective marketing efforts; the quality of our offerings generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors; and the quality, diversity and stability of our instructors and tutors and the quality of the services provided by these professionals. The fitness and workout market is highly competitive and barriers to entry, particularly in the case of online platforms, are minimal. We compete primarily with other streaming fitness and workout platforms and, to a lesser extent, fitness and workout DVDs. Media Overview Our Media segment consists primarily of Vimeo, Electus and The Daily Beast. Vimeo operates a global video sharing platform for creators and their audiences. Vimeo offers video creators simple, professional-grade tools to share, distribute and monetize content online, and provides viewers with a clutter-free environment to watch content across a variety of Internet-enabled devices. As of December 31, 2014, Vimeo had approximately 35 million registered members and reached a global monthly audience of more than 160 million. Electus is an integrated multimedia entertainment studio that unites producers, creators, advertisers and distributors to produce video content for distribution across a variety of platforms in the United States and various jurisdictions abroad. Electus also operates Electus Digital, which consists of the following websites and properties: CollegeHumor.com, Dorkly.com and WatchLOUD.com; YouTube channels WatchLOUD, Nuevon and Hungry; and Big Breakfast (a production company). The Daily Beast is a website dedicated to news, commentary, culture and entertainment that curates and publishes existing and original online content from its own roster of contributors in the United States. 7 Table of Contents Vimeo Services. Through Vimeo, we offer video creators simple, professional grade tools to share, distribute and monetize content online, and provide viewers with a clutter-free environment to watch content across a variety of Internet-enabled devices, including mobile devices and connected television platforms. We offer these basic services free of charge. We also offer premium services for a fee through two subscription-based products, which provide subscribers with varying levels of premium features, including: additional added storage space, priority video conversion, advanced video privacy controls, extensive video player customization options, premium support and the ability to sell videos. As of December 31, 2014, Vimeo had over 500,000 paid subscribers. We also provide transactional video-on-demand services through Vimeo On Demand, which allows video creators to sell videos they create to viewers. As of December 31, 2014, Vimeo On Demand featured over 16,000 titles from a variety of genres that can be purchased and viewed by consumers on vimeo.com or on third party websites with an embedded Vimeo On Demand player. Titles are acquired from video creators by way of direct uploads to vimeo.com and through negotiated agreements with content owners, producers and distributors. We also sell custom advertising through our Brand Creative Fund service, which connects advertisers with video creators to produce original, branded videos, which are then presented as brand-sponsored content on vimeo.com and/or the advertiser websites. Marketing. We market Vimeos services primarily through online marketing efforts, including search engine marketing, e-mail campaigns, display advertising, affiliate marketing and television advertising and, in the case of our subscription-based offerings only, through upgrade channels on vimeo.com. Revenue. Vimeo revenue is derived primarily from subscription fees and, to a lesser extent, from video and advertising sales. Competition. Vimeo competes with a variety of online video providers, including platforms that provide videos to consumers on an advertising-supported, subscription or transactional fee basis. We believe that Vimeo differentiates itself from its competitors by offering a customizable, high definition video player, proprietary uploading and encoding infrastructure and a clutter-free viewing experience (advertisements are not placed in videos created by registered members and subscribers). We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily on: the quality of our platform and the viewing experience we provide; our ability to engage with users on mobile devices; whether our subscription offerings resonate with video creators; our ability to attract high-quality content, both for free and fee-based viewing; the accessibility of our videos on search engines and social media platforms; the recognition and strength of the Vimeo brand relative to those of our competitors; and our ability to drive new subscribers and viewers to our platform through various forms of direct advertising. Electus Services. Through Electus, we provide production and producer services for both unscripted and scripted television, feature film and digital content, primarily for initial sale and distribution in the United States. Our content is distributed on a wide range of platforms, including broadcast television, premium and basic cable television, subscription-based and ad-supported video-on-demand services and through theatrical releases and other outlets. We sell and distribute Electus programming and other content, together with programming and other content developed by third parties, outside of the United States through Electus International. We also work with various brands to integrate their products into, as well as sponsor, Electus content through our Content Marketing team. In addition, we operate Electus Digital, which consists of the following websites and properties: CollegeHumor.com, Dorkly.com and WatchLOUD.com; YouTube channels WatchLOUD, Nuevon and Hungry; and Big Breakfast (a production company). The various brands and businesses within Electus Digital specialize in creating content for digital, television and feature film platforms across a variety of genres, as well as provide branded and third party creative production services. Revenue. Electus revenue is derived primarily from media production. Marketing. We do not engage in any formal marketing efforts in the case of our production and executive producer services, instead relying on referrals and the quality of our services and projects. For content distribution, we rely on our sales force, referrals and the quality of our services and projects, and for international distribution only, attendance at industry trade 8 Table of Contents shows. In addition, the platforms to which we license our content for distribution market our content through their own independent marketing efforts. Electus Digital attracts users and audience primarily through social media, search engine marketing and affiliate agreements. Competition. We compete with entertainment studios, production companies, distribution companies, creative agencies and content websites. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the quality and diversity of our content and the third parties to whom we license our content, as well as the quality of the services provided by licensees of our content; our continued ability to create new content that resonates with licensees and viewers; and our ability to sell integration and sponsorship opportunities for our content. eCommerce Our eCommerce segment consists primarily of HomeAdvisor and ShoeBuy. HomeAdvisor Overview. HomeAdvisor is a leading online marketplace for matching consumers with home services professionals in the United States, as well as in France and the Netherlands under various brands. HomeAdvisor connects consumers, by way of proprietary and patented technologies, with home services professionals, most of which are pre-screened and customerrated. As of December 31, 2014, HomeAdvisors network of home services professionals consisted of more than 85,000 professionals in the United States providing services in more than 500 categories ranging from simple home repairs to larger home remodeling projects. HomeAdvisor also operates mHelpDesk, a provider of cloud based field service software for small to mid-size businesses. Matching and Other Consumer Services. When a consumer submits a request through the HomeAdvisor marketplace, we generally match that consumer with up to four home services professionals from our network based on the type of services desired and the consumers location. Consumers can then review profiles of home services professionals with whom they have been matched and select the professional whom they believe best meets their specific needs. In addition to (or in lieu of) submitting a request through our marketplace, consumers can also search, select and contact home service professionals directly through our online directory. In all cases, the consumer is under no obligation to work with home service professionals referred by or found through HomeAdvisor. In addition to matching services, consumers can access our free, online CostGuide, which provides project cost information for more than 250 project types on a local basis, as well as an online library of servicerelated resources, which primarily includes articles about home improvement, repair and maintenance, tools to assist consumers with the research, planning and management of their projects and general advice for working with home services professionals. Consumers can also access all HomeAdvisor services and tools on iOS and Android devices though the HomeAdvisor mobile application. Subscription Services for Home Services Professionals. We offer multiple subscription products for home services professionals, each for a flat monthly, quarterly or annual fee. The basic membership package includes membership in our network of home services professionals, as well as a listing in our online directory. Additional membership packages include all of the basic membership package services, plus matches through the marketplace and, in the case of one package, custom website and mobile development and hosting services. Home services professionals who are new to HomeAdvisor must generally sign up for one of the subscription products described above. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 45,000 of the more than 85,000 home services professionals within our network had purchased a membership package. Revenue. HomeAdvisors revenue is primarily derived from fees paid by home services professionals for consumer matches (regardless of whether the professional ultimately provides the requested service), subscription fees and fees for website hosting services. Fees for matches vary based upon the service requested and where the service is provided. Marketing. We market our services to consumers primarily through television marketing, as well as search engine marketing and through affiliate agreements with third parties. Pursuant to these agreements, third parties agree to advertise and promote our services and those of our home services professionals on their websites and we agree to pay them a fixed fee when visitors from their websites submit a valid service request through our website (on a cost-per-acquisition basis) or click through to our website (on a cost-per-click basis). We also market our services to consumers through the purchase of paid listings displayed in yellow page directories, portals and contextual home improvement related sites and, to a lesser extent, through radio advertising. We market our subscription packages to home services professionals through our sales force, as well as through search engine marketing, relationships with trade associations and affiliate marketing relationships. 9 Table of Contents Competition. We compete with home services-related lead generation services, as well as Internet search engines and directories and with other forms of local advertising, including radio, direct marketing campaigns, yellow pages, newspapers and other offline directories. We also compete with local and national retailers of home improvement products that offer or promote installation services. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size, quality (as determined, in part, by reference to our pre-screening efforts and customer ratings and reviews), diversity and stability of our network of home services professionals and the quality of the services they provide; our continued ability to deliver service requests that convert into revenue for our network of home services professionals in a cost-effective manner; whether our subscription products resonate with (and provide value to) our home services professionals; the functionality of our websites and mobile applications and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers and home services professionals, as well as our ability to introduce new products and services that resonate with consumers and home services professionals; and our ability to build and maintain awareness of (and loyalty to) the HomeAdvisor brand. ShoeBuy ShoeBuy is a leading Internet retailer of footwear and related apparel and accessories. ShoeBuy generally passes purchases made by customers through its various websites on to the relevant vendors for fulfillment and shipping. ShoeBuys revenue consists of merchandise sales, reduced by incentive discounts and sales returns. We market ShoeBuy to consumers primarily through search engine marketing, affiliate agreements and comparison shopping engines. ShoeBuy competes primarily with other leading internet footwear and other retailers and traditional footwear and other retailers with an offline and online presence. Employees As of December 31, 2014, IAC and its subsidiaries employed approximately 5,000 full-time employees. IAC believes that it generally has good employee relationships, including relationships with employees represented by unions or other similar organizations. Additional Information Company Website and Public Filings. The Company maintains a website at www.iac.com. Neither the information on the Companys website, nor the information on the website of any IAC business, is incorporated by reference into this annual report, or into any other filings with, or into any other information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Code of Ethics. The Companys code of ethics applies to all employees (including all of IACs executive officers and senior financial officers (including IACs Chief Financial Officer and Controller)) and directors and is posted on the Company's website at http://ir.iac.com/corporate-governance-document.cfm?DocumentID=11373. This code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K, and any waivers of such provisions of the code of ethics for IACs executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, will also be disclosed on IACs website. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This annual report on Form 10-K contains forwardlooking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forwardlooking statements. These forwardlooking statements include, among others, statements relating to: IACs future financial performance, IACs business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which IACs businesses operate and other similar matters. These forwardlooking statements are based on IAC management's expectations and assumptions about future events as of the date of this annual report, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forwardlooking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect IACs business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forwardlooking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forwardlooking statements, which only reflect the views of IAC management as of the date of this annual report. IAC does not undertake to update these forwardlooking statements. Risk Factors Mr. Diller owns a significant percentage of the voting power of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over the composition of our Board of Directors, matters subject to stockholder approval and our operations. As of January 30, 2015, Mr. Diller owned 5,789,499 shares of IAC Class B common stock representing 100% of IACs outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 42.5% of the total outstanding voting power of IAC. As of this date, Mr. Diller also owned 930,734 vested options to purchase IAC common stock and 75,000 unvested options to purchase IAC common stock. In addition, under an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IACs Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IACs ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelvemonth period. While Mr. Diller may not currently exercise this right, no assurances can be given that this right will not become exercisable in the future, and if so, that Mr. Diller will consent to any of the limited matters at such time, in which case IAC would not be able to engage in transactions or take actions covered by this consent right. As a result of Mr. Dillers ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller currently is in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IACs Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of voting power could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to IAC, which could adversely affect the market price of IAC securities. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success. Competition for well-qualified employees across IAC and its various businesses is intense and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future. Effective succession planning is also important to our future success. If we fail to ensure the effective transfer of senior management knowledge and smooth transitions involving senior management across our various businesses, our ability to execute short and long term strategic, financial and operating goals, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations generally, could be adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse change in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to a services agreement with Google that expires on March 31, 2016. Pursuant to this agreement, we display and syndicate paid listings provided by Google in response to search queries generated by users of our Search & Applications properties. In exchange for making our search traffic available to Google, we receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listings supplied to us, as well as certain other searchrelated services. The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements, the efficiency of Googles system in attracting advertisers and serving up paid listings in response to search queries and parameters established by Google regarding the number and placement of paid listings displayed in response to search queries. In addition, Google makes judgments about the relative attractiveness (to advertisers) of clicks on paid listings from searches performed on our Search & Applications properties and these judgments factor into the amount of revenue we receive. Google also makes judgments about the relative attractiveness (to users) of paid listings from searches and these judgments factor into the amount of advertisements we can purchase. Changes to Googles paid listings network efficiency, its judgment about the relative attractiveness to advertisers of clicks on paid listings from our Search & Applications properties, its judgment about the relative attractiveness to users of paid listings from searches or the parameters applicable to the display of paid listings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such changes could come about for a number of reasons, including general market conditions, competition or policy and operating decisions made by Google. Our services agreement with Google requires that we comply with certain guidelines promulgated by Google for the use of its brands and services, including the manner in which Googles paid listings are displayed within search results, and that we establish guidelines to govern certain activities of third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings, including the manner in which these parties drive search traffic to their websites and display paid listings. Subject to certain limitations, Google may unilaterally update its policies and guidelines without advance notice, which could in turn require modifications to, or prohibit and/or render obsolete certain of, our products, services and/or business practices, which could be costly to address or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with Googles guidelines by us or the third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings or through which we secure distribution arrangements for our applications could, if not cured, result in Googles suspension of some or all of its services to our websites or the websites of our third party partners, the imposition of additional restrictions on our ability to syndicate paid listings or the termination of the services agreement by Google. The termination of the services agreement by Google, the curtailment of IACs rights under the agreement (whether pursuant to the terms thereof or otherwise) or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to obtain a renewal of our agreement with Google with substantially comparable economic and other terms upon the expiration of our current agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Google's ability to limit our ability to market our products and services through its advertising services, whether due to policy or competitive reasons or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these events were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if an alternate provider were found, the economic and other terms of the agreement and the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenues. General economic events or trends that reduce advertising spending could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to online advertising. Accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to events and trends that could result in decreased advertising expenditures. Advertising expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, as well as levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Small and local businesses with which we do business are particularly sensitive to these events and trends, given that they are not as well situated to weather adverse economic conditions as their larger competitors, which are generally better capitalized and have greater access to credit. In the recent past, adverse economic conditions have caused, and if such conditions were to recur in the future they could cause, decreases and/or delays in advertising expenditures, which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends upon the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising, particularly paid listings, as an effective alternative to traditional, offline advertising and the continued commercial use of the Internet. We continue to compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio and print, in addition to a multitude of websites with high levels of traffic and online advertising networks, for a share of available advertising expenditures and expect to face continued competition as more emerging media and traditional offline media companies continue to enter the online advertising market. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising generally will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models (particularly in the case of models that incorporate user targeting and/or utilize mobile devices), the continued growth in commercial use of the Internet (particularly abroad), the extent to which web browsers, software programs and/or other applications that limit or prevent advertising from being displayed become commonplace and the extent to which the industry is able to effectively manage click fraud. Any lack of growth in the market for online advertising, particularly for paid listings, or any decrease in the effectiveness and value of online advertising (whether due to the passage of laws requiring additional disclosure, an industry-wide move to self-regulatory principles that require additional disclosure and/or opt-in policies for advertising that incorporate user targeting or other developments) would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, in part, upon arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites and distribute our products and services. We engage in a variety of activities designed to attract traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites, as well as the continued introduction of new and enhanced products and services that resonate with users and customers generally. For example, we have entered into (and expect to continue to enter into) agreements to distribute Search & Applications search boxes, toolbars and other applications to users through third parties. Most of these agreements are either nonexclusive and shortterm in nature or, in the case of longterm or exclusive agreements, are terminable by either party in certain specified circumstances. In addition, a few of these agreements collectively represent a significant percentage of the revenue generated by our B2B operations. Our inability to enter into new (or renew existing) agreements to distribute our search boxes, toolbars and other applications through third parties for any reason would result in decreases in website traffic, queries and advertising revenue, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the case of the businesses within The Match Group segment, we have entered into a number of arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our online personals websites. Pursuant to these arrangements, third parties generally promote our services on their websites or through e-mail campaigns and we either pay a fixed fee when visitors to these websites click through to (or register with) our online personals websites or pay a percentage of revenue we receive from such visitors who pay us subscription fees. These arrangements are generally not exclusive, are shortterm in nature and are generally terminable by either party given notice. If existing arrangements with third parties are terminated (or are not renewed upon their expiration) and we fail to replace this traffic and related revenues, or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with existing and/or new third parties in response to industry trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the case of our HomeAdvisor business, our ability to drive traffic depends, in part, on the nature and number of home services professionals who are members of our network. While these home services professionals are required to agree that they will operate in accordance with our terms and conditions, we do not enter into longterm agreements with them generally and subscription memberships may be canceled at any time. In addition, a significant number of our home services professionals are sole proprietorships and small businesses, which are particularly sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as constrained liquidity and decreases in consumer spending. As a result, our network of home services professionals experiences turnover. This turnover, if significant or recurring over a prolonged period, could result in a decrease in traffic to HomeAdvisor.com and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our properties, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users and customers unless we continue to provide quality products and services. For example, in the case of About.com, we rely on independent, freelance subject matter experts to generate quality content for our users. If we fail to recruit and retain such experts generally and/or the experts ultimately retained cannot provide us with quality content in a cost-effective manner, the experience of our users would be adversely affected, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to adapt quickly and/or in a cost-effective manner to frequent changes in user and customer preferences, which can be difficult to predict, or appropriately time the introduction of enhancements and/or new products or services to the market. Our inability to provide quality products and services would adversely affect user and customer experiences, which would result in decreases in users, customers and revenues and could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed below, our traffic building and conversion initiatives also involve the expenditure of considerable sums for marketing, as well as for the development and introduction of new products, services and enhancements, infrastructure and other related efforts. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our various websites may not be successful or cost-effective. Traffic building and conversion initiatives involve considerable expenditures for online and offline advertising and marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenditures for search engine marketing (primarily in the form of the purchase of keywords, which we purchase primarily through Google), online display advertising and traditional offline advertising in connection with these initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. In the case of our search engine marketing efforts, our failure to respond successfully to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines, as well as changing policies and guidelines applicable to keyword advertising (which may be unilaterally updated by Google without advance notice), could adversely affect the placement of paid listings that appear in response to keywords we purchase and the related user experience, as well as adversely affect the pricing of online advertising we purchase generally, which would increase our costs and adversely impact the effectiveness of our advertising efforts overall. In the case of paid advertising generally, the policies of sellers and publishers of advertising (including Google) may limit our ability to purchase certain types of advertising or advertise some of our products and services, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new (and retain existing) users and customers is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well within search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of search results. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our businesses, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related actions by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results (which actions by search service providers may result in algorithmic listings being displayed less prominently within search engine results), could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, search engines continue to expand their offerings into other, non-search related categories, and in certain instances display their own integrated or related product and service offerings in a more prominent manner than those of third parties within their search results. Continued expansion and competition from search engines could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, as discussed above, we also enter into various arrangements with third parties in an effort to increase traffic, which arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue would increase over the long-term. Any failure to attract and acquire new (and retain existing) traffic, users and customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to build, maintain and/or enhance our various brands. Through our various businesses, we own and operate a number of highly-recognizable brands with strong brand appeal within their respective industries, as well as a number of fledgling brands that we are in the process of building. We believe that our success depends, in part, upon our continuing ability to maintain and enhance our established brands, as well as build awareness of (and loyalty to) our fledgling brands. Our brands and brand-building efforts could be negatively impacted by a 14 Table of Contents number of factors, including product and service quality concerns, consumer complaints, actions brought by consumers, governmental or regulatory authorities and related media coverage and data protection and security breaches. Moreover, the failure to market our products and services successfully (or in a cost-effective manner), the inability to develop and introduce products and services that resonate with consumers and/or the inability to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost effective manner) to evolving changes in the Internet and related technologies, applications and devices, could adversely impact our various brands and brand-building efforts, and in turn, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Internet and related technologies and applications continue to evolve and we may not be able to adapt to these changes. The development of new products and services in response to the evolving trends and technologies of the Internet, as well as the identification of new business opportunities in this dynamic environment, require significant time and resources. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to these changes, appropriately time the introduction of new products and services to the market or identify new business opportunities in a timely manner. Also, these changes could require us to modify related infrastructures and our failure to do so could render our existing websites, applications, services and proprietary technologies obsolete. Our failure to respond to any of these changes appropriately (and/or in a cost effective manner) could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the case of certain of our applications, third parties have introduced (and continue to introduce) new or updated technologies and policies that may interfere with the ability of users to access or utilize our applications generally or otherwise make users less likely to use our services (such as through the introduction of features and/or processes that disproportionately and adversely impact the ability of consumers to access and use our services relative to those of our competitors). For example, third parties continue to introduce technologies (including new and enhanced web browsers and operating systems) that may limit or prevent certain types of applications from being installed and/or have features and policies that significantly lessen the likelihood that users will install our applications or that previously installed applications will remain in active use. In addition, there are technologies that interfere with the functionality of (or settings changes made by) our applications. For example, there are technologies that interfere with search boxes embedded within our toolbars and the maintenance of home page and web browser search settings previously selected by our users. These technologies, applications and policies adversely impact our ability to generate search queries through our applications, which in turn adversely impacts our revenues. Technologies have also been introduced that can block the display of advertisements on web pages and that provide users with the ability to opt out of advertising products. Our failure to successfully modify our toolbars and other applications in a cost-effective manner in response to the introduction and adoption of these new technologies could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and monetize mobile versions of our products and services. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and monetize mobile versions of our products and services. While many of our users continue to access our products and services through personal computers, users of (and usage volumes on) mobile devices, including smartphones and tablets, continue to increase relative to those of personal computers. While we have developed mobile versions of certain of our products and services (and have developed certain products and services exclusively for mobile devices) and intend to continue to do so in the future, we may not be able to monetize these applications as effectively as we monetize our non-mobile products and services. In addition, the success of our mobile applications is dependent on their interoperability with various mobile operating systems, technologies, networks and standards that we do not control and any changes in any of these things that compromise the quality or functionality of our products and services could adversely impact usage of our products and services on mobile devices and, in turn, our ability to attract advertisers. Lastly, as the adoption of mobile devices becomes more widespread, we will need to take steps to ensure that our products and services are attractive to users of mobile devices. This shift could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations if we are unable to replace the related revenues. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personal information and other user data (including personal credit card data, as well as private content (such as videos and correspondence)) in connection with the processing of search queries, the provision of online products and services, transactions with users and customers and advertising on our websites. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are determined by the respective privacy and data security policies of our various businesses. These policies are, in turn, subject to federal, state and foreign laws and regulations, as well as evolving industry standards and practices, regarding privacy generally and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information and user data. Examples include the European Union Data Protection Directive (as adopted and implemented by the various European Union member states, the "EU Directive"), various U.S. state regulations concerning minimum data 15 Table of Contents security standards, industry self-regulating principles that have become standard practice and more stringent contractual protections (and related compliance obligations) regarding privacy and data security. In addition, if an online service provider fails to comply with its privacy policy, it could become subject to an investigation and/or proceeding for unfair or deceptive practices brought by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission under the Federal Trade Commission Act (and/or brought by a state attorney general pursuant to a similar state law), as well as a private lawsuit under various U.S. federal and state laws. Similarly, in the European Union, the online service provider could become subject to an investigation and/or proceeding for the violation of the data protection laws and regulations brought by a member state or its supervisory authority (an independent body charged with monitoring compliance with data protection laws), as well as private causes of action under the EU Directive. In general, personal information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world (particularly in the European Union), the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. U.S. and foreign legislators and regulators may enact new laws and regulations regarding privacy and data security. For example, in May 2014, the White House released a review of "big data" practices, which called for an update to U.S. privacy laws based on the proposed Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights released by the White House in February 2012 and the enactment of a federal data breach notification law. In addition, in February 2013 the U.S. Federal Trade Commission issued a report seeking changes in Internet and mobile privacy protection and disclosures. Similarly, new privacy laws and regulations at the state level, as well as new laws and directives abroad (particularly in the European Union), are being proposed and implemented. For example, legislation in the state of California that became effective on January 1, 2014 requires companies that collect personal information to disclose how they respond to web browser Do Not Track signals and the European Union is in the process of adopting new guidelines for data protection and privacy to address recent globalization and technological developments, which will supersede the EU Directive. In addition, existing privacy laws that were intended for brick-and-mortar businesses could be interpreted in a manner that would extend their reach to our businesses. New laws and regulations (or new interpretations of existing laws) in this area may make it more costly to operate our businesses and/or limit our ability to engage in certain types of activities, such as targeted advertising, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by our businesses. Also, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. In the case of security breaches involving personal credit card data, credit card companies could curtail our ability to transact payments and impose fines for failure to comply with Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards. Moreover, any such breach could decrease consumer confidence in the case of the business that experienced the breach or our businesses generally, which would decrease traffic to (and in turn, usage and transactions on) the relevant website and/or our various websites and which in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure of any of our businesses, or their various third party vendors and service providers, to comply with applicable privacy policies, federal, state or foreign privacy laws and regulations or PCI standards, as well as the unauthorized release of personal information or other user data for any reason, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our systems, infrastructures and technologies from cyber attacks. In addition, we may be adversely impacted by cyber attacks experienced by third parties. Any disruption of our systems, infrastructures and technologies, or compromise of our user data or other information, due to cyber attacks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The incidence of malicious technology-related events, such as cyber attacks, computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks or other malicious activities (or any combination of these events) is on the rise worldwide. From time to time, we may become the victim of these types of attacks. While we continuously develop and maintain systems to detect and prevent events of this nature from impacting our various businesses, these efforts are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome preventative security measures become more sophisticated. Despite our efforts, we cannot assure you that these events will not occur in the future and if they do occur, will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may become the victim of security breaches, such as the misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or accidental release or loss of user, customer or vendor data maintained in our information technology systems or those of third parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day to day operations). 16 Table of Contents Any cyber attack or security breach we experience could prevent us from providing our products and services, damage our reputation, erode our brands and/or be costly to remedy, as well as result in a degradation of our products and services and/or cause damage to our systems, infrastructures, technologies and data. Even if we do not experience such events, the impact of any such events experienced by third parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day to day operations) could have a similar effect. Moreover, even cyber attacks and security breaches that do not impact us directly may result in a loss of consumer confidence generally, which could make consumers and users less likely to use our products and services. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses resulting from any of these events. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates and even if we are able to do so, we may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses we acquire may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and we continue to seek to identify potential acquisition candidates that will allow us to apply our expertise to expand their capabilities, as well as maximize our existing assets. As a result, our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions on satisfactory pricing or other terms and we expect to continue to experience competition in connection with our acquisition-related efforts. Even if we identify what we believe to be suitable acquisition candidates and negotiate satisfactory terms, we may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions, and to the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; successfully identify and realize potential synergies among acquired and existing businesses; retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and successfully manage acquisitionrelated strain on the management, operations and financial resources of IAC and its businesses and/or acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in increased operating losses, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events and/or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in various international markets, some in which we have limited experience. As a result, we face additional risks in connection with our international operations. Also, we may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into our existing, international markets. We currently operate in various jurisdictions abroad and may continue to expand our international presence. In order for our products and services in these jurisdictions to achieve widespread acceptance, commercial use and acceptance of the Internet must continue to grow, which growth may occur at slower rates than those experienced in the United States. Moreover, we must continue to successfully tailor our products and services to the unique customs and cultures of foreign jurisdictions, which can be difficult and costly and the failure to do so could slow our international growth and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating abroad, particularly in jurisdictions where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulties in managing international operations due to distance, language and cultural differences and political and/or economic instability, including issues associated with establishing and maintaining effective management systems and infrastructures (including disclosure