Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Employees As of December 31, 2016 , we had approximately 1,800 full-time employees and approximately 3,300 part-time employees worldwide. Substantially all of our part-time employees are employed by our Non-dating businesses and perform academic tutoring, test preparation and college counseling services. Additional Information Corporate information. We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on February 12, 2009 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC"). Company website and public filings. The Company maintains a website at www.mtch.com . Neither the information on the Company's website, nor the information on the website of any Match Group business, is incorporated by reference into this annual report, or into any other filings with, or into any other information furnished or submitted to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Code of ethics. The Company's code of ethics applies to all employees (including Match Group's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) and directors and is posted on the Company's website at http://ir.mtch.com under the heading of "Corporate Governance." This code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC 7 Table of Contents Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K, and any waivers of such provisions of the code of ethics for Match Group's executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, will also be disclosed on Match Group's website. Relationship with IAC Equity ownership and vote. Match Group has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and shares of Class B common stock, with ten votes per shares and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of January 27, 2017, IAC owned 209,919,402 shares of Class B common stock representing 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock and 940,668 shares of common stock. These holdings collectively represent approximately 82.4% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 97.9% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Intercompany agreements. In connection with the initial public offering of our common stock in November 2015, we entered into certain agreements relating to our relationship with IAC after the offering. These agreements include, among others, the five agreements described below. Master transaction agreement. The master transaction agreement sets forth the agreements between us and IAC regarding the principal transactions necessary to separate our business from IAC, as well as governs certain aspects of our relationship with IAC after the completion of the offering. Investor rights agreement. Under the investor rights agreement, we are obligated to provide IAC with certain registration and other rights relating to the shares of our common stock it holds and anti-dilution rights. Tax sharing agreement. The tax sharing agreement governs our and IAC's rights, responsibilities, and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, entitlements to refunds, the preparation of tax returns, tax contests and other tax matters regarding U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes. Services agreement. The services agreement currently governs services that IAC has agreed to provide through November 24, 2017, with automatic renewal for successive one-year terms, subject to IACs continued ownership of a majority of the combined voting power of our voting stock and any subsequent extension or truncation agreed to by us and IAC. Employee matters agreement. The employee matters agreement, as amended, covers a wide range of compensation and benefit issues related to the allocation of liabilities associated with: (i) employment or termination of employment, (ii) employee benefit plans and (iii) equity awards. In the event IAC no longer retains shares representing at least 80% of the aggregate voting power of shares entitled to vote in the election of our board of directors, we will no longer participate in IACs employee benefit plans, but will establish our own employee benefit plans that will be substantially similar to the plans sponsored by IAC. Subordinated loan credit facility. The subordinated loan facility with IAC (the "IAC Subordinated Loan Facility") allows the Company to make one or more requests to IAC to borrow funds from it. If IAC agrees to fulfill any such borrowing request from the Company, such indebtedness will be incurred in accordance with the terms of the IAC Subordinated Loan Facility. At December 31, 2016 , the Company had no indebtedness outstanding under the IAC Subordinated Loan Facility. For additional information regarding these agreements, see "Note 17Related Party Transactions" to the consolidated and combined financial statements included in "Item 8Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements." 8 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: Match Group's future financial performance, Match Group's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which Match Groups businesses operate and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on Match Group management's expectations and assumptions about future events as of the date of this annual report, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect Match Groups business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of Match Group's management as of the date of this annual report. Match Group does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. Risks relating to our business The limited operating history of our newer dating brands and products makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We seek to tailor each of our dating brands and products to meet the preferences of specific communities of users. Building a given brand or product is generally an iterative process that occurs over a meaningful period of time and involves considerable resources and expenditures. Although certain of our newer brands and products have experienced significant growth over relatively short periods of time, you cannot necessarily rely on the historical growth rates of these brands and products as an indication of future growth rates for our newer brands and products generally. We have encountered, and may continue to encounter, risks and difficulties as we build our newer brands and products. The failure to successfully address these risks and difficulties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The dating industry is competitive, with low switching costs and a consistent stream of new products and entrants, and innovation by our competitors may disrupt our business. The dating industry is competitive, with a consistent stream of new products and entrants. Some of our competitors may enjoy better competitive positions in certain geographical regions or user demographics that we currently serve or may serve in the future. These advantages could enable these competitors to offer products that are more appealing to users and potential users than our products or to respond more quickly and/or cost-effectively than us to new or changing opportunities. In addition, within the dating industry generally, costs for consumers to switch between products are low, and consumers have a propensity to try new approaches to connecting with people. As a result, new products, entrants and business models are likely to continue to emerge. It is possible that a new product could gain rapid scale at the expense of existing brands through harnessing a new technology or distribution channel, creating a new approach to connecting people or some other means. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current or future competitors and products that may emerge, the size and level of engagement of our user base may decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our dating products monetizes users at different rates. If a meaningful migration of our user base from our higher monetizing dating products to our lower monetizing dating products were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We own, operate and manage a large and diverse portfolio of dating products. Each dating product has its own mix of free and paid features designed to optimize the user experience and revenue generation from that product's community of users. In general, the mix of features for the various dating products within our more established brands leads to higher monetization 9 Table of Contents rates per user than the mix of features for the various dating products within our newer brands. If a significant portion of our user base were to migrate to our less profitable brands, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. See "Item 7Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsManagement overviewTrends affecting our Dating business." Our growth and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to attract and retain users through cost-effective marketing efforts. Any failure in these efforts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attracting and retaining users for our dating products involve considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing. Historically, we have had to increase our marketing expenditures over time in order to attract and retain users and sustain our growth. Evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities. For example, as traditional television viewership declines and as consumers spend more time on mobile devices rather than desktop computers, the reach of many of our traditional advertising channels is contracting. Similarly, as consumers communicate less via email and more via text messaging and other virtual means, the reach of email campaigns designed to attract new and repeat users (and retain current users) for our dating products is adversely impacted. To continue to reach potential users and grow our businesses, we must identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer advertising channels, such as mobile and online video platforms, as well as targeted campaigns in which we communicate directly with potential, former and current users via new virtual means. Generally, the opportunities in and sophistication of newer advertising channels are relatively undeveloped and unproven, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage and fine-tune our marketing efforts in response to these and other trends in the advertising industry. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Communicating with our users via email is critical to our success, and any erosion in our ability to communicate in this fashion that is not sufficiently replaced by other means could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of our primary means of communicating with our users and keeping them engaged with our products is via email. Our ability to communicate via email enables us to keep our users updated on activity with respect to their profile, present or suggest new or interesting users from the community, invite users to offline events and present discount and free trial offers, among other things. As consumer habits evolve in the era of smart phones and messaging/social networking apps, usage of email, particularly among our younger users, has declined. In addition, deliverability and other restrictions imposed by third party email providers and/or applicable law could limit or prevent our ability to send emails to our users. A continued and significant erosion in our ability to communicate successfully with our users via email could have an adverse impact on user experience, levels of user engagement and the rate at which non-paying users become paid members. While we continually work to find new means of communicating and connecting with our members (for example, through push notifications), there is no assurance that such alternative means of communication will be as effective as email has been. Any failure to develop or take advantage of new means of communication could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in various international markets, primarily in various jurisdictions within the European Union, and as result are exposed to foreign exchange risk for both the Euro and British Pound ("GBP"). During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, 37% and 32% of our total revenues, respectively, were international revenues. We translate international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results and during periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our international revenues will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results affects the period-over-period comparability of such results. Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange risk relates to investments in foreign subsidiaries that transact business in a functional currency other than the U.S. Dollar, primarily the Euro. Since the average Euro versus the U.S. dollar exchange rate in 2016 was essentially flat compared to 2015, the translation of our international results into U.S. dollars did not significantly reduce our revenue nor did it have a significant effect on the period-over-period comparability of our U.S dollar- 10 Table of Contents denominated operating results for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 versus December 31, 2015. To the extent that the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen relative to the Euro, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollars will reduce our U.S. dollar-denominated operating results and will affect their period-over-period comparability. Fluctuating foreign exchange rates can also result in foreign currency exchange gains and losses. While foreign currency exchange gains and losses historically have not been material to the Company, the significant decline in the GBP due to the Brexit vote on June 23, 2016 generated significant foreign currency exchange gains during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. See "