Item 7- Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8- Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Employees As of December 31, 2015, we had approximately 1,500 full-time employees and approximately 3,300 part-time employees worldwide. Substantially all of our part-time employees are employed by our Non-dating businesses and perform academic tutoring, test preparation and college counseling services. We are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and believe that our relationship with our employees is good. 7 Additional Information Corporate information. We were incorporated in the State of Delaware on February 12, 2009 as a wholly-owned subsidiary of IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC"). Company website and public filings. The Company maintains a website at www.matchgroupinc.com . Neither the information on the Company's website, nor the information on the website of any Match Group business, is incorporated by reference into this annual report, or into any other filings with, or into any other information furnished or submitted to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Code of ethics. The Company's code of ethics applies to all employees (including Match Group's principal executive officers (its Chairman and Chief Executive Officer), principal financial officer (its Chief Financial Officer) and principal accounting officer (its Vice President and Principal Accounting Officer)) and directors and is posted on the Company's website at http://ir.mtch.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=254224&p=irol-govHighlights. This code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of RegulationS-K, and any waivers of such provisions of the code of ethics for Match Group's executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, will also be disclosed on Match Group's website. Relationship with IAC Equity ownership and vote. Match Group has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and shares of Class B common stock, with ten votes per shares and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of January 29, 2016, IAC owned 209,919,402 shares of Class B common stock representing 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock, approximately 84.5% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 98.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock Intercompany agreements. In connection with the initial public offering of our common stock in November 2015, we entered into certain agreements relating to our relationship with IAC after the offering. These agreements include, among others, the five agreements described below. Master transaction agreement. The master transaction agreement sets forth the agreements between us and IAC regarding the principal transactions necessary to separate our business from IAC, as well as governs certain aspects of our relationship with IAC after the completion of the offering. Investor rights agreement. Under the investor rights agreement, we are obligated to provide IAC with certain registration and other rights relating to the shares of our common stock it holds and anti-dilution rights. Tax sharing agreement. The tax sharing agreement governs our and IAC's rights, responsibilities, and obligations with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, entitlements to refunds, the preparation of tax returns, tax contests and other tax matters regarding U.S. federal, state, local and foreign income taxes. Services agreement. The services agreement governs services IAC will provide through November 24, 2016 (one year from the date of the completion of the offering), with automatic renewal, subject to IACs continued ownership of a majority of the combined voting power of our voting stock and any subsequent extension or truncation agreed to by us and IAC. Employee matters agreement. The employee matters agreement covers a wide range of compensation and benefit issues related to the allocation of liabilities associated with: (i) employment or termination of employment, (ii) employee benefit plans and (iii) equity awards. In the event IAC no longer retains shares representing at least 80% of the aggregate voting power of shares entitled to vote in the election of our board of directors, we will no longer participate in IACs employee benefit plans, but will establish our own employee benefit plans that will be substantially similar to the plans sponsored by IAC. For additional information regarding these agreements, see "Item 8- Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements-Note 17." Item 1A. Risk Factors 8 Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: Match Group's future financial performance, Match Group's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which Match Groups businesses operate and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on Match Group management's expectations and assumptions about future events as of the date of this annual report, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect Match Groups business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of Match Group's management as of the date of this annual report. Match Group does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. Risks relating to our business The limited operating history of our newer dating brands and products makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We seek to tailor each of our dating brands and products to meet the preferences of specific communities of users. Building a given brand or product is generally an iterative process that occurs over a meaningful period of time and involves considerable resources and expenditures. Although certain of our newer brands and products have experienced significant growth over relatively short periods of time, you cannot necessarily rely on the historical growth rates of these brands and products as an indication of future growth rates for our newer brands and products generally. We have encountered, and may continue to encounter, risks and difficulties as we build our newer brands and products. The failure to successfully address these risks and difficulties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The dating industry is competitive, with low switching costs and a consistent stream of new products and entrants, and innovation by our competitors may disrupt our business. The dating industry is competitive, with a consistent stream of new products and entrants. Some of our competitors may enjoy better competitive positions in certain geographical regions or user demographics that we currently serve or may serve in the future. These advantages could enable these competitors to offer products that are more appealing to users and potential users than our products or to respond more quickly and/or cost-effectively than us to new or changing opportunities. In addition, within the dating industry generally, costs for consumers to switch between products are low, and consumers have a propensity to try new approaches to connecting with people. As a result, new products, entrants and business models are likely to continue to emerge. It is possible that a new product could gain rapid scale at the expense of existing brands through harnessing a new technology or distribution channel, creating a new approach to connecting people or some other means. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current or future competitors and products that may emerge, the size and level of engagement of our user base may decrease, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our dating products monetizes users at different rates. If a meaningful migration of our user base from our higher monetizing dating products to our lower monetizing dating products were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We own, operate and manage a large and diverse portfolio of dating products. Each dating product has its own mix of free and paid features designed to optimize the user experience and revenue generation from that product's community of users. In general, the mix of features for the various dating products within our more established brands leads to higher monetization rates per user than the mix of features for the various dating products within our newer brands. If a significant portion of our 9 Table of Contents user base were to migrate to our less profitable brands, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. See "Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsTrends affecting our Dating business." Our growth and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to attract and retain users through cost-effective marketing efforts. Any failure in these efforts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attracting and retaining users for our dating products involve considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing. Historically, we have had to increase our marketing expenditures over time in order to attract and retain users and sustain our growth. Evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities. For example, as traditional television viewership declines and as consumers spend more time on mobile devices rather than desktop computers, the reach of many of our traditional advertising channels is contracting. Similarly, as consumers communicate less via email and more via text messaging and other virtual means, the reach of email campaigns designed to attract new and repeat users (and retain current users) for our dating products is adversely impacted. To continue to reach potential users and grow our businesses, we must identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer advertising channels, such as mobile and online video platforms, as well as targeted campaigns in which we communicate directly with potential, former and current users via new virtual means. Generally, the opportunities in and sophistication of newer advertising channels are relatively undeveloped and unproven, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage and fine-tune our marketing efforts in response to these and other trends in the advertising industry. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Communicating with our users via email is critical to our success, and any erosion in our ability to communicate in this fashion that is not sufficiently replaced by other means could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As consumer habits evolve in the era of smart phones and messaging/social networking apps, usage of email, particularly among our younger users, has declined. In addition, deliverability restrictions imposed by third party email providers could limit or prevent our ability to send emails to our users. One of our primary means of communicating with our users and keeping them engaged with our products is via email. Our ability to communicate via email enables us to keep our users updated on activity with respect to their profile, present or suggest new or interesting users from the community, invite them to offline events and present discount and free trial offers, among other things. Any erosion in our ability to communicate successfully with our users via email could have an adverse impact on user experience and the rate at which non-paying users become paid members. While we continually work to find new means of communicating and connecting with our members (for example, through push notifications), there is no assurance that such alternative means of communication will be as effective as email has been. Any failure to develop or take advantage of new means of communication could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our quarterly results or operating metrics could fluctuate significantly, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly results and operating metrics have fluctuated historically and we expect that they could continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict, including: the timing, size and effectiveness of our marketing efforts; fluctuations in the rate at which we attract new users, the level of engagement of such users and the propensity of such users to subscribe to our brands or to purchase la carte features; increases or decreases in our revenues and expenses caused by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the timing, size and effectiveness of non-marketing operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; 10 Table of Contents the performance, reliability and availability of our technology, network systems and infrastructure and data centers; operational and financial risks we may experience in connection with historical and potential future acquisitions; and general economic conditions in either domestic or international markets. The occurrence of any one of these factors, as well as other factors, or the cumulative effect of the occurrence of one or more of such factors could cause our quarterly results and operating metrics to fluctuate significantly. As a result, quarterly comparisons of results and operating metrics may not be meaningful. In addition, the variability and unpredictability of our quarterly results or operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations, or those of any of our investors or of analysts that cover our company, with respect to revenues or other operating results for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could fall substantially. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in various international markets, primarily in various jurisdictions within the European Union. During the fiscal fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 32% and 35% of our total revenues, respectively, were international revenues. Our primary exposure to foreign currency exchange risk relates to investments in foreign subsidiaries that transact business in a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Euro. As foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, the translation of our international results into U.S. dollars affects the period-over-period comparability of our U.S dollar-denominated operating results. For example, the average Euro to U.S. dollar exchange rate was 16% lower in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 than it was in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, which significantly reduced our revenue. Our total revenue, Dating revenue and International Dating revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, as compared to the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, would have increased approximately 20%, 15% and 21%, respectively, as compared to the reported increases of 15%, 9% and 3%, respectively, had foreign currency exchange rates remained constant during such period. Historically, we have not hedged any foreign currency exposures. The continued growth and expansion of our international operations into new countries increases our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. These fluctuations could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. Distribution and use of our dating products depends, in significant part, on a variety of third party publishers, platforms and mobile app stores. If these third parties limit, prohibit or otherwise interfere with the distribution or use of our dating products in any material way, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We market and distribute our dating products (including related mobile applications) through a variety of third party publishers and distribution channels. Our ability to market our brands on any given property or channel is subject to the policies of the relevant third party. Certain publishers and channels have, from time to time, limited or prohibited advertisements for dating products for a variety of reasons, including as a result of poor behavior by other industry participants. There is no assurance that we will not be limited or prohibited from using certain current or prospective marketing channels in the future. If this were to happen in the case of a significant marketing channel and/or for a significant period of time, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, our mobile applications are increasingly accessed through the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store. Both Apple and Google have broad discretion to change their respective terms and conditions applicable to the distribution of our applications, and to interpret their respective terms and conditions in ways that may limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with our ability to distribute our applications through their stores. There is no assurance that Apple or Google will not limit or eliminate or otherwise interfere with the distribution of our applications. If either or both of them did so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Lastly, in the case of Tinder, users currently register for (and log in to) the application exclusively through their Facebook profiles. Facebook has broad discretion to change its terms and conditions applicable to the use of its platform in this manner and to interpret its terms and conditions in ways that could limit, eliminate or otherwise interfere with our ability to use 11 Table of Contents Facebook in this manner and if Facebook did so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As the distribution of our dating products through app stores increases, in order to maintain our profit margins, we may need to offset increasing app store fees by decreasing traditional marketing expenditures, increasing user volume or monetization per user or by engaging in other efforts to increase revenue or decrease costs generally, or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As our user base continues to shift to mobile solutions, we increasingly rely on the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store to distribute our mobile applications and related in-app products. While our mobile applications are generally free to download from these stores, we offer our users the opportunity to purchase paid memberships and certain la carte features through these applications. We determine the prices at which these memberships and features are sold and, in exchange for facilitating the purchase of these memberships and features through these applications to users who download our applications from these stores, we pay Apple and Google, as applicable, a share (currently 30%) of the revenue we receive from these transactions. As the distribution of our dating products through app stores increases, we may need to offset these increased app store fees by decreasing traditional marketing expenditures as a percentage of revenue, increasing user volume or monetization per user, or by engaging in other efforts to increase revenue or decrease costs generally, or our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructures and on our ability to enhance, expand and adapt these systems and infrastructures in a timely and cost-effective manner. In order for us to succeed, our systems and infrastructures must perform well on a consistent basis. From time to time, we may experience system interruptions that make some or all of our systems or data unavailable and prevent our products from functioning properly for our users; any such interruption could arise for any number of reasons. Further, our systems and infrastructures are vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. While we have backup systems in place for certain aspects of our operations, our systems and infrastructures are not fully redundant, disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities and our property and business interruption insurance coverage may not be adequate to compensate us fully for any losses that we may suffer. Any interruptions or outages, regardless of the cause, could negatively impact our users' experiences with our products, tarnish our brands' reputation and decrease demand for our products, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also continually work to expand and enhance the efficiency and scalability of our technology and network systems to improve the experience of our users, accommodate substantial increases in the volume of traffic to our various dating products and to keep up with changes in technology and user preference. Any failure to do so in a timely and cost-effective manner could adversely affect our users' experience with our various products and thereby negatively impact the demand for our products, and could increase our costs, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently undertaking a significant and complex update to the technology relating to some of our businesses, and failure to complete this project in a timely and effective manner could adversely affect our business. We are currently in the process of an ongoing consolidation and streamlining of the technology and network systems and infrastructures of a number of our businesses, including Match, OurTime and Meetic. The goal of this project is to modernize, optimize and improve the scalability and cost-effectiveness of these systems and infrastructures and to increase our ability to deploy product changes more rapidly across devices and product lines. We have budgeted significant human and financial resources for these efforts and if we experience delays, inefficiencies or operational failures, we will incur additional costs, which would adversely affect our profitability. Moreover, these efforts may not be successful generally, may not be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner, may not result in the cost savings or other benefits we anticipate and may disrupt operations, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our systems and infrastructures from cyber attacks and may be adversely affected by cyber attacks experienced by third parties. We are regularly under attack by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious technology-related events, such as cyber attacks, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, distributed denial of service attacks and attempts 12 Table of Contents to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information. While we have invested heavily in the protection of our systems and infrastructures and in related training, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent significant breaches in our systems or other such events from occurring. Any cyber or similar attack we are unable to protect ourselves against could damage our systems and infrastructure, prevent us from providing our products, erode our reputation and brands, result in the disclosure of confidential information of our users and/or be costly to remedy. The impact of cyber security events experienced by third parties with whom we do business (or upon whom we otherwise rely in connection with our day-to day operations) could have a similar effect on us. Moreover, even cyber or similar attacks that do not directly affect us or third parties with whom we do business may result in a loss of consumer confidence generally, which could make users less likely to use or continue to use our products. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of third party systems and infrastructures. We rely on third parties, primarily data center service providers, as well as third party computer systems, broadband and other communications systems and service providers, in connection with the provision of our products generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with our users. We have no control over any of these third parties or their operations. Problems experienced by third party data center service providers upon whom we rely, the telecommunications network providers with whom they contract or with the systems through which telecommunications providers allocate capacity among their customers could also adversely affect us. Any changes in service levels at our data centers or any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems or those of our third party providers, or deterioration in the performance of these systems, could impair our ability to provide our products or process transactions with our users, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the security of personal and confidential user information that we maintain and store is breached or otherwise accessed by unauthorized persons, it may be costly to mitigate the impact of such an event and our reputation could be harmed. We receive, process, store and transmit a significant amount of personal user and other confidential information, including credit card information, and enable our users to share their personal information with each other. In some cases, we retain third party vendors to store this information. We continuously develop and maintain systems to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of this information, but cannot guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. If any such event were to occur, we may not be able to remedy the event, and we may have to expend significant capital and resources to mitigate the impact of such an event, and to develop and implement protections to prevent future events of this nature from occurring. If a breach of our security (or the security of our vendors and partners) occurs, the perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and our reputation may be harmed, we could lose current and potential users and the recognition of our various brands and their competitive positions could be diminished, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized access of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. Security breaches or other unauthorized access to, or the use or transmission of, personal user information could result in a variety of claims against us, including privacy-related claims. There are numerous laws in the countries in which we operate regarding privacy and the storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of this kind of information, the scope of which are changing, inconsistent and conflicting and subject to differing interpretations. For example, the European Commission has proposed and is currently debating comprehensive privacy and data protection reforms in the European Union, certain developing countries in which we do business are currently considering adopting privacy and data protection laws and regulations, and legislative proposals concerning privacy and the protection of user information are often pending before the U.S. Congress and various U.S. state legislatures. While we believe that we comply with industry standards and applicable laws and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection, there is no assurance that we will not be subject to claims that we have violated applicable laws or codes of conduct or that we will be able to successfully defend against such claims. 13 Table of Contents Any failure or perceived failure by us (or the third parties with whom we have contracted to store such information) to comply with applicable privacy laws, privacy policies or privacy-related contractual obligations or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access to personal information may result in governmental enforcement actions, significant fines, litigation, claims of breach of contract and indemnity by third parties and adverse publicity. In the case of such an event, our reputation may be harmed, we could lose current and potential users and the competitive positions of our various brands could be diminished, any or all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments, including data security breaches and fraud that we or third parties experience or additional regulation, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We accept payment from our users primarily through credit card transactions and certain online payment service providers. The ability to access credit card information on a real time-basis without having to proactively reach out to the consumer each time we process an auto-renewal payment or a payment for the purchase of a premium feature on any of our dating products is critical to our success. When we or a third party experiences a data security breach involving credit card information, affected cardholders will often cancel their credit cards. In the case of a breach experienced by a third party, the more sizable the third party's customer base and the greater the number of credit card accounts impacted, the more likely it is that our users would be impacted by such a breach. To the extent our users are ever affected by such a breach experienced by us or a third party, affected users would need to be contacted to obtain new credit card information and process any pending transactions. It is likely that we would not be able to reach all affected users, and even if we could, some users' new credit card information may not be obtained and some pending transactions may not be processed, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if our users are not directly impacted by a given data security breach, they may lose confidence in the ability of service providers to protect their personal information generally, which could cause them to stop using their credit cards online and choose alternative payment methods that are not as convenient for us or restrict our ability to process payments without significant user effort. Additionally, if we fail to adequately prevent fraudulent credit card transactions, we may face fines, governmental enforcement action, civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures, significantly higher credit card-related costs and substantial remediation costs, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, the passage or adoption of any legislation or regulation affecting the ability of service providers to periodically charge consumers for recurring membership payments may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Inappropriate actions by certain of our users could be attributed to us and damage our brands' reputation, which in turn could adversely affect our business. The reputation of our brands may be adversely affected by the actions of our users that are deemed to be hostile, offensive, defamatory, inappropriate or unlawful. While we monitor and review the appropriateness of the content accessible through our dating products and have adopted policies regarding illegal or offensive use of our dating products, our users could nonetheless engage in activities that violate our policies. These safeguards may not be sufficient to avoid harm to our reputation and brands, especially if such hostile, offensive or inappropriate use is well-publicized. In addition, it is possible that a user of our products could be physically, financially, emotionally or otherwise harmed by an individual that such user met through the use of one of our products. If one or more of our users suffers or alleges to have suffered any such harm, we could experience negative publicity or legal action that could damage our reputation and our brands. Similar events affecting users of our competitors' dating products could result in negative publicity for the dating industry generally, which could in turn negatively affect our business. Concerns about such harms and the use of dating products and social networking platforms for illegal conduct, such as romance scams and financial fraud, could produce future legislation or other governmental action that could require changes to our dating products, restrict or impose additional costs upon the conduct of our business generally or cause users to abandon our dating products. 14 Table of Contents We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We rely heavily upon our trademarks and related domain names and logos to market our brands and to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition, as well as upon trade secrets. We also rely, to a lesser extent, upon patented and patent-pending proprietary technologies relating to matching process systems and related features and products. We also rely on a combination of laws, and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others, to establish and protect our various intellectual property rights. For example, we have generally registered and continue to apply to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register and renew domain names as we deem appropriate. Effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which our products are made available and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. We also generally seek to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections as and if we deem appropriate, based on then-current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future. No assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed or will file will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against competitors and similar technologies. In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents we own. Despite these measures, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise or third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our brands and limit our ability to market our brands using our various domain names, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in various international markets, including certain markets in which we have limited experience. As a result, we face additional risks in connection with certain of our international operations. Our brands are available in over 190 countries. Our international revenue represented 32% and 35% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Operating internationally, particularly in countries in which we have limited experience, exposes us to a number of additional risks, including: operational and compliance challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; differing levels of social and technological acceptance of our dating products or lack of acceptance of them generally; foreign currency fluctuations; restrictions on the transfer of funds among countries and back to the United States and costs associated with repatriating funds to the United States; differing and potentially adverse tax laws; multiple, conflicting and changing laws, rules and regulations, and difficulties understanding and ensuring compliance with those laws by both our employees and our business partners, over whom we exert no control; competitive environments that favor local businesses; 15 Table of Contents limitations on the level of intellectual property protection; and trade sanctions, political unrest, terrorism, war and epidemics or the threat of any of these events. The occurrence of any or all of the events described above could adversely affect our international operations, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and we continue to seek potential acquisition candidates. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with historical and future acquisitions if we are unable to: properly value prospective acquisitions, especially those with limited operating histories; successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; successfully identify and realize potential synergies among acquired and existing businesses; retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and successfully manage acquisition-related strain on our management, operations and financial resources and those of the various brands in our portfolio. Furthermore, we may not be successful in addressing other challenges encountered in connection with our acquisitions. The anticipated benefits of one or more of our acquisitions may not be realized or the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We will incur some increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company. The obligations of being a public company, including public reporting and investor relations obligations, require (and will continue to require) new expenditures, place new demands on our management and will require the hiring of additional personnel. While IAC has provided (and will continue to provide) us with certain corporate and shared services related to corporate functions for a period of time for negotiated fees, we also expect that we will need to implement additional systems and hire additional personnel to adequately function as a public company. We cannot precisely predict the amount and timing of these significant expenditures. See "Risks related to our ongoing relationship with IACThe services that IAC provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, and we may have difficulty finding replacement services or be required to pay increased costs to replace these services if we no longer receive these services from IAC." We may not realize the potential benefits from our initial public offering. We may not realize the benefits that we anticipate from our initial public offering. These benefits include the following: enabling us to allocate our capital more efficiently; providing us with direct access to the debt and equity capital markets; improving our ability to pursue acquisitions through the use of shares of our common stock as consideration; and enhancing our market recognition with investors. We may not achieve the anticipated benefits from our initial public offering for a variety of reasons. For example, the process of operating as an independent public company may distract our management from focusing on our business and strategic priorities. In addition, although we will have direct access to the debt and equity capital markets following this offering, we may not be able to issue debt or equity on terms acceptable to us or at all. The availability of tradable shares of our common stock for use as consideration for acquisitions also will not ensure that we will be able to successfully pursue acquisitions or that the acquisitions will be successful. We also may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from our initial 16 Table of Contents public offering if any of the matters identified as risks in this "Risk factors" section were to occur. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits from our initial public offering for any reason, our business may be adversely affected. We are subject to litigation and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We are, and from time to time may become, subject to litigation and various legal proceedings, including litigation and proceedings related to intellectual property matters, privacy and consumer protection laws, as well as stockholder derivative suits, class action lawsuits and other matters, that involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief or that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. For example, as discussed in Item 3-Legal Proceedings, we were recently named, among other defendants, in purported class action lawsuits on behalf of purchasers of shares of our common stock in our initial public offering and thereafter. The defense of these actions may be both time consuming and expensive. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we may establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as and when required or appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on information available to management at the time of such assessment or estimation and involve a significant amount of judgment. As a result, actual outcomes or losses could differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. Our failure to successfully defend or settle any of these litigations or legal proceedings could result in liability that, to the extent not covered by our insurance, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks related to our ongoing relationship with IAC IAC controls our company and will have the ability to control the direction of our business. As of the January 29, 2016, IAC owned all of the shares of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 84.5% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 98.2 % of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As long as IAC owns shares of our capital stock representing a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, it will be able to control any corporate action that requires a stockholder vote, regardless of the vote of any other stockholder. As a result, IAC will have the ability to control significant corporate activities, including: the election of our board of directors and, through our board of directors, decision-making with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of our officers; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets, mergers or other business combinations; issuances of shares of our common stock, Class B common stock, Class C common stock and our capital structure; corporate opportunities that may be suitable for us and IAC, subject to the corporate opportunity provisions in our certificate of incorporation, as described below; our financing activities, including the issuance of additional debt and equity securities, or the incurrence of other indebtedness generally; the payment of dividends; and the number of shares available for issuance under our equity incentive plans for our prospective and existing employees. This voting control will limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that stockholders other than IAC do not view as beneficial. This voting control may also discourage transactions involving a change of control of our company, including transactions in which you as a holder of our common stock might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. Furthermore, from and after May 17, 2016, IAC generally has the right at any time to sell or otherwise dispose of the shares of our capital stock that it owns, including the ability to transfer a controlling interest in us to a third party, without the approval of the holders of our common stock and without providing for the purchase of shares of common stock. Even if IAC owns shares of our capital stock representing less than a majority of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock, so long as IAC retains shares representing a significant percentage of our combined voting power, IAC will have the ability to substantially influence these significant corporate activities. In addition, pursuant to an investor rights agreement between us and IAC, IAC has the right to maintain its level of ownership in us to the extent we issue additional shares of our capital stock in the future and, pursuant to an employee matters 17 Table of Contents agreement between us and IAC, IAC may receive payment for certain compensation expenses through the receipt of additional shares of our capital stock. For a more complete summary of our agreements with IAC, see "Item 8- Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements-Note 17." Until such time as IAC no longer controls or has the ability to substantially influence us, we will continue to face the risks described in this "Risk factors" section relating to IAC's control of us and the potential conflicts of interest between IAC and us. Our certificate of incorporation could prevent us from benefiting from corporate opportunities that might otherwise have been available to us. Our certificate of incorporation has a "corporate opportunity" provision in which we renounce any interests or expectancy in corporate opportunities which become known to: (i) any of our directors or officers who are also officers, directors, employees or other affiliates of IAC or its affiliates (except that we and our subsidiaries shall not be deemed affiliates of IAC or its affiliates for the purposes of the provision) or (ii) IAC itself, and which relate to the business of IAC or may constitute a corporate opportunity for both IAC and us. Generally, neither IAC nor our officers or directors who are also officers or directors of IAC or its affiliates will be liable to us or our stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such person pursues or acquires any corporate opportunity for the account of IAC or its affiliates, directs or transfers such corporate opportunity to IAC or its affiliates, or does not communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to us. The corporate opportunity provision may exacerbate conflicts of interest between IAC and us because the provision effectively permits any of our directors or officers who also serves as an officer or director of IAC to choose to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of to us. IAC's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of our stockholders. Conflicts of interest between IAC and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our public stockholders. Various conflicts of interest between us and IAC could arise. As of the date of this report, four of our ten directors are current members of the board of directors or executive officers of IAC. Ownership interests of directors or officers of IAC in our stock and ownership interests of our directors and officers in the stock of IAC, or a person's service as either a director or officer of both companies, could create or appear to create potential conflicts of interest when those directors and officers are faced with decisions relating to our company. These decisions could include: corporate opportunities; the impact that operating decisions for our business may have on IAC's consolidated financial statements; the impact that operating or capital decisions (including the incurrence of indebtedness) for our business may have on IAC's current or future indebtedness or the covenants under that indebtedness; business combinations involving us; our dividend policy; management stock ownership; and the intercompany services and agreements between IAC and us. Potential conflicts of interest could also arise if we decide to enter into any new commercial arrangements with IAC in the future or in connection with IAC's desire to enter into new commercial arrangements with third parties. Furthermore, disputes may arise between IAC and us relating to our past and ongoing relationships, and these potential conflicts of interest may make it more difficult for us to favorably resolve such disputes, including those related to: tax, employee benefit, indemnification and other matters arising from this offering; the nature, quality and pricing of services IAC agrees to provide to us; sales or other disposal by IAC of all or a portion of its ownership interest in us; and business combinations involving us. 18 Table of Contents We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated party. While we are controlled by IAC, we may not have the leverage to negotiate amendments to these agreements, if required, on terms as favorable to us as those we would negotiate with an unaffiliated third party. Our historical combined financial information may not be representative of the results we would have achieved as a public company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. The historical combined financial information that we have included in this annual report may not necessarily reflect what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows would have been had we been a public company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future. Our combined financial statements reflect the historical financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our various businesses since their respective dates of acquisition by IAC and the allocation to us by IAC of expenses for certain functions based on various methodologies. We have not adjusted our historical combined financial information to reflect changes that have occurred (or will occur) in our cost structure, financing and operations as a result of our recent transition to a public company, including anticipated increased costs associated with public company reporting and other obligations. Accordingly, our historical combined financial information may not necessarily be indicative of what our financial position, results of operations or cash flows will be in the future. We are a "controlled company" as defined in the NASDAQ rules, and rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements that provide protection to stockholders of other companies. As a result of IAC owning more than 50% of the combined voting power of our share capital, we are a "controlled company" under the Marketplace Rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market, or the Marketplace Rules. As a "controlled company," certain exemptions under the NASDAQ standards free us from the obligation to comply with certain Marketplace Rules related to corporate governance, including the requirements: that a majority of our board of directors consists of "independent directors," as defined under the Marketplace Rules; and that we have a nominating/governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee's purpose and responsibilities. Accordingly, for so long as we are a "controlled company," our stockholders will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Marketplace Rules. In order to preserve the ability of IAC to distribute its shares of our capital stock on a tax-free basis, we may be prevented from pursuing opportunities to raise capital, to effectuate acquisitions or to provide equity incentives to our employees, which could hurt our ability to grow. Under current laws, IAC must retain beneficial ownership of at least 80% of our combined voting power and 80% of each class of our nonvoting capital stock (if any is outstanding) in order to effect a tax-free distribution of our shares held by IAC to its stockholders. As of the date of this annual report, IAC has advised us that it does not have any present intention or plans to undertake such a tax-free distribution. However, IAC does currently intend to use its majority voting interest to retain its ability to engage in such a transaction. This intention may cause IAC to not support transactions we wish to pursue that involve issuing shares of our common stock, including for capital raising purposes, as consideration for an acquisition or as equity incentives to our employees. The inability to pursue such transactions, if it occurs, may adversely affect our company. See "IAC controls our company and will have the ability to control the direction of our business" and "IAC's interests may conflict with our interests and the interests of our stockholders. Conflicts of interest between IAC and us could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us and our public stockholders." Our agreements with IAC will require us to indemnify IAC for certain tax liabilities and may limit our ability to engage in desirable strategic or capital raising transactions, including following any distribution by IAC of our capital stock to its stockholders. Under a tax sharing agreement between us and IAC, we generally will be responsible and will be required to indemnify IAC for: (i) all taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary tax return of IAC or one of its subsidiaries that includes us or any of our subsidiaries to the extent attributable to us or any of our subsidiaries, as determined under the tax 19 Table of Contents sharing agreement, and (ii) all taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined, unitary or separate tax returns of us or any of our subsidiaries. To the extent IAC failed to pay taxes imposed with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary tax return of IAC or one of its subsidiaries that includes us or any of our subsidiaries, the relevant taxing authority could seek to collect such taxes (including taxes for which IAC is responsible under the tax sharing agreement) from us or our subsidiaries. Under the tax sharing agreement, we generally will be responsible for any taxes and related amounts imposed on IAC or us that arise from the failure of a future spin-off of IAC's interest in us to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Section 368(a)(1)(D) and/or Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, to the extent that the failure to so qualify is attributable to: (i) a breach of the relevant representations and covenants made by us in the tax sharing agreement or any representation letter provided in support of any tax opinion or ruling obtained by IAC with respect to the U.S. federal income tax treatment of such spin-off, or (ii) an acquisition of our equity securities. To preserve the tax-free treatment of any potential future spin-off by IAC of its interest in us, and in addition to our indemnity obligation described above, the tax sharing agreement will restrict us, for the two-year period following any such spin-off, except in specific circumstances, from: (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of shares of our stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds, (iii) repurchasing our shares other than in certain open-market transactions, (iv) ceasing to actively conduct our businesses or (v) taking or failing to take any other action that prevents the distribution and related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Section 368(a)(1)(D) and/or Section 355 of the Code. These indemnity obligations and other limitations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a more complete description of the tax sharing agreement, see "Item 1- Business-Relationship with IAC." Future sales or distributions of our shares by IAC could depress our common stock price. From and after May 17, 2016, IAC will have the right to sell or distribute to its stockholders all or a portion of our Class B common stock that it holds. As of the date of this annual report, IAC has advised us that it does not have any present intention or plans to undertake such a sale or distribution; however, any sales by IAC in the public market or distributions to its stockholders of substantial amounts of our stock in the form of common stock or Class B common stock, or the filing by IAC of a registration statement relating to a substantial amount of our stock, could depress the price of our common stock. In addition, IAC has the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of its shares or to include its shares in other registration statements that we may file. In the event IAC exercises its registration rights and sells all or a portion of its shares of our capital stock, the price of our common stock could decline. See "Item 1-Business-Relationship with IAC" and "Item 8- Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements-Note 17." The services that IAC provides to us may not be sufficient to meet our needs, which may result in increased costs and otherwise adversely affect our business. IAC currently provides (and is expected to continue to provide) us with significant corporate and shared services related to corporate functions, such as executive oversight, risk management, information technology, accounting, audit, legal, investor relations, tax, treasury and other services, for a fee provided in the services agreement described in Item 1-Business-Relationship with IAC." IAC is not obligated to provide these services in a manner that differs from the nature of the service when we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of IAC, and thus we may not be able to modify these services in a manner desirable to us as a standalone public company. Further, if we no longer receive these services from IAC, we may not be able to perform these services ourselves, or find appropriate thirdparty arrangements at a reasonable cost, and the cost may be higher than that charged by IAC. Risks related to our indebtedness Our indebtedness may affect our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness. 20 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2015, we had total debt outstanding of approximately $1.245 billion ($40 million of which matures in the current year) and borrowing availability of $500.0 million under the Match Group Credit Facility. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, such as: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or other debt service requirements or for other purposes; limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service debt; limiting our ability to compete with other companies who are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties or exploiting business opportunities; restricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our and certain of our subsidiaries' existing and future indebtedness, including, in the case of certain indebtedness of subsidiaries, certain covenants that restrict the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; exposing us to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under financial and operating covenants contained in our or our subsidiaries' debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results; increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or in pricing of our products; and limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in our industry and in our customers' industries. In addition to our debt service obligations, our operations require substantial investments on a continuing basis. Our ability to make scheduled debt payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and to fund capital and non-capital expenditures necessary to maintain the condition of our operating assets and properties, as well as to provide capacity for the growth of our business, depends on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legal and other factors. Subject to the restrictions in the Match Group Credit Agreement and the restrictions included in the indenture related to the Match Group Senior Notes, we and our subsidiaries may incur significant additional indebtedness, including additional secured indebtedness. Although the terms of the Match Group Credit Agreement and the indenture related to the Match Group Senior Notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be significant. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries' current debt levels, the risks described above could increase. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our current and planned indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness that may not be successful. Our ability to satisfy our debt obligations will depend upon, among other things: our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control; and our future ability to borrow under the Match Group Credit Facility, the availability of which will depend on, among other things, our complying with the covenants in the then-existing agreements governing our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that we will be able to draw under the Match Group Credit Facility or otherwise, in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further 21 Table of Contents restrict our business operations. In addition, the terms of existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations, sell equity, and/or negotiate with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt, in order to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions for fair market value or at all. The Match Group Credit Agreement and the indenture related to the Match Group Senior Notes may restrict, or market or business conditions may limit, our ability to avail ourselves of some or all of these options. Furthermore, any proceeds that we could realize from any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. The Match Group Credit Agreement and the indenture related to the Match Group Senior Notes contain, and any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of covenants that will impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: create liens on certain assets; incur additional debt; make certain investments and acquisitions; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; sell certain assets; pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our capital stock or make restricted payments; enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and place restrictions on distributions from subsidiaries. Any of these restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions and could otherwise restrict corporate activities. Any failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under the Match Group Credit Agreement and/or the indenture related to the Match Group Senior Notes or any instruments governing future indebtedness of ours. Upon a default, unless waived, the lenders under the Match Group Credit Agreement could elect to terminate their commitments, cease making further loans, foreclose on our assets pledged to such lenders to secure our obligations under the Match Group Credit Agreement and force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. Holders of the Match Group Senior Notes also have the ability to force us into bankruptcy or liquidation in certain circumstances, subject to the terms of the related indenture. In addition, a default under the Match Group Credit Agreement or the indenture related to the Match Group Senior Notes may trigger a cross default under our other agreements and could trigger a cross default under the agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our operating results may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness or to fund our other expenditures and we may not be able to obtain financing to meet these requirements. Variable rate indebtedness that we have incurred or may incur under the Match Group Credit Agreement will subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. We currently have $800 million of indebtedness outstanding under our Term Loan. Borrowings under the Term Loan are, and any borrowings under the Match Group Credit Facility will be, at variable rates of interest. Indebtedness that bears interest at variable rates exposes us to interest rate risk The Term Loan currently bears interest at LIBOR plus 4.50%, with a LIBOR floor of 1.00%. LIBOR, at December 31, 2015, for similar borrowings of three months was approximately 60 basis points. If LIBOR were to increase by 100 basis points, the annual interest payments on the Term Loan would increase by 60 basis points or $4.8 million in 2016. If LIBOR decreased annual interest payments on the Term Loan would remain the same because of the 1% floor. Such potential changes in interest payments are based on the quarterly amortization schedule and certain simplifying assumptions, including a constant rate of variable-rate debt and an immediate across-the-board increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the period. 22 Table of Contents Risks related to ownership of our common stock The multi-class structure of our capital stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with holders of our Class B common stock and limiting your ability to influence corporate matters. Our publicly held common stock has one vote per share and our Class B common stock has ten votes per share. As of January 29, 2016, IAC owned all of the shares of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 84.5% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 98.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. Due to the ten-to-one voting ratio between our Class B common stock and common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively will continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our capital stock, even when the outstanding shares of Class B common stock represent a small minority of our outstanding capital stock, and such voting control will be concentrated with IAC. This concentrated control will significantly limit your ability to influence corporate matters. The difference in the voting rights of our common stock and our Class B common stock may harm the value and liquidity of our common stock. Holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share and holders of our common stock are entitled to one vote per share. The difference in the voting rights of our common stock and Class B common stock could harm the value of our common stock to the extent that any investor or potential future purchaser of our common stock ascribes value to the right of the holders of our Class B common stock to ten votes per share. The existence of two classes of common stock with different voting rights could result in less liquidity for either class of stock than if there were only one class of our common stock. The price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The initial public offering price of our common stock, which was determined through negotiation between us and the underwriters, was $12.00, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $16.17 and as low as $8.41 during the period from our initial public offering through March 23, 2016. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control and may not be related to our operating performance. These fluctuations could cause you to lose part of your investment in our common stock since you might be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks generally, or those in our industry in particular; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our stock by us and/or our directors, executive officers, employees and stockholders; the failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new brands, products or services; the public's reaction to our earnings releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; 23 Table of Contents litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth in any of our significant markets. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. We currently are, and in the future may be, the target of this type of litigation. See Item 3-Legal Proceedings. Securities litigation against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of our common stock may depress the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our stock in the market, including share which might be offered for sale by IAC. The perception that these sales might occur could depress the market price of our common stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at such times and prices as we deem appropriate. See -Future sales or distribution of our shares by IAC could depress our common stock price. As of January 29, 2016, there were 38,364,777 and 209,919,402 shares of our common stock and Class B common stock, respectively, outstanding. The shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction under the Securities Act, except for any shares purchased by our directors, executive officers and other affiliates, as that term is defined in the Securities Act, which will be restricted securities under the Securities Act. In connection with the initial public offering of our common stock, we, our directors and executive officer and IAC each entered into a lock-up agreement and are thereby subject to a lock-up period, meaning that we and they (and our and their permitted transferees) are not permitted to sell any shares of our capital stock for 180 days after the completion of the offering, subject to certain exceptions, without the prior consent of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Allen & Company LLC. Although we are not aware that there is any present intention to do so, the representatives at the underwriters may, in their sole discretion and without notice, release all or any portion of the shares from the restrictions in any of the lock-up agreements described above. After the expiration of the 180-day restricted period, which is scheduled to occur on May 17, 2016, all shares subject to lock-up agreements (including 266,500 shares of common stock and 10,010,228 vested Company stock options held by our directors and named executive officers, collectively, and 209,919,402 shares of Class B common stock held by IAC, in each case, as of the date of this annual report) may be sold in the public market in the United States, subject to prior registration in the United States, if required, or reliance upon an exemption from registration, including, in the case of shares held by affiliates or control persons, compliance with the volume restrictions of Rule 144. Lastly, in the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our capital stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. Our common stock has been trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "MTCH" since November 19, 2015. We cannot assure you that the current active trading market for our common stock that has developed on that exchange will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the likelihood that the current active trading market for our common stock will be maintained, the liquidity of this or any other trading market, the ability to sell shares of our common stock when desired or at what the prices. 24 Table of Contents We do not expect to declare any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock and Class B common stock for the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our future earnings will be retained to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including: our historic and projected financial condition, liquidity and results of operations; our capital levels and needs; tax considerations; any acquisitions or potential acquisitions that we may consider; statutory and regulatory prohibitions and other limitations; the terms of any credit agreements or other borrowing arrangements that restrict our ability to pay cash dividends, including the Match Group Credit Agreement and the indenture relating to the Match Group Senior Notes; general economic conditions; and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. We are not obligated to pay dividends on our common stock or Class B common stock . Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws or Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Delaware corporate law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous, including provisions which: authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt; limit the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; provide that certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware; and provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Match Group's corporate headquarters are located in Dallas, Texas. We do not own any real property. The facilities for our various businesses, which we lease (in some cases, from IAC) both in the United States and abroad, consist of executive and administrative offices and data centers. Certain significant properties that we lease, all of which consist of executive and administrative offices, are described in the table immediately below. 25 Location Business Square Feet Lease Expiration Dallas, Texas Match Group/Match Headquarters 50,000 September 30, 2016 (1) Paris, France Meetic Headquarters 41,000 December 31, 2021 New York, New York OkCupid Headquarters 11,000 October 31, 2017 West Hollywood, California Tinder Headquarters 14,000 December 31, 2016 (2) Ghent, Belgium Twoo Headquarters 12,000 December 31, 2018 _______________________________ (1) In October 2015, we entered into a new lease for these operations in Dallas, Texas, pursuant to which we have agreed to lease approximately 73,000 square feet through March 31, 2027. We will move these operations to this space on or before the expiration of our current lease. (2) Tinder leases the space for its headquarters in a building owned by IAC pursuant to the services agreement we entered into with IAC in connection with our initial public offering. The original lease term, which runs through December 31, 2016, will automatically renew unless terminated by either party. We also lease space in four data centers: two for our North American, Latin American and Asian operations (one in North Dallas, Texas from a third party and another in Ashburn, Virginia from IAC), and two for our European operations (one in Paris, France and another in Zaventem, Belgium, both from third parties). We believe that our current facilities are adequate to meet our ongoing needs. We also believe that, if we require additional space, we will be able to lease additional facilities on commercially reasonable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Overview We are, and from time to time may become, involved in various legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business activities, such as patent infringement claims, trademark oppositions and consumer or advertising complaints, as well as stockholder derivative actions, class action lawsuits and other matters. The amounts that may be recovered in such matters may be subject to insurance coverage. Although the results of legal proceedings and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we are not currently a party to any legal proceedings the outcome of which, we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. See "Item 1A-Risk factorsRisks relating to our businessWe are subject to litigation and adverse outcomes in such litigation could have an adverse effect on our financial condition." Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission require the description of material pending legal proceedings (other than ordinary, routine litigation incident to the registrants business) and advise that proceedings ordinarily need not be described if they primarily involve damages claims for amounts (exclusive of interest and costs) not exceeding 10% of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In the judgment of Match Group management, none of the pending litigation matters which we are defending, including those described below, involves or is likely to involve amounts of that magnitude. The litigation matters described below involve issues or claims that may be of particular interest to our stockholders, regardless of whether any of these matters may be material to our financial position or operations based upon the standard set forth in the SECs rules. Securities Class Action Litigation against Match Group On February 26, 2016, a putative nationwide class action was filed in federal court in Texas against the Company, five of its officers and directors, and twelve underwriters of the Companys initial public offering in November 2015. See David M. Stein v. Match Group, Inc. et al. , No. 3:16-cv-549 (U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas). The complaint alleges that the Companys registration statement and prospectus issued in connection with its initial public offering were materially false and misleading given their failure to state that: (i) the Companys Non-dating business would miss its revenue projection for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, and (ii) ARPPU (as defined in "Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations- Management Overview") would decline substantially in the quarter ended December 31, 2015. The complaint asserts that these alleged failures to timely disclose material information caused the Companys stock price to drop after the announcement of its earnings for the quarter ended December 31, 2015. The complaint pleads claims under the Securities Act of 1933 for untrue statements of material fact in, or omissions of material facts from, the registration 26 Table of Contents statement, the prospectus, and related communications in violation of Sections 11 and 12 and, as to the officer/director defendants only, control-person liability under Section 15 for the Companys alleged violations. The complaint seeks class certification, damages in an unspecified amount and attorneys fees. On March 9, 2016, a virtually identical class action complaint was filed in the same court against the same defendants by a different named plaintiff. See Stephany Kam-Wan Chan v. Match Group, Inc. et al. , No. 3:16-cv-668 (U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas). The Company believes that the allegations in these lawsuits are without merit and will defend vigorously against them. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market ("NASDAQ") under the ticker symbol "MTCH." Our common stock started trading on NASDAQ on November 19, 2015. Prior to November 19, 2015, there was no established public trading market for our common stock and there is no established public trading market for our Class B common stock. The table below sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the historical high and low sales prices per share for our common stock as reported on NASDAQ. High Low Year Ended December 31, 2015 Fourth Quarter (November 19, 2015 to December 31, 2015) $ 16.17 $ 12.63 As of March 23, 2016, there were two holders of record of the Company's common stock and the closing price of our common stock on NASDAQ was $10.72. Because the substantial majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, we are not able to estimate the total number of beneficial shareholders represented by these record holders. As of March 23, 2016, there was one holder of record of the Company's Class B common stock. Dividend Policy We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock or Class B common stock for the foreseeable future. Instead, we anticipate that all of our future earnings will be retained to support our operations and to finance the growth and development of our business. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be made by our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, covenants associated with our debt obligations, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, general economic conditions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities During the past three years, we granted certain of our directors, officers and employees the following options and restricted stock units relating to shares of our common stock pursuant to equity incentive plans then in effect: 666,779 options with an exercise price of $8.25 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013; 10,152,316 options with exercise prices ranging from $11.06 to $13.63 during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014; and 15,759,976 options with exercise prices ranging from $13.97 to $15.44 and 103,631 restricted stock units between January 1, 2014 and November 18, 2015. The number of options, exercise price and fair value per share for these awards reflects adjustments made to these awards in connection with our initial public offering. On November 18, 2015, we issued 41,666,667 shares of Class B common stock to IAC in respect of its $500.0 million cash contribution to fund our acquisition of PlentyOfFish, $155.0 million of which was contributed prior to September 30, 2015. None of the above transactions involved any underwriters or any public offerings and we believe that each of these transactions was exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4(a)(2), Regulation D or Rule 701 of the Securities Act or as transactions not involving the sale of securities. 27 Table of Contents Use of Proceeds On November 18, 2015, the SEC declared the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (SEC File No. 333-207472) related to the initial public offering of our common stock (the Form S-1) effective and we commenced the offering. We registered an aggregate of 38,333,333 shares of our common stock on the Form S-1, including shares that covered the underwriters option to purchase up to 5,000,000 additional shares from us at the initial public offering price during the 30 day period following the commencement of the offering. J.P .Morgan Securities LLC, Allen & Company LLC and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated acted as joint book-running managers for the offering and, in addition, Allen & Company LLC acted as representatives of the underwriters. On November 24, 2015, we closed the offering and sold 38,333,333 shares of our common stock at a price of $12.00 per share for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately $460.0 million. Less underwriting discounts and commissions in the aggregate amount of approximately $25.3 million and other fees and expenses related to the offering in the aggregate of approximately $6.4 million, net proceeds to us from the offering were approximately $428.3 million. We used all of the net proceeds from the offering to repay related-party indebtedness we issued to IAC on November 18, 2015 in an aggregate amount equal to the total net proceeds to us from the offering. Issuer repurchases of equity securities The Company did not purchase any shares of its common stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2015. 28 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected financial data set forth in the table below for 2015, 2014 and 2013 has been derived from our audited consolidated and combined financial statements as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 and for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. The combined statement of operations data for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the combined balance sheet data as of December 31, 2013 have been derived from our audited combined financial statements. This selected financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated and combined financial statements and accompanying notes included herein. Years Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) Statement of Operations Data: (1) Revenue $ 1,020,431 $ 888,268 $ 803,089 $ 713,449 Net earnings 120,487 148,359 126,627 90,281 Earnings per share attributable to Match Group, Inc. shareholders: Basic $ 0.69 $ 0.92 $ 0.78 $ 0.55 Diluted $ 0.65 $ 0.88 $ 0.76 $ 0.53 December 31, 2015 2014 (2) 2013 (2) (In thousands) Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 1,926,002 $ 1,302,109 $ 1,286,705 Long-term debt, including current maturities 1,233,481 Long-term debt, related party 190,586 79,000 ________________________________________________________________ (1) We recognized items that affected the comparability of results for the years 2015, 2014 and 2013, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." (2) Total assets has been adjusted due to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-17, Income Taxes, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as non-current in the balance sheet, see "Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in the consolidated and combined financial statements included in "Item 8Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." 29 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Terms: When the following terms appear in this report, they have the meanings indicated below: Reportable Segments Dating - consists of all of our dating businesses globally. Non-dating - consists of The Princeton Review. Dating North America - consists of the financial results of our Dating businesses for customers located in the United States and Canada. Dating International - consists of the financial results of our Dating businesses for customers located outside of the United States and Canada. Direct Revenue - is revenue that is directly received from an end user of our products. Indirect Revenue - is revenue that is not received directly from an end user of our products, substantially all of which is currently advertising revenue. Average PMC - is calculated by summing the number of paid members, or paid member count ("PMC") at the end of each day in the relevant measurement period and dividing it by the number of calendar days in that period. PMC as of any given time represents the number of users with a paid membership at that time. Users who purchase la carte features from us do not qualify as paid members for purposes of PMC by virtue of such purchase, though often such purchasers are also paid members. Average Revenue Per Paying User ("ARPPU") - is Direct Revenue in the relevant measurement period divided by the Average PMC in such period divided by the number of calendar days in such period. Cost of revenue - consists primarily of compensation (including stock-based compensation) and other employee-related costs for personnel engaged in data center and customer care functions, in-app purchase fees, credit card processing fees, hosting fees, content acquisition costs, and data center rent, energy and bandwidth costs. In-app purchase fees are monies paid to Apple and Google for the distribution and facilitation of in-app purchase of product features. Content acquisition cost consists principally of payments made to tutors at The Princeton Review. Selling and marketing expense - consists primarily of advertising expenditures and compensation (including stockbased compensation) and other employee-related costs for personnel engaged in selling and marketing, and sales support functions. Advertising expenditures includes online marketing, including fees paid to search engines, offline marketing, which is primarily television advertising and partner-related payments to those who direct traffic to our brands. General and administrative expense - consists primarily of compensation (including stock-based compensation) and other employee-related costs for personnel engaged in executive management, finance, legal, tax and human resources, fees for professional services and facilities costs. Product development expense - consists primarily of compensation (including stockbased compensation) and other employee-related costs that are not capitalized for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of product offerings and related technology. Match Group Senior Notes - The Company's 6.75% Senior Notes due December 15, 2022, with interest payable each June 15 and December 15; which were issued on November 16, 2015 in exchange for IAC's 4.75% Senior Notes due December 15, 2022 ("2012 Senior Notes"). Term Loan - The Company's $800 million, seven year term loan entered into on November 16, 2015. 30 Table of Contents MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW Match Group, Inc. ("Match Group," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us") is the worlds leading provider of dating products. We operate a portfolio of over 45 dating brands, including Match, OkCupid, PlentyOfFish, Tinder, Meetic, Twoo, OurTime, BlackPeopleMeet and FriendScout24, each designed to increase our users' likelihood of finding a romantic connection. Through our portfolio of trusted brands, we provide tailored products to meet the varying preferences of our users. We currently offer our dating products in 38 languages across more than 190 countries. In addition, to our Dating businesses, we also operate The Princeton Review, which provides a variety of test preparation, academic tutoring and college counseling services. Sources of Revenue All our dating products provide the use of certain features for free, and then offer a variety of additional features for paid members. Our Dating revenue is primarily derived directly from users in the form of recurring membership fees. Membership revenue is presented net of credits and credit card chargebacks. Members pay in advance, primarily by using a credit card, and, subject to certain conditions identified in our terms and conditions, all purchases are final and nonrefundable. Fees collected, or contractually due, in advance for memberships are deferred and recognized as revenue using the straight-line method over the terms of the applicable membership period, which primarily range from one to six months. We also earn revenue from online advertising, the purchase of la carte features and offline events. Online advertising revenue is recognized every time an ad is displayed. Revenue from the purchase of la carte features is recognized based on usage. Revenue and the related expenses associated with offline events are recognized when each event occurs. Non-dating revenue consists primarily of fees received directly from students for in-person and online test preparation classes, access to online test preparation materials and individual tutoring services. Fees from classes and access to online materials are recognized over the period of the course and the period of the online access, respectively. Tutoring fees are recognized based on usage. Trends affecting our Dating business Over the last several years, we have seen significant changes in our business. During this time, our portfolio has evolved from one dominated by our Match and affinity brands in North America, and Meetic internationally, to one in which Tinder, OkCupid, PlentyOfFish and Twoo now represent the majority of our overall user base. This portfolio evolution has led to, been driven by, or coincided with, a number of significant trends in our business including the following: Meaningful subscriber growth. Over the last several years, we have seen substantial growth in users paying for our products. This growth, however, has come at a slower pace than our user growth, as the mix of paid and free features at our Tinder, OkCupid, PlentyOfFish and Twoo brands inherently results in conversion of users to paid members (conversion) at lower rates than our other brands. However, because these brands have tended to grow their number of users at a more rapid pace, they contribute paid members in substantial numbers despite lower conversion rates. Additionally, we expect the percentage of users who are paid members (which we refer to as penetration) in these brands to increase meaningfully, as penetration tends to increase rapidly during the early years following the introduction of a Direct Revenue, or paying, model. This is driven by both the introduction of new features that attract different users to convert and by the dynamics of a subscription business in which members are retained for extended periods and new members are increasingly added. Thus, while we do expect the mix of users to continue to shift into these lower penetration brands, we expect penetration within these brands to increase meaningfully over the coming years. Strong mobile adoption. We have recently experienced strong growth in the usage of our products on mobile devices. Mobile adoption leads to higher user engagement and also opens new customer acquisition channels. As a result, mobile adoption has represented, and continues to represent, a significant growth opportunity for us. However, it also requires dedication of additional product and technology resources and often requires the payment of additional fees to app stores. Additionally, our mobile products, taken as a whole, have tended to have lower conversion rates than our desktop products, when we control for other factors impacting conversion. This has led to challenges over the last few years for those of our brands that had significant pre-existing desktop businesses with high percentages of paid members. Unlike a mobile only brand like Tinder, where each new mobile user is incremental to the total number of users, for those brands with significant desktop usage, many new mobile users are users who previously would have been likely to sign up for those products using the desktop. As a result, as the mobile migration has been rapidly underway, we have seen our overall conversion rates challenged in those businesses. However, we expect to see this trend reverse itself for two reasons. First, the migration to mobile will either slow rapidly or end as mobile devices obtain a more stable level of penetration within the population. Second, we expect to be able 31 Table of Contents to make significant product improvements to our mobile products over the coming years, driving meaningful conversion increases. Our mobile products are relatively early in their development stages, as we only began to devote meaningful resources to optimizing these products in the last few years; in contrast, we have focused on optimizing our desktop products for increased conversion for many years. Therefore, based on our prior experience with product improvement, and the finite nature of the mobile migration, we believe the conversion challenges we have been facing as a result of the rapid mobile migration in these businesses will level off and then reverse. Lower cost users. All of our brands rely on word-of-mouth, or free, customer acquisition to varying degrees. Word-of-mouth acquisition is typically a function of scale (with larger communities driving greater numbers of referrals), youthfulness (with the viral effect being more pronounced in younger populations due, in part, to a significantly higher concentration of single people in any given social circle) and monetization rate (with people generally more likely to talk openly about using dating products that are less heavily monetized). Additionally, some, but not all, of our brands spend meaningfully on paid marketing. Accordingly, the average amount we spend to acquire a user differs significantly across brands based in large part on each brands mix of paid and free acquisition channels. As our mix has shifted toward younger users, our mix of acquisition channels has shifted toward free channels, driving a significant decline over the past several years in the average amount we spend to acquire a new user across our portfolio. Our costs of acquiring paid members have also declined meaningfully. We expect the dynamics that have led to the growth in word-of-mouth customer acquisition to continue going forward and for our brands to continue to acquire significant numbers of users through low-cost means. Mix-driven decline in consolidated ARPPU. Tinder, OkCupid, PlentyOfFish and Twoo all have a lower ARPPU, than our other brands. As the number of paid members from the lower ARPPU brands has become an increasingly large percentage of our aggregate number of paid members, our overall or consolidated ARPPU has declined. However, within many of our significant brands individually, ARPPU is increasing. Additionally, the decline in ARPPU has coincided with the decline in the cost of acquiring new users discussed above. Although brand mix shift is reducing consolidated ARPPU, we see continued ability to increase price at many of our brands. Changing paid acquisition dynamics. Even as our acquisition of lower cost users increases, paid acquisition of users remains an important driver of our business. The channels through which we market our brands are always evolving, but we are currently in a period of rapid change as TV and video consumption patterns evolve and internet consumption shifts from desktop to mobile devices. However, advertising opportunities have not kept up with audience migration, putting pressure on our paid marketing activities. Recently, we have been able to increase our marketing spend despite these trends, and to bring down the costs of acquiring new users to our products through our paid channels. However, our increases in spend have generally been made in less effective channels, bringing in lower converting users. We believe that advertising opportunities will increasingly follow consumer usage patterns, and that as this occurs, and as we improve our expertise at exploiting these evolving marketing channels, we will be able to increase our marketing efficiency over time. Other factors affecting the comparability of our results Advertising spend. Our advertising spend, which is included in our selling and marketing expense, has consistently been our largest operating expense. In recent periods, we have focused our adverting spend on display, mobile, television and search channels. We seek to optimize for total return on advertising spend by frequently analyzing and adjusting this spend through numerous campaigns to focus on marketing channels and markets that generate a high return. Our data-driven approach provides us the flexibility to scale and optimize our advertising spend. We spend marketing dollars against an expected lifetime value of a customer that is realized by us over a multi-year period; and while this marketing is intended to be profitable on that basis, it is nearly always negative during the period in which the expense is incurred. Accordingly, our operating results, in particular our profit measures, for a particular period may be meaningfully impacted by the timing, size, number or effectiveness of our advertising campaigns in that period. Additionally, advertising spend is typically higher during the first quarter of our fiscal year, and lower during the fourth quarter. See Seasonality. Seasonality. Historically, our Dating business has experienced seasonal fluctuations in quarterly operating results, particularly with respect to our profit measurements. This is driven primarily by a higher concentration of advertising spend in the first quarter, when advertising prices are lowest and demand for our products is highest, and a lower concentration of advertising spend in the fourth quarter, when advertising costs are highest and demand for our products is lowest. International markets. Our products are available in over 190 countries. Our international revenue represented 32% and 35% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. We vary our pricing to align with 32 Table of Contents local market conditions and our international businesses typically earn revenue in local currencies, primarily the Euro. As foreign currency exchange rates change, translation of the statement of operations of our international businesses into U.S. dollars affects year-over-year comparability of operating results. Business combinations. Acquisitions are an important part of our growth strategy, and we expect to make additional acquisitions in the future. During the three years ended December 31, 2015, we have invested approximately $661.8 million to acquire 15 new brands for our dating portfolio including Twoo, FriendScout24, Eureka and PlentyOfFish. As a consequence of the contributions of these businesses and acquisition-related expenses, our consolidated and combined results of operations may not be comparable between periods. Non-dating business In addition to our Dating business, we also operate The Princeton Review, which provides a variety of test preparation, academic tutoring and college counseling services. We acquired this business because it relies on many of the same competencies as those relied upon by our Dating business, such as paid customer acquisition, a combination of paid and free business models, a deep understanding of the lifetime values of customers and a strong expertise in user-interface development. Our strategy in the Non-dating business is to focus on digitizing delivery of our education services and cross-selling multiple products, including academic tutoring, college counseling services and test preparation services, to our customers. We believe that by doing so, we can improve the economics of this business and drive earnings growth over time. Recent Developments On November 24, 2015, the Company completed its initial public offering ("IPO"). At December 31, 2015, IAC/InterActiveCorp's ("IAC") ownership interest and voting interest in the Company were 84.6% and 98.2%, respectively. On November 16, 2015: The Company exchanged $445.3 million of IAC's 2012 Senior Notes for $445.2 million of Match Group Senior Notes. The Company amended and restated its credit agreement to provide for an $800 million Term Loan. On October 28, 2015, the Company completed the purchase of Plentyoffish Media Inc., ("PlentyOfFish"), for $575 million in cash. On October 7, 2015, the Company entered into a credit agreement, which provides for a $500 million revolving credit facility that expires on October 7, 2020. 2015 Consolidated Results In 2015, we delivered 15% revenue growth and 2% Adjusted EBITDA growth; however, operating income declined 15%. Revenue growth was primarily driven by an increase in Direct revenue and the full year contribution from The Princeton Review. Foreign exchange effects negatively impacted Dating revenue by 6%. Adjusted EBITDA increased 2% , slower than the 15% increase in revenue due to $16.8 million of costs in the current year related to our ongoing consolidation and streamlining of technology systems and European operations at the Dating businesses. The operating income decline was due primarily to an increase in stock-based compensation. 33 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 Revenue Years Ended December 31, 2015 Change % Change 2014 Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands, except ARPPU) Direct Revenue: North America $ 583,232 $ 57,304 10.9 % $ 525,928 $ 32,199 6.5 % $ 493,729 International 283,351 9,752 3.6 % 273,599 13,259 5.1 % 260,340 Total Direct Revenue 866,583 67,056 8.4 % 799,527 45,458 6.0 % 754,069 Indirect Revenue 43,122 6,191 16.8 % 36,931 2,803 8.2 % 34,128 Total Dating Revenue 909,705 73,247 8.8 % 836,458 48,261 6.1 % 788,197 Non-dating Revenue 110,726 58,916 113.7 % 51,810 36,918 247.9 % 14,892 Total Revenue $ 1,020,431 $ 132,163 14.9 % $ 888,268 $ 85,179 10.6 % $ 803,089 Percentage of Total Revenue: Direct Revenue: North America 57.2 % 59.2 % 61.5 % International 27.8 % 30.8 % 32.4 % Total Direct Revenue 85.0 % 90.0 % 93.9 % Indirect Revenue 4.2 % 4.2 % 4.2 % Total Dating Revenue 89.2 % 94.2 % 98.1 % Non-dating Revenue 10.8 % 5.8 % 1.9 % Total Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Average PMC: North America 2,712 308 12.8 % 2,404 235 10.8 % 2,169 International 1,435 338 30.8 % 1,097 77 7.5 % 1,020 Total 4,147 646 18.5 % 3,501 312 9.8 % 3,189 ARPPU: North America $ 0.59 $ (0.01 ) (1.7 )% $ 0.60 $ (0.02 ) (3.9 )% $ 0.62 International $ 0.54 $ (0.14 ) (20.8 )% $ 0.68 $ (0.02 ) (2.3 )% $ 0.70 Total $ 0.57 $ (0.06 ) (8.5 )% $ 0.63 $ (0.02 ) (3.4 )% $ 0.65 For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Revenue increased $132.2 million or 14.9% in 2015 versus 2014, or 20.3% excluding the effects of foreign exchange. North America Direct Revenue grew $57.3 million , or 10.9% , in 2015 versus 2014, driven by 12.8% growth in Average PMC, partially offset by a 1.7% decline in ARPPU. Average PMC growth was driven by an increase in the percentage of new users becoming paid members, growth in new users and higher beginning PMC. ARPPU decreased due to mix shifts to lower rate brands, partially offset by an increase in mix-adjusted rates. International Direct Revenue grew $9.8 million , or 3.6% , in 2015 versus 2014, primarily driven by 30.8% growth in Average PMC, partially offset by a 20.8% decline in ARPPU. Average PMC growth was driven by an increase in the percentage of new users becoming paid members, growth in new users, and higher beginning PMC. The majority of the decline in ARPPU was due to the effects of foreign exchange. Adjusting for foreign exchange effects, International Direct Revenue grew 20.8%, and International ARPPU declined 7.6% as a result of a mix shift to lower rate brands, partially offset by increases in mix adjusted rates. Non-dating revenue increased $58.9 million , or 113.7% , as a result of the full year contribution from The Princeton Review, which was acquired in August 2014. 34 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Revenue increased $85.2 million , or 10.6% , in 2014 versus 2013. North America Direct Revenue increased $32.2 million , or 6.5% , in 2014 versus 2013, driven by 10.8% growth in Average PMC, partially offset by a 3.9% decline in ARPPU. Average PMC growth was driven by a strong increase in beginning PMC and strong new user growth, partially offset by mix shift to brands where a lower percentage of new users become paid members. ARPPU decreased due to mix shifts to lower rate brands as well as a decline in mix-adjusted rates. International Direct Revenue increased $13.3 million , or 5.1% , in 2014 versus 2013, driven by 7.5% growth in Average PMC, partially offset by a 2.3% decline in ARPPU. Average PMC growth was driven by a strong increase in beginning PMC, the acquisition of FriendScout24 and growth in new users, partially offset by mix shift to brands where a lower percentage of new users became paid members. ARPPU decreased due to mix shift to lower rate brands, partially offset by mix-adjusted rate increases. Non-dating revenue grew $36.9 million , or 247.9% , as a result of our acquisition of The Princeton Review in August 2014. Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation) Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $177,988 $57,964 48.3% $120,024 $34,079 39.7% $85,945 Percentage of revenue 17.4% 13.5% 10.7% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Cost of revenue increased $58.0 million , or 48.3% , in 2015 versus 2014. Dating cost of revenue increased $39.6 million, or 41.8%, meaningfully more than the growth in revenue, driven primarily by a significant increase in in-app purchase fees across multiple brands, including Tinder, which started to monetize in earnest in 2015, as well as higher hosting fees driven by growth in users and product features. Non-dating cost of revenue increased $18.4 million, or 72.8%, driven by the acquisition of The Princeton Review, for which cost of revenue represents a meaningfully larger percentage of revenue than in Dating. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Cost of revenue increased $34.1 million , or 39.7% , in 2014 versus 2013. Dating cost of revenue increased $16.0 million, or 20.4%, meaningfully more than the growth in revenue driven primarily by a significant increase in in-app purchases given that our native mobile apps were largely introduced in the second quarter of 2014, as well as higher hosting fees driven by growth in users and product features. Non-dating cost of revenue increased $18.0 million, or 250.6%, driven by the acquisition of The Princeton Review, for which cost of revenue represents a meaningfully larger percentage of revenue than in Dating. Selling and marketing expense Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Selling and marketing expense $359,598 $24,491 7.3% $335,107 $13,237 4.1% $321,870 Percentage of revenue 35.2% 37.7% 40.1% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Selling and marketing expense increased $24.5 million , or 7.3% , in 2015 versus 2014. 35 Table of Contents Dating selling and marketing expense increased $18.1 million, or 5.6%, driven primarily by the acquisitions of FriendScout24 in 2014 and Eureka in 2015, and an increase in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by declines in advertising spend as a percentage of revenue. Non-dating selling and marketing expense increased $6.4 million, or 61.6%, primarily driven by the acquisition of The Princeton Review. Selling and marketing expense at Non-dating generally represents a smaller percentage of revenue than in Dating. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Selling and marketing expense increased $13.2 million , or 4.1% , in 2014 versus 2013. Dating selling and marketing expense increased $8.3 million, or 2.6%, driven by an increase of $5.4 million from the acquisition of FriendScout24 and an increase in advertising spend. Non-dating selling and marketing expense increased $5.0 million, or 91.7%, driven primarily by $4.5 million from the acquisition of The Princeton Review. General and administrative expense Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative expense $175,857 $57,967 49.2% $117,890 $24,249 25.9% $93,641 Percentage of revenue 17.2% 13.3% 11.7% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 General and administrative expense increased $58.0 million , or 49.2% , in 2015 versus 2014. Dating general and administrative expense increased $33.9 million, or 38.3%, driven primarily by an increase of $19.6 million in stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain equity awards and new grants, as well as an increase of $3.3 million in severance expense and costs during the current year related to on-going consolidation and streamlining of technology systems and European operations. Additionally, 2014 was impacted by a $3.9 million benefit related to the expiration of the statute of limitations for a non-income tax matter. Non-dating general and administrative expense increased $24.1 million, or 81.7%, driven by the acquisition of The Princeton Review. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 General and administrative expense increased $24.2 million , or 25.9% , in 2014 versus 2013. Dating general and administrative expense increased $1.7 million, or 2.0%, primarily driven by an increase in compensation of $10.7 million at our existing businesses, primarily due to an increase of $8.5 million in stock-based compensation expense due to new grants and increased headcount. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $13.3 million for an acquisition-related contingent consideration fair value adjustment at Twoo driven by changes in the forecast of earnings and operating metrics, and a $3.9 million benefit recorded in the first quarter of 2014 related to the expiration of the statute of limitations for a non-income tax matter. Non-dating general and administrative expense increased $22.5 million, or 327.2%, driven primarily by $21.2 million from the acquisition of The Princeton Review. 36 Table of Contents Product development expense Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Product development expense $67,348 $17,610 35.4% $49,738 $6,765 15.7% $42,973 Percentage of revenue 6.6% 5.6% 5.4% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Product development expense increased $17.6 million or 35.4% , in 2015 versus 2014, driven primarily by increased salaries and wages from existing businesses and from acquisitions at Dating, $4.0 million in severance expense and costs in the current year, primarily in the first half of 2015, related to our ongoing consolidation and streamlining of technology systems and European operations at Dating and an increase of $3.3 million in stock-based compensation expense due to the modification of certain equity awards and new grants. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Product development expense increased $6.8 million , or 15.7% , in 2014 versus 2013, primarily driven by an increase in compensation driven by increased headcount at Tinder and Tutor.com (now The Princeton Review). Depreciation Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Depreciation $25,983 $436 1.7% $25,547 $5,345 26.5% $20,202 Percentage of revenue 2.5% 2.9% 2.5% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Depreciation increased $0.4 million , or 1.7% , in 2015 versus 2014, driven by the acquisition of The Princeton Review, partially offset by a decline in depreciation at Dating. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Depreciation increased by $5.3 million , or 26.5% , in 2014 versus 2013, primarily driven by $3.8 million from the acquisition of The Princeton Review and the incremental depreciation associated with capital expenditures. Adjusted EBITDA Refer to Note 13 to our consolidated and combined financial statements for reconciliations of Adjusted EBITDA to operating income and net earnings attributable to Match Group, Inc. shareholders. Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Adjusted EBITDA $278,667 $5,219 1.9% $273,448 $2,217 0.8% $271,231 Percentage of revenue 27.3% 30.8% 33.8% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Adjusted EBITDA increased $5.2 million or 1.9% , in 2015 versus 2014. Dating Adjusted EBITDA decreased $4.7 million, or 1.6%, despite higher revenue, primarily due to $16.8 million of costs in the current year across our expense categories related to our ongoing consolidation and streamlining of technology systems and European operations, an increase in cost of revenue and a $3.9 million benefit in the prior year related to the expiration of the statute of limitations for a non-income tax matter. 37 Table of Contents Non-dating Adjusted EBITDA loss declined $10.0 million, or 62.8%, primarily due to reduced losses from The Princeton Review. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Adjusted EBITDA increased $2.2 million or 0.8% , in 2014 versus 2013. Dating Adjusted EBITDA increased $11.8 million or 4.3%, due primarily to the increase in revenue of 6.1%, partially offset by the increase in cost of revenue, which grew at a meaningfully faster rate than revenue due to the factors described above. Non-dating Adjusted EBITDA loss increased $9.6 million, or 154.2%, due primarily to losses from the acquisition of The Princeton Review. Operating income Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Operating income $193,556 $(35,011) (15.3)% $228,567 $7,234 3.3% $221,333 Percentage of revenue 19.0% 25.7% 27.6% For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Operating income decreased $35.0 million , or 15.3% , in 2015 versus 2014. Dating operating income decreased $40.7 million, or 16.1%, primarily due to the decrease of $4.7 million in Adjusted EBITDA described above and an increase of $29.9 million in stock-based compensation expense, which is due to the modification of certain equity awards, the periodic re-assessment of certain performance-based restricted stock units and new grants; and an increase of $6.0 million in amortization of intangibles related to acquisitions occurring in 2015. Non-dating operating loss decreased $5.7 million, or 22.8%, as a result of the reduced Adjusted EBITDA losses described above, offset by increases of $2.1 million in depreciation expense and $2.7 million in amortization expense, which are primarily due to the acquisition of The Princeton Review. At December 31, 2015, there was $95.9 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to all equity-based awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.8 years. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Operating income increased $7.2 million , or 3.3% , in 2014 versus 2013. Dating operating income increased $23.5 million, or 10.2%, primarily due to the increase of $11.8 million in Adjusted EBITDA described above and decreases of $13.3 million in acquisition-related contingent consideration fair value adjustments and $7.7 million in amortization of intangibles, partially offset by an increase of $7.8 million in stock-based compensation expense. The change in acquisition-related contingent consideration fair value adjustments was related to changes in Twoos forecast of earnings and operating metrics. The decrease in amortization of intangibles was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily due to new grants. Non-dating operating loss increased $16.2 million, or 181.4%, primarily due to the increase in Adjusted EBITDA loss of $9.6 million described above as well as increases of $3.8 million in depreciation expense and $2.0 million in amortization of intangibles due primarily to the acquisition of The Princeton Review. 38 Table of Contents Interest expense Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Interest expensethird party $(18,049) $(18,049) NA $ $ NA $ Interest expenserelated party (8,009) $17,532 (68.6)% (25,541) $8,766 (25.6)% (34,307) ________________________ NA = not applicable For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Interest expensethird party relates to interest on the $800 million Term Loan and Match Group Senior Notes and the commitment fee on the Company's revolving credit facility, all of which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2015. Included in third party interest expense is $7.3 million of debt issuance costs related to the Match Group Senior Notes. Interest expenserelated party includes interest charged by IAC and its subsidiaries on long-term debt, related party, as well as on other acquisitions-related loans, a portion of which was capitalized on June 30, 2014. The long-term debt, related party was settled during the fourth quarter of 2015. Other income, net Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Other income, net $11,887 $(723) (5.7)% $12,610 $12,393 NM $217 ________________________ NM = not meaningful For the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Other income, net includes $7.6 million and $8.3 million in 2015 and 2014, respectively, in foreign currency exchange gains related to our 53 million 5.00% Note payable to an IAC subsidiary. This note was settled during the fourth quarter of 2015 prior to Company's IPO. For the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Other income, net in 2014 includes $8.3 million in foreign currency exchange gains related to our 53 million 5.00% Note payable issued on April 8, 2014 to an IAC subsidiary. Income tax provision Years Ended December 31, 2015 $ Change % Change 2014 $ Change % Change 2013 (Dollars in thousands) Income tax provision $(58,898) NM NM $(67,277) NM NM $(60,616) Effective income tax rate 32.8% 31.2% 32.4% For discussion of income taxes, see Note 3Income Taxes to the consolidated and combined financial statements. For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company recorded income tax provisions of $58.9 million , $67.3 million , and $60.6 million , respectively, which represent effective income tax rates of 32.8% , 31.2% and 32.4% , respectively. In 2015 and 2014, the effective income tax rates were lower than the statutory rate of 35% due primarily to non-taxable contingent consideration fair value adjustments and non-taxable foreign currency exchange gains, partially offset by state taxes. In 2013, the effective income tax rate was lower than the statutory rate of 35% due primarily to the settlement of uncertain tax positions. 39 FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Financial Position December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents: United States (1) $ 34,422 $ 4,890 All other countries (2) 53,751 122,740 Marketable equity security (United States) 11,622 Total cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 99,795 $ 127,630 Long-term debt: Term Loan, final payment due November 16, 2022 (3) $ 800,000 $ Match Group Senior Notes due December 15, 2022 445,172 3.57% Notesrelated party (3) 79,000 5.00% Note related party (3) 64,586 5.90% Note related party (3) 47,000 1,245,172 190,586 Less: Current portion of long-term debt 40,000 Less: Net adjustment for remaining original issue discount on Term Loan and original issue premium related to the Match Exchange Offer 11,691 Total long-term debt, net of current maturities $ 1,193,481 $ 190,586 (1) Domestically, the entire balance reflects cash deposits held in financial institutions. Prior to the IPO, the Company participated in IACs centrally managed U.S. treasury management function in which IAC swept our domestic cash. (2) Internationally, there is $3.6 million of cash equivalents, at December 31, 2015, which consist of money market funds; the balance reflects cash deposits held in financial institutions. If needed for our U.S. operations, most of the cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries could be repatriated, which, under current tax law, would be subject to U.S. federal and state income taxes. We currently do not anticipate a need to repatriate these funds to finance our U.S. operations and it is our intent to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the U.S.; therefore, we have not provided for any U.S. income taxes related to these funds. (3) The net proceeds received from the Term Loan were used, in part, to pay off the related party long-term debt and the remainder was distributed to IAC. Principal payments of $10 million under the Term Loan are due quarterly through maturity, at which point a final principal payment of $530 million will become due. Cash Flow Information In summary, the Company's cash flows are as follows: Years ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (In thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 209,082 $ 173,615 $ 174,797 Net cash used in investing activities (648,862 ) (140,200 ) (53,986 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 408,219 (20,058 ) (105,262 ) 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities consists of earnings adjusted for non-cash items, including stock-based compensation expense, depreciation, amortization of intangibles, deferred income taxes, acquisition-related contingent 40 consideration fair value adjustments, and the effect of changes in working capital activities. Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consist of $50.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $26.0 million of depreciation and $20.1 million of amortization of intangibles, partially offset by deferred income taxes of $22.5 million and $11.1 million of acquisition-related contingent consideration fair value adjustments. The increase in changes in working capital consists primarily of an increase in deferred revenue of $37.8 million and an increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $31.7 million , partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $29.3 million and an increase in other assets of $11.3 million . The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to growth in membership fees in the Dating business and acquisitions. The increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities is primarily due to increased advertising spending, the timing of advertising payments, and an increase in accrued interest related to the Company's Term Loan and Match Group Senior Notes. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily due to growth in in-app purchases sold through Datings mobile products. The increase in other assets was primarily due to an increase in prepaid expenses, mainly from growth and the signing of longer-term contracts. Net cash used in investing activities in 2015 includes acquisitions of $611.3 million , which includes $575.0 million for PlentyOfFish, and capital expenditures of $29.2 million , primarily related to the internal development of software to support our products and services, and computer hardware. Net cash provided by financing activities in 2015 includes $788.0 million in borrowings under the Term Loan, $428.8 million in net proceeds received from the IPO, $500.0 million in capital contribution from IAC to partially fund the acquisition of PlentyOfFish and excess tax benefits from stock-based awards of $38.4 million , partially offset by a cash dividend to IAC of $1.0 billion , the repayment of $182.5 million in related party debt, net cash transfers of $86.0 million to IAC related to its centrally managed U.S. treasury management function, $23.4 million for the repurchase of stock-based awards, $17.2 million in debt issuance costs related to our Term Loan and revolving credit facility and $7.0 million of debt issuance costs related to the Match Group Senior Notes. 2014 Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consist of $25.5 million of depreciation, $20.9 million of stock-based compensation expense and $11.4 million of amortization of intangibles, partially offset by $12.9 million in acquisition-related contingent consideration fair value adjustments, $9.0 million in other adjustments, net, principally related to an $8.3 million foreign currency gain on the 53 million note and $5.9 million of deferred income taxes. The changes from working capital activities primarily consist of an increase in other assets of $10.6 million and a decrease of $8.0 million in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities, partially offset by an increase in deferred revenue of $8.6 million. The increase in other assets is due to an increase in prepaid marketing at Dating and an increase in prepaid hosting fees in connection with the growth in users and product features. The decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and other current liabilities is due to the timing of payments. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to the acquisition of The Princeton Review and growth in Dating membership revenue. Net cash used in investing activities in 2014 includes acquisitions of $114.1 million, which includes The Princeton Review, and capital expenditures of $21.8 million, primarily related to the internal development of software to support our products and services. Net cash used in financing activities in 2014 includes cash transfers of $108.7 million to IAC, $33.2 million for the purchase of noncontrolling interests in Tinder and Meetic and a $7.4 million contingent consideration payment related to the 2013 Twoo acquisition, partially offset by $111.6 million in proceeds from the issuance of related party debt, the return of $12.4 million of funds held in escrow related to the Meetic tender offer and $5.3 million in excess tax benefits from stock-based awards. 2013 Adjustments for non-cash items primarily consist of $20.2 million of depreciation, $17.1 million of amortization of intangibles and $12.2 million of stock-based compensation expense. The changes from working capital activities primarily consist of an increase in deferred revenue of $12.4 million, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $3.7 million. The increase in deferred revenue is primarily due to the growth in membership revenue. The increase in accounts receivable is primarily due to growth in indirect revenue at Dating. Net cash used in investing activities in 2013 includes acquisitions of $32.1 million, which includes Twoo, and capital expenditures of $19.8 million primarily related to the internal development of software to support our products and services. 41 Net cash used in financing activities in 2013 includes $71.5 million held in escrow related to the Meetic tender offer and $52.6 million for the purchase of noncontrolling interests in Meetic, partially offset by $10.8 million in excess tax benefits from stock-based awards and cash transfers of $9.7 million from IAC. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's principal sources of liquidity are its cash flows generated from operations as well as cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. On October 7, 2015, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the "Match Group Credit Agreement"), which provides for a five-year $500 million revolving credit facility (the "Match Group Credit Facility"). At December 31, 2015, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Match Group Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Match Group Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company's option, at a base rate or LIBOR, in each case plus an applicable margin, which is determined by reference to a pricing grid based on the Company's consolidated net leverage ratio. On November 16, 2015, the Company completed a private exchange offer to eligible holders to exchange any and all of IAC's 2012 Senior Notes for up to $500 million aggregate principal amount of Match Group Senior Notes issued by the Company (the "Match Exchange Offer"). The Company exchanged $445.3 million of IAC's 2012 Senior Notes for $445.2 million of Match Group Senior Notes pursuant to the Match Exchange Offer. Prior to the IPO, the Company and certain of its domestic subsidiaries were guarantors of IACs 4.875% Senior Notes due November 30, 2018 (the "2013 Senior Notes"), IAC's 2012 Senior Notes and IAC's $300 million revolving credit facility (the "IAC Credit Facility"). Promptly following the closing of the Match Exchange Offer, the Company and its subsidiaries were designated as unrestricted subsidiaries of IAC for purposes of the indentures governing IAC's 2013 and 2012 Senior Notes and the IAC Credit Facility. Following the designation, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries guaranteed any debt of IAC, or are subject to any of the covenants related to such debt. The indenture governing the Match Group Senior Notes restricts the Company's ability to incur additional indebtedness in the event it is not in compliance with the maximum leverage ratio of 5.0 to 1.0. At December 31, 2015, there were no limitations pursuant thereto. There are additional covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) incur indebtedness, make investments, or sell assets in the event the Company is not in compliance with the financial ratio set forth in the indenture, and (ii) incur liens, enter into agreements restricting the ability of the Company's subsidiaries to pay dividends, enter into transactions with affiliates and consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of their assets. On November 16, 2015, the Company amended and restated the Match Group Credit Agreement to provide for an $800 million, seven-year term loan. Principal payments of $10 million under the Term Loan are due quarterly through maturity, at which point a final principal payment of $530 million will become due. Additionally, the Term Loan may require additional annual principal payments as part of an excess cash flow sweep provision, the amount of which is governed by the net secured leverage ratio. The Term Loan bears interest, at our option, at the base rate or LIBOR, plus 3.50% or 4.50%, respectively, with, in the case of LIBOR, a floor of 1.00%. Interest payments are due no less than semi-annually through the term of the loan. The Term Loan and outstanding borrowings, if any, under the Match Group Credit Facility rank pari-passu with each other, and have priority over the Match Group Senior Notes. The terms of the Match Group Credit Facility require the Company to maintain a leverage ratio of not more than 5.00 to 1.00 and a minimum interest coverage ratio of not less than 2.50 to 1.00. As of December 31, 2015, the Company was in compliance with all applicable covenants. There are additional covenants under the Match Group Credit Facility and the Match Group Term Loan that limit the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to, among other things, incur indebtedness, pay dividends or make distributions. While the Term Loan remains outstanding, these same covenants under the Match Group Credit Agreement are more restrictive than the covenants that are applicable to the Match Group Credit Facility. Obligations under the Match Group Credit Facility and Term Loan are unconditionally guaranteed by certain Match Group wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, and are also secured by the stock of certain Match Group domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Prior to the IPO, the Company entered into an uncommitted subordinated loan facility with IAC (the "IAC Subordinated Loan Facility"), which allows the Company to make one or more requests to IAC to borrow funds from it. If IAC agrees to fulfill any such borrowing request from the Company, such borrowing will be incurred in accordance with the terms of the IAC Subordinated Loan Facility. Any indebtedness outstanding under the IAC Subordinated Loan Facility will be by its terms subordinated in right of payment to the obligations under the Match Group Credit Facility, the Match Group Term Loan and the Match Group Senior Notes. The IAC Subordinated Loan Facility has a scheduled final maturity date of no earlier than 90 days after the maturity date of the Match Group Credit Facility or the latest maturity date in respect of any class of Term Loans outstanding under the Match Group Credit Agreement. At December 31, 2015, the Company has no indebtedness outstanding under the IAC Subordinated Loan Facility. 42 The Company anticipates that it will need to make capital and other expenditures in connection with the development and expansion of its operations. The Company expects that 2016 capital expenditures will be higher than 2015 by approximately 10% to 20%, driven primarily by leasehold improvements related to a new lease for the Company's corporate headquarters. The Company believes its expected positive cash flows generated from operations together with its existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and available borrowing capacity under the Match Group Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund its normal operating requirements, including capital expenditures, debt service, withholding taxes related to net-settled stock-based awards, and investing and other commitments for the foreseeable future. The Company's liquidity could be negatively affected by a decrease in demand for our products and services. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to: (i) obtain additional financing to fund working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures or debt service or other requirements; and (ii) use operating cash flow to make acquisitions, capital expenditures, invest in other areas, such as developing properties and exploiting business opportunities. IAC owns all of the shares of our outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 84.6% of our outstanding shares of capital stock and approximately 98.2% of the combined voting power of our outstanding capital stock. As a result of IAC's ability to control the election and removal of our board of directors, IAC effectively has the ability to control our financing activities, including the issuance of additional debt and equity securities, or the incurrence of other indebtedness. While the Company believes we will have the ability to access debt and equity markets if needed, such transactions may require the concurrence of IAC. 43 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS Payments Due by Period Contractual Obligations (a) Less Than 1 Year 13 Years 35 Years More Than 5 Years Total (In thousands) Long-term debt (b) $ 116,887 $ 221,495 $ 212,671 $ 1,168,754 $ 1,719,807 Operating leases (c) 9,788 19,500 9,948 19,621 58,857 Total contractual obligations $ 126,675 $ 240,995 $ 222,619 $ 1,188,375 $ 1,778,664 _______________________________________________________________________________ (a) The Company has excluded $26.2 million in unrecognized tax benefits and related interest from the table above as we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which these liabilities might be paid. For additional information on income taxes, see Note 3 to the consolidated and combined financial statements. (b) Represents contractual amounts due including interest on both a fixed and a variable rate instrument. Long-term debt at December 31, 2015 consists of Match Group Senior Notes of $445 million, which bears interest at a fixed rate, and the Term Loan of $800 million, which bears interest at a variable rate. The Term Loan currently bears interest at LIBOR plus 4.50%, with a LIBOR floor of 1.00%. The amount of interest ultimately paid on the Term Loan may differ based on future changes in interest rates. (c) The Company leases office space, data center facilities and equipment used in connection with its operations under various operating leases, many of which contain escalation clauses. In addition, future minimum lease payments include our allocable share of an IAC data center lease. In addition to amounts included in the table above, as of December 31, 2015, we were contingently obligated to pay, in connection with our acquisitions, up to an additional $168.2 million of cash consideration based on the combination of earnings performance and user grow at the businesses acquired. A substantial portion of the $168.2 million maximum liability ($79.9 million) relates to the contingent consideration arrangement entered into in connection with one acquisition, which had its final measurement period at the end of 2015. Based on 2015 results, the Company will not be required to make additional payments with respect to this contingent consideration arrangement. The Company has accrued $29.0 million as of December 31, 2015 for its other contingent consideration arrangements. We also had $0.3 million of surety bonds outstanding as of December 31, 2015 that could potentially require performance by the Company in the event of demands by third parties or contingent events. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the items described above, the Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2015. 44 Table of Contents MATCH GROUP, INC. PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING Match Group reports Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This measure is one of the primary metrics by which we evaluate the performance of our businesses, on which our internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. We believe that investors should have access to, and we are obligated to provide, the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Match Group endeavors to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measure presented by providing the comparable GAAP measure with equal or greater prominence and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measure. We encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measure, which we discuss below. Definition of Match Group's Non-GAAP Measures Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") is defined as operating income excluding: (1) stock-based compensation expense; (2) depreciation; and (3) acquisition-related items consisting of (i) amortization of intangible assets and impairments of goodwill and intangible assets and (ii) gains and losses recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements. We believe this measure is useful for analysts and investors as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison between our performance and that of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are non-cash in nature, and we believe that by excluding these items, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to our consolidated and combined statement of operations of certain expenses. Non-Cash Expenses That Are Excluded From Match Group's Adjusted EBITDA Stock-based compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with the grants of stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs") and performance-based RSUs. These expenses are not paid in cash. Upon the exercise of certain stock options and vesting of RSUs and performance-based RSUs, the awards are settled, at the Company's discretion, on a net basis, with the Company remitting the required tax-withholding amount from its current funds. Depreciation is a non-cash expense relating to our property and equipment and is computed using the straight-line method to allocate the cost of depreciable assets to operations over their estimated useful lives. Amortization of intangible assets and impairments of goodwill and intangible assets are non-cash expenses. At the time of an acquisition, the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets of the acquired company, such as customer lists, trade names, content, technology and franchise rights are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. Value is also assigned to acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, which comprise trade names and trademarks, and goodwill that are not subject to amortization. An impairment is recorded when the carrying value of an intangible asset or goodwill exceeds its fair value. We believe that intangible assets represent costs incurred by the acquired company to build value prior to acquisition and the related amortization and impairment charges of goodwill or intangible assets, if applicable, are not ongoing costs of doing business. Gains and losses recognized on changes in the fair value of contingent consideration arrangements are accounting adjustments to report contingent consideration liabilities at fair value. These adjustments can be highly variable and are excluded from our assessment of performance because they are considered non-operational in nature and, therefore, are not indicative of current or future performance or ongoing costs of doing business. 45 RECONCILIATION OF ADJUSTED EBITDA For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to operating income (loss) by reportable segment and to net earnings attributable to Match Group, Inc. shareholders for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, see Note 13 to the consolidated and combined financial statements. 46 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The following disclosure is provided to supplement the descriptions of Match Group's accounting policies contained in Note 2 to the consolidated and combined financial statements in regard to significant areas of judgment. Management of the Company is required to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions during the preparation of its consolidated and combined financial statements in accordance with GAAP. These estimates, judgments and assumptions impact the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Because of the size of the financial statement elements to which they relate, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more significant impact on our consolidated and combined financial statements than others. What follows is a discussion of some of our more significant accounting policies and estimates. Business Combinations The purchase price of each acquisition is attributed to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the date of acquisition, including identifiable intangible assets that either arise from a contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. The fair value of these intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management. The excess purchase price over the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets is recorded as goodwill. In connection with some business combinations, the Company has entered into contingent consideration arrangements that are included in the determination of the purchase price. Each of these arrangements is recorded at its fair value at the time of the acquisition and reflected at current fair value for each subsequent reporting period thereafter until settled. The contingent consideration arrangements are generally based upon earnings performance and/or operating metrics such as monthly active users. The Company determines the fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements by using probability-weighted analyses to determine the amounts of the gross liability, and, if the arrangement is long-term in nature, applying a discount rate that appropriately captures the risk associated with the obligation to determine the net amount reflected in the financial statements. Determining the fair value of these arrangements is inherently difficult and subjective. Significant changes in forecasted earnings or operating metrics would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement and can have a material impact on our consolidated and combined financial statements. The changes in the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration arrangements each reporting period, including the accretion of the discount, if applicable, are recognized in General and administrative expense in the accompanying consolidated and combined statement of operations. See Note 7 for a discussion of contingent consideration arrangements. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of the Company's acquired trade names and trademarks, are assessed annually for impairment as of October 1 or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. The 2015, 2014 and 2013 annual assessments identified no material impairments. The value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that is subject to annual assessment for impairment is $1.3 billion and $243.7 million , respectively, at December 31, 2015. The Company has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. The Company elected to forgo the option to qualitatively assess the goodwill of its two reporting units, Dating and Non-dating, as of October 1, 2015 and determined the fair value of each reporting unit. For the Company's annual goodwill test at October 1, 2014, a qualitative assessment of the Non-dating reporting unit's goodwill was performed. It was determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying value based primarily on valuations of the reporting unit that were prepared immediately prior to October 1, 2014, in August and September 2014. For the Dating reporting unit, the Company elected to forgo the option to qualitatively assess goodwill and determined the fair value as of October 1, 2014. As of October 1, 2015, the fair value of each of the Company's reporting units exceeds its carrying values by more than 20%. When the Company elects to perform a qualitative assessment and concludes it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, no further assessment of that reporting unit's goodwill is necessary; otherwise, goodwill must be tested for impairment using a two-step process. The first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of each of the Company's reporting units to its carrying value, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit using both an income approach based on discounted cash flows ("DCF") and a market approach. Determining fair value using a DCF analysis requires the exercise of significant judgment with respect to several items, including judgment about the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and appropriate discount rates. The expected cash flows used in the DCF analyses are based on the Company's most recent budget and, for years beyond the budget, the Company's estimates, which are based, in part, on forecasted growth rates. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows of the respective reporting units. Assumptions used in the DCF analyses, including the discount rate, are assessed annually based on the reporting units' current results and forecast, as well as macroeconomic and industry 47 Table of Contents specific factors. The discount rate used in the Company's annual goodwill impairment assessment was 12% in 2015 and 16% in 2014. Determining fair value using a market approach considers multiples of financial metrics based on both acquisitions and trading multiples of a selected peer group of companies. From the comparable companies, a representative market multiple is determined which is applied to financial metrics to estimate the fair value of a reporting unit. To determine a peer group of companies for our respective reporting units, we considered companies relevant in terms of consumer use, monetization model, margin and growth characteristics and brand strength operating in their respective sectors. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its carrying value to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. If the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Any impairment charge that might result in the future would be determined based upon the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value using the second step of the impairment analysis that is described above but, in any event, would not be expected to be lower than the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit over its fair value. A primary driver in the DCF valuation analyses and the determination of the fair values of the Company's reporting units is the estimate of future revenue and profitability. Generally, the Company would expect an impairment if forecasted revenue and profitability are no longer expected to be achieved and as a result, the carrying value of a reporting unit(s) exceeds its fair value. This assessment would be based, in part, upon the performance of its businesses relative to budget, the Company's assessment of macroeconomic factors, industry and competitive dynamics and the strategies of its businesses in response to these factors. While the Company also has the option to qualitatively assess whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value, the Company's policy is to determine the fair value of each of its indefinite-lived intangible assets annually as of October 1. The Company determines the fair values of its indefinite-lived intangible assets using avoided royalty DCF valuation analyses. Significant judgments inherent in these analyses include the selection of appropriate royalty and discount rates and estimating the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets. The royalty rates used in the DCF analyses are based upon an estimate of the royalty rates that a market participant would pay to license the Company's trade names and trademarks. Assumptions used in the avoided royalty DCF analyses, including the discount rate and royalty rate, are assessed annually based on the actual and projected cash flows related to the asset, as well as macroeconomic and industry specific factors. The discount rates used in the Company's annual indefinite-lived impairment assessment ranged from 11% to 16% in 2015 and 10% to 20% in 2014, and the royalty rates used ranged from 3% to 7% in both 2015 and 2014. Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets We review the carrying value of all long-lived assets, comprising property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. The carrying value of property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets is $80.8 million at December 31, 2015. Income Taxes We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently difficult and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. At December 31, 2015, the Company has unrecognized tax benefits of $26.2 million, including interest. Changes to reserves from period to period and differences between amounts paid, if any, upon resolution of issues raised in audits and amounts previously provided may be material. Differences between the reserves for income tax contingencies and the amounts owed by the Company are recorded in the period they become known. 48 Table of Contents The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method, and deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying values of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance is provided on deferred tax assets if it is determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. As of December 31, 2015, the balance of deferred tax liabilities, net, is $23.2 million. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, state income tax apportionment or the outcome of any review of our tax returns by the various tax authorities, as well as actual operating results of the Company that vary significantly from anticipated results. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense reflected in our consolidated and combined statement of operations consists of expense related to the Company's stock options and RSUs, equity instruments denominated in shares of subsidiaries, and IAC denominated stock options, RSUs and PSUs held by Match Group employees. As disclosed in Note 12 to the consolidated and combined financial statements, the Company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and, for those with a market condition, a lattice model. For stock options, including subsidiary denominated equity, the value of the stock option is measured at the grant date at fair value and expensed over the vesting term. The impact on stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2015, assuming a 1% increase in the risk-free interest rate, a 10% increase in the volatility factor and a one year increase in the weighted average expected term of the outstanding options would be an increase of $2.2 million, $9.9 million and $6.2 million, respectively. The Company also issues RSUs. For RSUs issued, the value of the instrument is measured at the grant date as the fair value of Match Group common stock and expensed as stock-based compensation expense over the vesting term. Prior to the IPO, the equity awards that relate to the Company's common stock or the common stock of certain of our subsidiaries were settleable in shares of IAC common stock having a value equal to the difference between the exercise price and the fair market value of our common stock or that of the relevant subsidiary at the date of exercise. Upon completion of the IPO, the options that relate to the Company's common stock have been adjusted in accordance with their terms to provide that the awards are exercisable for shares of our common stock, and the equity awards that relate to these subsidiaries provide that the awards are settleable, at IACs election, in shares of IAC common stock or in shares of the Company's common stock. To the extent shares of IAC common stock are issued in settlement of these awards, the Company will reimburse IAC for the cost of those shares by issuing to IAC additional shares of our common stock. Therefore, the number of shares issued by the Company to settle these awards will be the same whether issued to IAC as reimbursement or directly to equity award holders. The aggregate number of Match Group common shares that would have been required to settle these interests at estimated fair values on December 31, 2015, including vested and unvested interests (and without giving effect to the withholding of shares to cover withholding taxes), is 18.2 million shares (the substantial majority of which relate to Tinder). The number of shares ultimately needed to settle these awards can vary from the estimated number as a result both of movements in our stock price and a determination of fair value of the relevant subsidiary that is different than our estimate. Assuming no change in the value of the Companys common stock, if the fair value of these subsidiaries were 10% higher or lower than the Companys December 31, 2015 fair value estimate, the number of shares required to settle these awards would increase or decrease by 2.4 million shares. Assuming no change in the estimated fair value of these subsidiaries, if the Companys stock price were 10% higher or lower the number of shares required to settle these awards would decrease by 1.7 million shares and increase by 2.0 million shares, respectively. Marketable Securities and Long-term Investments At December 31, 2015, marketable securities consist of an equity security. Long-term investments include three cost method investments. Marketable securities are adjusted to fair value each quarter, and the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity. The specific-identification method is used to determine the cost of securities sold and the amount of unrealized gains and losses reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings. Additionally, the Company evaluates its cost method investments for indicators of impairment on a quarterly basis, and recognizes an impairment loss if the decline in value is deemed to be other-than-temporary. Future events may result in reconsideration of the nature of losses as other-than-temporary and market and other factors may cause the value of our investments to decline. The Company employs a methodology that considers available evidence in evaluating potential other-than-temporary impairments of its investments. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value below the cost basis is determined to be other-than-temporary. Such impairment evaluations include, but are not limited to: the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the cost basis, the current business environment, including competition; going 49 Table of Contents concern considerations such as financial condition, the rate at which the investee utilizes cash and the investee's ability to obtain additional financing to achieve its business plan; the need for changes to the investee's existing business model due to changing business and regulatory environments and its ability to successfully implement necessary changes; and comparable valuations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated and combined financial statements. 50