Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 26 and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" beginning on page 54. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "IAC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. History Since its inception, IAC has transformed itself from a hybrid media/electronic retailing company into an internet company. IAC was incorporated in July 1986 in Delaware under the name Silver King Broadcasting Company, Inc., as a subsidiary of Home Shopping Network, Inc. In December 1992, Home Shopping Network distributed the capital stock of Silver King to its stockholders. In December 1996, the Company completed mergers with Savoy Pictures Entertainment, Inc. and Home Shopping Network, with Savoy and Home Shopping Network becoming subsidiaries of Silver King. In connection with these mergers, the Company changed its name to HSN, Inc. The Company acquired a controlling interest in Ticketmaster Group, Inc. in 1997 and the remaining interest in 1998. In 1998, upon the purchase of USA Networks and Studios USA from Universal Studios, Inc., the Company was renamed USA Networks, Inc. From 1999 through 2001, the Company acquired Hotel Reservations Network (later renamed Hotels.com), Match.com and other smaller e-commerce companies. In 2001, the Company sold USA Broadcasting to Univision Communications, Inc. In February 2002, the Company acquired a controlling stake in Expedia.com. In May 2002, after contributing its entertainment assets to Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, or VUE, a joint venture then controlled by Vivendi, the Company changed its name to USA Interactive. In September 2002, the Company acquired Interval International. In 2003, the Company acquired the minority interests in its former public subsidiaries, Expedia.com, Hotels.com and Ticketmaster, and acquired a number of other companies, including Entertainment Publications, Inc. ("EPI"), LendingTree and Hotwire. The Company changed its name to InterActiveCorp in June 2003 and to IAC/InterActiveCorp in July 2004. On August 9, 2005, IAC completed the separation of its travel and travel-related businesses and investments into an independent public company. In this report, we refer to this transaction as the "Expedia spin-off" and to the company that holds the travel and travel-related businesses formerly held by IAC as "Expedia". Immediately prior to the Expedia spin-off, IAC effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. IAC also completed the following transactions in 2005: the acquisition of IAC Search & Media (formerly known as Ask Jeeves, Inc.), the results of operations of which are now reported within our Search (formerly Media & Advertising) segment (July 2005), a transaction with NBC Universal in 1 Table of Contents which IAC sold its common and preferred interests in VUE (June 2005) and the acquisition of Cornerstone Brands, Inc. ("Cornerstone Brands") (April 2005). In November 2006, IAC sold PRC, LLC, its Teleservices subsidiary. In June 2007, the Company sold its German TV and internet retailer, HSE Germany. In June 2008, the Company sold EPI and on August 20, 2008, IAC completed its previously announced plan to separate into five publicly traded companies: IAC, which includes: the businesses comprising its Media & Advertising (now Search) segment; the Match and ServiceMagic segments; the businesses comprising its Emerging Businesses (now Media & Other) segment, including Shoebuy and ReserveAmerica, which were previously included in the former Retailing and Ticketmaster segments, respectively; and certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates. HSN, Inc. ("HSNi"), which then included HSN TV, HSN.com and the Cornerstone Brands portfolio of catalogs, websites and retail locations; Interval Leisure Group, Inc. ("ILG"), which then included the businesses that comprised the former Interval segment; Ticketmaster, which then included Ticketmaster's primary domestic and international operations, as well as certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates; and Tree.com, Inc. ("Tree.com"), which then included the businesses that comprised the former Lending and Real Estate segments. We refer to this transaction as the "Spin-Off". Immediately following the Spin-Off, IAC effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. In January 2009, we sold ReserveAmerica and acquired MarketHardware, Inc., an online provider of marketing solutions for home services businesses. In June 2009, we sold the European operations of Match.com to Meetic, a leading European online dating company based in France, in exchange for a 27% interest in Meetic and a 5 million note. In July 2009, we acquired PeopleMedia, a leading operator of targeted dating sites. In February 2010, we announced the formation of joint venture between Match.com and Meetic, through which we intend to provide personals services in certain countries in Latin America. For additional information concerning certain of these transactions, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 16". EQUITY OWNERSHIP AND VOTING CONTROL IAC has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and Class B common stock, with ten votes per share and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of the date of this report, Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty") owns 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and no longer owns any shares of IAC common stock. Assuming the conversion of all of the outstanding shares of Class B common stock to common stock, Liberty would own approximately 11% of IAC's outstanding common stock. Subject to the terms of an amended and restated stockholders agreement, dated as of August 9, 2005, between Liberty and Mr. Diller, Mr. Diller has an irrevocable proxy to vote shares of IAC common stock and IAC Class B common stock held by Liberty. As of the date of this report, 2 Table of Contents Mr. Diller (through his own holdings and the Class B common stock holdings of Liberty over which Mr. Diller has voting control pursuant to the amended and restated stockholders agreement) controlled approximately 57% of the outstanding total voting power of IAC. Accordingly, Mr. Diller is effectively able to control the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of IAC's stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of IAC common stock of 25% of the members of IAC's Board of Directors and matters as to which Delaware law requires a separate class vote). In addition, pursuant to an amended and restated governance agreement, dated as of August 9, 2005, among IAC, Liberty and Mr. Diller, Mr. Diller generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the amended and restated governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous 12-month period. DESCRIPTION OF IAC BUSINESSES Search Overview Our Search segment consists primarily of Ask.com and other destination search websites through which we provide search and related advertising services, as well as toolbars and applications through which we promote and distribute these services, and Citysearch, a leading online local city guide. Search Business Overview. Search services generally involve the generation and display of a set of hyperlinks to websites, together with summary information regarding these websites, deemed relevant to search queries entered by users. We provide search services to users who visit our Ask.com and other destination search websites and portals directly, through toolbars that we distribute to users directly and through third parties and through the syndication of our search results via search boxes placed on third party websites. Substantially all of the revenue of our search business and our Search segment is derived from the display of paid listings and other advertising in connection with the provision of search services. Display of Paid Listings and Other Advertising. In addition to algorithmic search results, paid listings are also generally displayed in response to search queries. Paid listings are advertisements displayed on search results pages in response to search queries that contain advertiser-selected keywords. A paid listing is a short textual unit containing a link to the website of an advertiser that purchased the relevant keyword(s). The advertiser generally pays a fixed fee every time a user clicks on the paid listing. A substantial majority of the paid listings we display are supplied to us by Google pursuant to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on December 31, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we transmit search queries to Google, which in turn transmits a set of relevant and responsive paid listings back to us for display in search results. This ad-serving process occurs independently of, but concurrently with, the generation of algorithmic search results for the same search queries. Google paid listings are displayed separately from our algorithmic search results and are identified as "sponsored" listings on search results pages. To a lesser extent, we also syndicate Google paid listings through third parties with whom we enter into syndication agreements. See "Item 1ARisk FactorsWe depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse changes in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations." In addition, we sell paid listings directly to advertisers and display them on third party and various IAC properties, as well as sell display advertising on our portals and other IAC properties. 3 Table of Contents Toolbars and Applications. Through Mindspark Interactive Network, Inc. ("Mindspark"), we develop, market and distribute a variety of downloadable toolbars through which users can access our search services, as well as applications through which users creatively and visually express themselves and interact online, which we generally refer to as our FunWebProducts suite of applications. We market and distribute our toolbars, together with the FunWebProducts suite of applications, directly to consumers. These toolbars, which we offer free of charge, generally consist of a search box powered by Ask.com or a third party search engine, plus the FunWebProducts suite of additional features. The search box enables users to run search queries directly from their web browser and the suite of features enables users to personalize their online activities and otherwise make them more expressive and fun. These features include, among other applications: Smiley Central , through which users can add emoticons to e-mails and instant messages; Webfetti , through which users can personalize their pages on various social networking websites; MyWebFace , through which users can create cartoon-like images of themselves for download or use in connection with their profile pages on social networks; and Zwinky , through which users can create avatars to express their persona on the web and design and update profile pages to share with friends. Zwinky also provides users with access to Zwinktopia , a virtual world where avatars created by users can interact through chat and other features, as well as purchase virtual items with virtual currency online. We also market and distribute our toolbars through the Ask Partner Network to third parties, who in turn bundle our toolbars with their applications and websites. Destinations Sites and Portals. We also operate a number of destination websites and portals through which we provide search and additional services, including: Dictionary.com , a destination website that provides online dictionary search and related services; Girlsense.com , a destination website that provides a virtual fashion community for girls and teens; www.MyWay.com , which is free from banner, pop-up and rich-media ads and through which we provide e-mail services; www.Excite.com , a content-rich portal that aggregates news, sports, weather and entertainment content; and www.iWon.com , which offers an extensive variety of casual games and sweepstakes. Revenues. Substantially all of the revenues of our search business and the Search segment are derived from advertising, with the substantial majority of these revenues attributable to our paid listing supply agreement with Google. When a user submits a search query through our search services and clicks on a Google paid listing displayed in response to the query, Google bills the advertiser that purchased the paid listing directly and makes a related revenue share payment to us, which we either retain in its entirety or share with third parties. In some cases, Google does not charge advertisers unless our user, after clicking on the paid listing, also takes certain actions on the advertiser's website. To a lesser extent, we also generate revenues from the direct sale of paid listings directly to advertisers on a cost-per-click basis, as well as from the sale of display advertising on a fixed fee per impression basis. Competition. We compete with a wide variety of parties in connection with our efforts to attract search engine users, distribute downloadable toolbars and applications, attract third parties to distribute our toolbars and search boxes and attract advertisers, including: Google, Yahoo!, MSN and other destination search websites and search-centric portals (some of which provide a broad range of content and services and/or link to various desktop applications), third party toolbar, convenience search and applications providers, other search technology and convenience service providers, including internet access providers, social networks, online advertising networks, traditional media companies and companies that provide online content. Moreover, some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases, and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they have the ability to devote comparatively greater resources to the development and promotion of their products and services, which could result in greater market acceptance of their products and services relative to those offered by us. 4 Table of Contents We believe that our ability to compete successfully in the search business will depend primarily upon the following factors: the relevance and authority of our search results and other content; and the functionality of our various websites and the quality of related content and features, as well as the attractiveness of our services generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors. In the case of the relevance and authority of our search results, our current goal is to provide accurate and authoritative answers to queries phrased in the form of direct questions, which we seek to achieve through a combination of search results generated by our proprietary search technology and answers provided by our users to frequently asked questions. In the case of the functionality of our various websites and the quality of related content and features, we seek to differentiate ourselves from other search service providers through the following features: Dedicated Search Channels in addition to traditional, general internet searches, users may conduct searches on separate channels dedicated to news, images, videos, recipes, coupons and bargains, among other categories of activities and interests; Related and Suggested Search users entering search queries are simultaneously presented with a list of suggested search queries and related search topics; and Ask Eraser users who enter search queries on our Ask.com destination search websites may elect to activate this feature, which deletes from our servers search queries and related "cookie" and other information used to track internet activity. In addition, we believe that our ability to compete successfully in the case of our Mindspark business will depend primarily upon our continued ability to create toolbars that resonate with consumers, market and distribute toolbars directly to consumers in a cost-effective manner and secure cost-effective toolbar distribution arrangements with third parties and through other means, as well attract advertisers. Citysearch Overview. Citysearch is a leading online local guide that provides consumer users with information regarding businesses and events in cities and neighborhoods across the U.S. Citysearch also operates CityGrid, a local content and advertising network. Through Citysearch.com , we provide consumer users with free access to our merchant listings, which consist of business profile pages that contain customized content provided by our merchants, coupled with ratings and reviews posted by Citysearch users, Citysearch-generated editorial content and related features, such as links to maps and directions. Consumer users may access merchant listings directly or through search engine results at Citysearch.com by selecting a city and/or neighborhood and searching through keyword and category-specific queries or otherwise browsing Citysearch.com . After accessing a merchant listing, users can post ratings and reviews regarding the business, as well as forward the information to others via e-mail or via text message to mobile devices. We also distribute our merchant listings (or select information from such listings) through CityGrid to third party publishers for display to users on the third party publishers' websites and mobile applications. Through CityGrid, we also aggregate advertising from multiple third parties (and in some cases, combine this advertising with Citysearch merchant listings and/or other content), which we then either display on Citysearch.com or distribute to CityGrid third party publisher websites and mobile applications. Merchant Advertising. We provide primarily local advertising services to merchants through several online advertising models. We sell the substantial majority of our advertising to local merchants through our Pay-For-Performance model. Under this model, merchants pay a fee each time their merchant 5 Table of Contents listing (or select information from such listing) is viewed by a user on Citysearch.com or a CityGrid third party publisher website or mobile application, a user clicks on a link to additional merchant information displayed as part of their merchant listing on Citysearch.com or a CityGrid third party publisher website or mobile application or a user calls a metered number to reach a business. Marketing. We market our services to users primarily through search engines. We market our products and services to local merchants and other advertisers primarily through in-house and outside local sales forces in major metropolitan areas within the United States, as well as through our online self-enrollment model. Revenues. Revenues are generated primarily through the sale of advertising, predominantly local, Pay-For-Performance advertising, directly to merchants. When merchant listings are displayed on third party websites or mobile applications affiliated with CityGrid, we share the related revenues that we receive from our merchants with the relevant third party. Revenues are also generated through the display of advertising that we receive from third parties affiliated with CityGrid. If we display this advertising on Citysearch.com , the third party shares the related revenues that it receives from its clients with us. If we then distribute this advertising to a CityGrid third party publisher, we share revenues received from the third party that provided us with the advertising with the third party to which we distributed such advertising. Revenues are also generated through our sale of local merchant and national display advertising on a per impression and fixed fee basis. Competition. The markets for local content, local services and local advertising are highly competitive and diverse. While we primarily compete with online and offline local and national directories, we currently face increasing competition from search engines and other site aggregation companies that pull content from Citysearch.com for display on their websites (as well as other destination websites generally), which adversely impacts our ability to monetize this content and interferes with search engine marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to Citysearch.com . We also compete with online advertising networks, online and offline providers of local content, telecommunications and cable companies, internet service providers and niche competitors that focus on a specific category or geography and compete with specific content offerings that we provide. Match Overview Through the brands and businesses within our Match segment, we are a leading provider of subscription-based online personals services in the United States and various jurisdictions abroad. We provide these services through websites that we own and operate in twenty-five countries, eight languages and five continents, as well as through our mobile application in the United States. As of December 31, 2009, we collectively provided online personals services to approximately 1.3 million subscribers. In June 2009, we sold the European operations of Match.com to Meetic, a leading European online dating company based in France, in exchange for a 27% interest in Meetic and a 5 million note. In July 2009, we acquired PeopleMedia, a leading operator of targeted dating sites. In February 2010, we announced the formation of joint venture between Match.com and Meetic, through which we intend to provide personals services in certain countries in Latin America. Products and Services We primarily provide services through branded websites that we own and operate, including, among others, Match.com , Chemistry.com , BlackPeopleMeet.com and SeniorPeopleMeet.com . These websites, all of which provide single adults with a private and convenient environment for meeting other singles, generally provide online personal services to registered members and subscribers. 6 Table of Contents Registered members (those who establish a username and password) may post a profile on these websites, as well as use any related searching and matching tools free of charge. Subscribers (those who establish a username and password and pay a subscription fee) may, in addition to these services, initiate, review or respond to e-mails from other subscribers. Our subscription programs start with a single-month term, with discounts for longer term subscriptions, and generally renew automatically unless terminated by subscribers. In the United States, we also offer access to our services via mobile phone and other mobile devices through our matchMobile service. Marketing We market our products and services through a wide variety of traditional offline and online marketing. Our offline marketing activities consist of a wide variety of traditional marketing and business development activities, including television, print, radio and outdoor advertising and related public relations efforts. Our online marketing activities consist primarily of the purchase of banner and other display advertising, targeted e-mail campaigns and search engine marketing. In addition, we enter into a variety of alliances with third parties who advertise and promote our services. Some alliances are exclusive and some, but not all, contain renewal provisions. Revenues Our revenues are derived from subscription fees for our online personals services and related products and online advertising. Competition The personals business is very competitive and highly fragmented in the United States and abroad and barriers to entry are minimal. We compete primarily with online and offline broad-based personals, dating and matchmaking services (both free and paid), the personals sections of newspapers and magazines, other conventional media companies that provide personals services, and traditional venues where singles meet (both online and offline). We also compete with numerous online and offline personals, dating and matchmaking services that cater to specific demographic groups. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size and diversity of our registered member and subscriber bases relative to those of our competitors; the functionality of our websites and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors; how quickly we can enhance our existing technology and services and/or develop new features, products and services in response to: new, emerging and rapidly changing technologies; the introduction of product and service offerings by our competitors; evolving industry standards; and changes in consumer requirements and trends in the single community relative to our competitors; and our ability to engage in cost-effective marketing efforts, including by way of maintaining relationships with third parties with which we have entered into alliances, and the recognition and strength of our various brands relative to those of our competitors. 7 Table of Contents ServiceMagic Overview ServiceMagic is a leading online marketplace that connects consumers, by way of patented proprietary technologies, with home and other local service professionals, all of which are pre-screened and the majority of which are customer-rated. When consumers submit a service request through the ServiceMagic marketplace, ServiceMagic generally matches them with up to four members from its network of service professionals, which as of December 31, 2009, consisted of more than 67,000 service professionals providing services in more than 700 categories, primarily home service-related, ranging from simple home repairs to complete home building and home remodeling projects, as well as other local services, including catering and photography. Services Through our Market Match service, we generally match consumers with up to four service professionals from our network based upon service requests that specify the type of services desired and the consumer's zip code. Through our Exact Match service, consumers can review service professional profiles and select the service professional that they believe best meets their specific needs. Through Exact Match , we also optimize the placement of service professional profiles in a wide range of marketing vehicles, including the results of local and other search engines and online and offline directories. Our Exact Match service provides a way for service professionals to get broad exposure for their businesses online without having to pay significant up-front fees, build and maintain their own destination websites or develop online marketing expertise. Consumers can also be matched to a service professional by way of 1800Contractor.com , an online directory of our network of service professionals that we own and operate. Consumers that visit this site are ultimately matched to a service professional by way of our Exact Match service or, if a match cannot be made through this service, by way of our Market Match service. We also offer website design and hosting services for our service professionals through Market Hardware, Inc. In all cases, if a match is made through our services, consumers are under no obligation to work with the service professional referred by ServiceMagic. In addition, if we are unable to match a consumer with a service professional from our network, we may provide the consumer with contact information concerning service professionals outside of our network. In addition to our matching services, consumers may also access our online library of service-related resources, which primarily include articles about home improvement, repair and maintenance, and related tools to assist consumers with the research, planning and management of their projects, and general advice for working with service professionals. Marketing We market our services to consumers primarily through search engine marketing, as well as through affiliate agreements with third parties. Pursuant to these agreements, third parties agree to advertise and promote our services on their websites and we agree to pay them a fixed fee when visitors from their websites click through to our website (on a cost-per-click basis) or submit a valid service request through our website (on a cost-per-acquisition basis). We also market our services to consumers through the purchase of paid listings displayed in yellow page directories, portals and contextual home improvement related sites and, to a lesser extent, through traditional offline advertising. We market our services to service professionals through our sales force, which obtains information concerning service professionals through a variety of sources. We also promote online enrollment in our network through search engine marketing, relationships with trade associations and affiliate marketing relationships. 8 Table of Contents Revenues Our revenues are generated from fees paid by members of our network of service professionals for consumer leads (net of amounts paid to affiliates, where applicable), regardless of whether the service professional that received the lead ultimately provides the requested service, as well as from one-time fees charged upon enrollment and activation of new service professionals in our network. Lead fees vary based upon the service requested, with fees for leads generated through our Exact Match service being greater than those for leads generated through our Market Match service. Competition We currently compete with other service-related lead generation services, primarily home service-related services, as well as with internet directories and local advertising, including radio, direct marketing campaigns, yellow pages, newspapers and other offline directories. We also compete with local and national retailers of home improvement products that offer or promote installation services. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size, quality (as determined, in part, by reference to our pre-screening efforts and customer ratings and reviews), diversity and stability of our network of service professionals and the quality of services provided by these professionals; our continued ability to deliver consumer leads that convert into revenues for our network of service professionals in a cost-effective manner; and the functionality of our websites and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers and service professionals, as well as our ability to introduce new products and services that resonate with consumers and service professionals. Media & Other Businesses Our Media & Other segment currently consists primarily of Shoebuy, Pronto, Connected Ventures, Evite, Gifts.com, InstantAction.com, The Daily Beast and Electus. Shoebuy, a leading internet retailer of footwear and related apparel and accessories, generally acts as an agent in connection with the purchase of merchandise through its various websites, passing purchases made by customers through its various websites on to the relevant vendors for fulfillment and shipping. Pronto owns and operates Pronto.com, a leading comparison search engine, through which consumers can search and compare prices for a wide range of merchandise offered by online retailers. In many instances, Pronto.com has entered into agreements with these merchants to prominently display their products in response to consumer searches. In exchange, these merchants agree to pay a fee when Pronto.com users click through to merchant websites. Gifts.com is a leading gift recommendation site, offering consumers gift ideas and interactive, personalized shopping services. Gifts.com combines editorial sourcing with its proprietary personality-based gift finder to deliver relevant and unbiased gift options to users. Evite is a free online invitation and social event planning service that also offers party ideas, planning checklists and other tools. Connected Ventures is a new media network and development company that operates CollegeHumor Media, a leading online entertainment company targeting a core audience of young males ages eighteen to twenty-four, Notional, a production company specializing in the creation of video content for all distribution platforms, and BustedTees.com, an online t-shirt retailer targeting the CollegeHumor Media demographic. Electus is a multimedia company that seeks to enable media content creators to engage with advertising and technology partners at the inception of the creative process and partner on the finished product across a global and multi-platform distribution model. InstantAction is a gaming platform that creates and distributes three-dimensional, multi-player console-like games playable online to registered users for a fee. The Daily Beast is a website dedicated 9 Table of Contents to news and commentary, culture and entertainment that curates and provides existing online content and new works from its own roster of contributors to users free of charge. In the case of the Media & Other segment, our revenues are generated from online advertising, content production and subscriptions. Employees As of December 31, 2009, IAC and its subsidiaries employed approximately 3,200 employees, most of whom were full-time employees. IAC believes that it generally has good employee relationships, including relationships with employees represented by unions or other similar organizations. Additional Information Company Website and Public Filings. The Company maintains a website at www.iac.com . Neither the information on the Company's website, nor the information on the website of any IAC business, is incorporated by reference in this report, or in any other filings with, or in any information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Code of Ethics. The Company's code of ethics, as amended in April 2009, which applies to all employees, including all executive officers and senior financial officers (including IAC's CFO and Controller), and directors, is posted on the Company's website at www.iac.com/newiaccodeofethics.pdf . The code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K, and any waivers of the code of ethics for IAC's executive officers, directors or senior financial officers, will also be disclosed on IAC's website. Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: IAC's anticipated financial performance, IAC's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which IAC businesses operate, new products, services and related strategies and other similar matters. These forward looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect IAC's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which only reflect the views of IAC management as of the date of this report. IAC does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. 10 Table of Contents Risk Factors Mr. Diller currently controls IAC. If Mr. Diller ceases to control IAC, Liberty Media Corporation may effectively control IAC. Subject to the terms of an amended and restated stockholders agreement between Mr. Diller and Liberty, Mr. Diller has an irrevocable proxy to vote shares of IAC common stock and IAC Class B common stock held by Liberty. Accordingly, as of the date of this report, Mr. Diller effectively controls the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of IAC stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of IAC common stock of 25% of the members of IAC's Board of Directors and matters as to which Delaware law requires a separate class vote). Upon Mr. Diller's permanent departure from IAC, the irrevocable proxy terminates and, depending upon the capitalization of IAC at such time, Liberty may effectively control the voting power of the capital stock of IAC through its ownership of IAC Class B common stock. In addition, under an amended and restated governance agreement among IAC, Liberty and Mr. Diller, Mr. Diller generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds 4:1 over a continuous 12-month period. While Mr. Diller may not currently exercise this right, no assurances can be given that this right will not be triggered in the future, and if so, that Mr. Diller will consent to any of the limited matters at such time, in which case IAC would not be able to engage in transactions or take actions covered by this consent right. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interests and voting power (and Liberty's ownership interests and voting power), Mr. Diller currently is (and upon Mr. Diller's permanent departure from IAC in the future, Liberty may be) in a position to control or influence significant corporate actions, including without limitation, corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets and determinations with respect to IAC's significant business direction and policies. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to IAC, which could adversely affect the market price of IAC securities. Furthermore, given this concentrated control, IAC currently falls within the definition of a "Controlled Company" within the meaning of The Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market (the "Marketplace Rules"). As a Controlled Company, IAC is permitted, and has elected, to opt out of certain corporate governance requirements in the Marketplace Rules applicable to non-controlled companies, specifically, those that would otherwise require: (i) IAC's Board of Directors to have a majority of "independent" directors (within the meaning of the Marketplace Rules) and (ii) nominations to IAC's Board of Directors to be selected, or recommended for selection, either by a nominating committee comprised entirely of independent directors or by a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, IAC stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Marketplace Rules. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon the continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of senior management, particularly Barry Diller, the Chairman and CEO of IAC, being especially critical to our success. If Mr. Diller no longer serves in, or serves in some lesser capacity than, his current role, our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the market price of IAC securities, could be adversely affected. Competition for well-qualified employees across IAC and its various businesses is intense, and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of Mr. Diller, other members of senior management or any other key 11 Table of Contents employees in the future. Mr. Diller does not have an employment agreement with IAC, though he owns approximately 4.3 million shares of IAC common stock, and holds unvested options to purchase approximately 1.8 million shares of IAC common stock, all of which vest in June 2010 and expire in June 2015. We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse changes in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on December 31, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, Google sells paid listings directly to advertisers, which we in turn display and syndicate in response to user search queries that contain keywords selected and purchased by advertisers through Google. In exchange for making our search traffic available to Google, we receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listings supplied to us. The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements and the efficiency of Google's system in attracting advertisers and serving up relevant paid listings in response to queries. In addition, our revenue will be impacted by the effectiveness (in terms of ultimately generating revenue for Google's advertisers) of clicks from users of our search services. If Google's performance were to deteriorate for any reason or if our traffic fails to generate revenue for Google's advertisers, revenues we receive from Google pursuant to the paid listing supply agreement would decrease, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our paid listing supply agreement requires that we establish guidelines to govern certain activities of certain third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings, specifically, the manner in which these parties drive search traffic to their websites and display Google paid listings within search results. Noncompliance with these requirements could, if not cured, result in the imposition of additional restrictions on our ability to syndicate paid listings and would give Google the right to terminate the paid listing supply agreement. The termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If this were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if so, the terms of the agreements and the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenues. General economic events or trends that reduce advertising spending could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to advertising. Accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to events and trends that result in decreased advertising expenditures. Advertising expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, as well as levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Small and local businesses with which we do business are particularly sensitive to these events and trends, given that they are not as well situated to weather the current economic environment as their larger competitors, which are generally better capitalized and have greater access to credit. The continuing adverse economic conditions generally have caused, and we expect that they may continue to cause, decreases and/or delays in both advertising and consumer expenditures, as well as related decreases in queries likely to generate revenue, any of which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our success depends upon the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising, particularly paid listings, as an effective alternative to traditional, offline advertising and the continued commercial use of the internet. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete with traditional media, including television, radio and print, in addition to a multitude of websites with high levels of traffic and online advertising networks, for a share of available advertising expenditures. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising generally will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models, the continued growth in commercial use of the internet (particularly abroad), the extent to which software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being displayed become commonplace and the extent to which the industry is able to effectively manage click fraud. Any lack of growth in the market for online advertising, particularly for paid listings, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. We depend, in part, upon arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into users and customers. We engage in a variety of activities designed to attract traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites, as well as the continued introduction of new and enhanced products and services that resonate with users and customers generally. For example, in an effort to increase traffic to our destination search websites, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to distribute our toolbars and search boxes to users through third parties. These agreements are generally not exclusive, are for a short term and are terminable by either party given notice. Our inability to enter into new (or renew existing) agreements to distribute our toolbars and search boxes through third parties would result in a decrease in traffic to our destination search websites, and in turn related decreases in queries and advertising revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the case of our Match business, we have entered into a number of arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our personals websites. Pursuant to these arrangements, third parties generally promote our services on their websites and we pay a fixed fee when visitors to these websites click though to our personals websites. These arrangements are generally not exclusive, are for a short term and are terminable by either party given notice. If existing arrangements with third parties are terminated or are not renewed upon their expiration and we fail to replace this traffic and related revenues, or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with third parties in response to industry trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the case of our ServiceMagic business, our ability to drive traffic depends, in part, on the nature and number of the third party service professionals who are members of our service provider network. While these professionals are required to agree that they will operate in accordance with our terms and conditions, we do not enter into long term contracts with them. In addition, a significant number of our service professionals are sole proprietorships and small businesses, which are particularly sensitive to economic downturns, constrained liquidity and decreases in consumer spending. As a result, our network of service professionals may experience turnover from time to time, which if significant or recurring over a prolonged basis, could result in a decrease in traffic to ServiceMagic.com and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our destination search and other websites, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users unless we continue to provide quality products and services that resonate with consumers. We may not be able to adapt quickly and/or in cost-effective 13 Table of Contents manner to frequent changes in user and customer requirements, which can be difficult to predict, or appropriately time the introduction of enhancements and/or new products or services to the market. Our inability to provide quality products and services would adversely affect user and customer experiences, which would result in a decrease in traffic to our various websites, lower conversion rates and a related decrease in revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed below, these traffic building and conversion initiatives also involve the expenditure of considerable sums for marketing, as well as for the development and introduction of new services, products and enhancements, infrastructure and other related efforts. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our various websites may not be successful or cost-effective. Traffic building and conversion initiatives involve considerable expenditures for online and offline advertising and marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenditures for search engine marketing (primarily in the form of the purchase of keywords), online display advertising and traditional offline advertising in connection with these initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. In the case of our search engine marketing efforts, our failure to respond successfully to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines could adversely affect the placement of paid listings that appear in response to keywords we purchase, as well as adversely affect the pricing of the online advertising we purchase generally, which would increase our costs. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, users and members is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well in search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of user searches. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our businesses, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related actions by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results (which actions by search service providers may result in algorithmic listings being displayed less prominently within search engine results), could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, which would result in substantial decreases in conversion rates and repeat business, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, any or all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, as discussed above, we also enter into various arrangements with third parties in an effort to increase traffic, which arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue would increase over the long-term. Any such failure to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, traffic, users and customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing industry standards. The e-commerce industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, coupled with frequent and related new service and product introductions and enhancements. The development of new service and product introductions and enhancements in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resources and we may not be able to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to these changes or appropriately time the introduction of new services and products to the market and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents The continued widespread adoption of new internet or telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require us to modify or adapt our services or infrastructures and our failure to do so could render our existing websites, services and proprietary technologies obsolete, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, user and usage volumes on mobile devices continue to increase relative to those of personal computers. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with mobile devices could make the use of our various services through these devices difficult. While we have developed mobile versions of certain of our services, we have limited experience with these applications and they may not be compelling to users. Furthermore, existing agreements across our business may need to be amended to cover the provision of our services on mobile devices, which the counterparties may be unwilling to do. Furthermore, in the case of our search services, third parties have introduced (and continue to introduce) new technologies and applications that may interfere with the ability of our users to access or utilize some of our services generally. For example, third parties have introduced technologies and applications that prevent users from downloading toolbars generally and/or have features that significantly lessen the likelihood that previously downloaded toolbars will remain in active use, such as features that interfere with the functionality of search boxes embedded within our toolbars and the maintenance of settings previously selected by consumers in connection with the downloading of our toolbars. Third parties have also introduced technologies and applications that are either not compatible with (or otherwise interfere with) the "search assistant" function embedded within our toolbars, pursuant to which our toolbars generate search results for users that receive "DNS," "404" and other errors in response to search queries entered into search boxes embedded with our toolbars or the address bar of their web browsers. These technologies and applications adversely impact our ability to generate search queries through our toolbars, which in turns adversely impacts our revenues. Our failure to successfully modify our toolbars in a cost-effective manner in response to the introduction and adoption of these new technologies and applications could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses we acquire may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. To the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and successfully manage acquisition-related strain on the management, operations and financial resources of IAC and/or acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events and/or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We operate in certain international markets in which we have limited experience, and as a result, face additional risks. We may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into existing, international markets. We currently operate in a limited number of jurisdictions abroad and may continue to expand our international presence. In order for our products and services in these jurisdictions to achieve widespread acceptance, commercial use and acceptance of the internet must continue to grow, which growth may occur at slower rates than those experienced in the U.S. Moreover, we must continue to successfully tailor our services to the unique customs and cultures of these jurisdictions, which can be difficult and costly and the failure to do so could slow our international growth. Operating abroad, where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with the establishment of management systems and infrastructures and the staffing of foreign operations, as well as exchange rate fluctuations. Our success in international markets will also depend, in part, on our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, joint venture or other partners, and to enter into arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, given that we could encounter significant barriers to entry in connection with expansion efforts outside of these arrangements. A variety of new and existing U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that are costly to comply with, can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and can subject us to claims or other remedies. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the internet and related technologies. The laws that do reference the internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims have been threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. In addition, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third-party web sites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. The Child Online Protection Act and the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as California's Information Practices Act. We face similar risks and costs as our products and services are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the laws to which we are currently subject are amended or interpreted adversely to our interests, or if new adverse laws are adopted, our products and services might need to be modified to comply with such laws, which would increase our costs and could result in decreased demand for our products and services to the extent that we pass on such costs to consumers. As a result, any changes of this nature could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data in connection with the processing of search queries and consumer transactions. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the respective privacy and data security policies maintained by our various businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. There are currently pending several bills in the U.S. Congress, which if passed could result in more onerous requirements regarding the manner in which certain personally identifiable information and other user data will need to be stored and managed. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our practices or privacy policies of our various businesses or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by these businesses. The failure of any of our businesses, or their various third party vendors and service providers, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, domain names, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and other similar intellectual property, as critical to our success. For example, the businesses within our principal reporting segments, our Search, Match and ServiceMagic reporting segments, rely heavily upon their trademarks (primarily Ask.com , FunWebProducts , Match.com and ServiceMagic.com and related domain names and logos), through which they market their services and seek to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition. So long as these businesses continue to use these trademarks to identify their products and services and renew related trademarks upon their expiration, they will continue to have related trademark protections indefinitely under current trademark laws, rules and regulations. The businesses within our Search segment also rely heavily upon trade secrets, primarily search algorithms through which organic search results are generated. To a lesser extent, these businesses also rely upon patented and patent-pending proprietary technologies and processes, primarily those relating to search-related products and services, with expiration dates for patented technologies ranging from 2017 to 2027, and copyrighted material, primarily emoticons, characters and other content that is incorporated into, and used in connection with the marketing of, downloadable toolbars generally. Our Match segment also relies upon patent-pending proprietary technologies relating to matching process systems and related features, products and services. Our ServiceMagic segment also relies heavily upon trade secrets, primarily the matching algorithm through which members of its network of local service professionals are matched with consumers, as well as related patented proprietary technologies that expire in 2020. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our various intellectual property rights. For example, we have generally registered and continue to apply to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register and renew domain names as we deem appropriate. Effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. We also generally seek to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections as and if we deem appropriate, based on then current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future. No assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against competitors and similar technologies. In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents we own. Despite these precautions, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise or third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our brand names and limitations on our ability to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructure. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our information systems may affect our businesses. To succeed, our systems and infrastructure must perform well on a consistent basis. From time to time, we may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all of our systems or data unavailable or prevent us from providing services, which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, as traffic to our various websites and the related number of users and customers increase and the number of new (and presumably more complex) products and services that we introduce continues to grow, we will need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies generally to facilitate this growth. If we do not do so or if we experience inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with these efforts, third parties with whom we do business may not be able to access our services on an intermittent or prolonged basis and the quality of the user/customer experience could be adversely affected. Moreover, even if we do not encounter any inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with these efforts, third parties with whom we do business may not make the changes to their systems, infrastructure and technology needed in order to access our services on a timely basis, if at all. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on third party computer systems, data centers, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with customers. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our 18 Table of Contents systems or those of our third party providers, or deterioration in the performance of these systems, could impair our ability to provide services and/or process certain transactions with customers. Furthermore, data security breaches (as a result of the actions of hackers or otherwise), fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and other similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, data, broadband or other communications systems at any time. Any event of this nature could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services to users and customers. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. In particular, our destination search websites may be adversely affected by fraudulent, surreptitious or other unwanted computer programs, applications and activity that make changes to users' computers and interfere with overall experience of our services, such as by hijacking queries to these websites or altering or replacing search results generated. This type of interference often occurs without disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with us. These disruptive programs and applications may be difficult or impossible to uninstall or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent efforts to block or remove them. In addition, downloadable toolbars through which we provide search services are also subject to attack by viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, which could jeopardize the security of information stored in users' computer or in our systems and networks. No assurances can be given that our efforts to combat these malicious applications will be successful and/or that our products and services will not have (or will not be perceived to have) vulnerabilities in this regard. If any of these adverse events were to occur, it could damage our reputation and result in the loss of current and potential users and customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and otherwise be costly to remedy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties IAC believes that the facilities for its management and operations are generally adequate for its current and near-term future needs. IAC's facilities, most of which are leased by IAC's businesses in various cities and locations in the United States and jurisdictions abroad, generally consist of executive and administrative offices, operations centers, data centers and sales offices. All of IAC's leases are at prevailing market rates. IAC believes that the duration of each lease is adequate. IAC believes that its principal properties, whether owned or leased, are currently adequate for the purposes for which they are used and are suitably maintained for these purposes. IAC does not anticipate any future problems renewing or obtaining suitable leases for its principal properties. IAC's approximately 202,500 square foot corporate headquarters in New York, New York houses offices for IAC corporate and certain other IAC businesses. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to litigation involving property, personal injury, contract, intellectual property and other claims. The amounts that may be recovered in such matters may be subject to insurance coverage. Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission require the description of material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary, routine litigation incident to the registrant's business, and advise that proceedings ordinarily need not be described if they primarily involve damages claims for amounts 19 Table of Contents (exclusive of interest and costs) not exceeding 10% of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In the judgment of management, none of the pending litigation matters which the Company and its subsidiaries are defending, including those described below, involves or is likely to involve amounts of that magnitude. The litigation matters described below involve issues or claims that may be of particular interest to the Company's shareholders, regardless of whether any of these matters may be material to the financial position or operations of the Company based upon the standard set forth in the SEC's rules. Securities Class Action Litigation against IAC As previously disclosed in a number of the Company's filings on SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q, beginning on September 20, 2004, twelve purported shareholder class actions were commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against IAC and certain of its officers and directors, alleging violations of the federal securities laws. These cases arose out of the Company's August 4, 2004 announcement of its earnings for the second quarter of 2004 and generally alleged that the value of the Company's stock was artificially inflated by pre-announcement statements about its financial results and forecasts that were false and misleading due to the defendants' alleged failure to disclose various problems faced by the Company's travel businesses (which in 2005 were spun off into a separate public company, Expedia, Inc.). On December 20, 2004, the district court consolidated the twelve lawsuits, appointed co-lead plaintiffs, and designated co-lead plaintiffs' counsel. See In re IAC/InterActiveCorp Securities Litigation , No. 04-CV-7447 (S.D.N.Y.). On October 18, 2004, a related shareholder derivative action, Stuart Garber, Derivatively on Behalf of IAC/InterActiveCorp v. Barry Diller et al. , No. 04-603416, was commenced in the Supreme Court of the State of New York (New York County) against certain of IAC's officers and directors. On November 15, 2004, another related shareholder derivative action, Lisa Butler, Derivatively on Behalf of IAC/InterActiveCorp v. Barry Diller et al. , No. 04-CV-9067, was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against certain of IAC's current and former directors. On January 24, 2005, the federal district court consolidated the Butler case with the securities class action for pre-trial purposes only. On February 2, 2005, the defendants in the Garber case removed it from New York state court to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On April 11, 2005, the district court issued a similar consolidation order in respect of the Garber case. On May 20, 2005, the plaintiffs in the federal securities class action filed a consolidated amended complaint. Like its twelve predecessors, the amended complaint generally alleged that the value of the Company's stock was artificially inflated by pre-announcement statements about the Company's financial results and forecasts that were false and misleading due to the defendants' alleged failure to disclose various problems faced by the Company's then travel businesses. The plaintiffs sought to represent a class of shareholders who purchased IAC common stock between March 31, 2003 and August 3, 2004. The defendants were IAC and fourteen current or former officers or directors of the Company or its former Expedia travel business. The complaint purported to assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, as well as Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, and sought damages in an unspecified amount. On July 5, 2005, the plaintiffs in the related shareholder suits filed a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint. The defendants were IAC (as a nominal defendant) and sixteen current or former officers or directors of the Company or its former Expedia travel business. The complaint, which was based upon factual allegations similar to those in the securities class action, purported to assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust enrichment, violation of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, and contribution and indemnification. The complaint sought an order voiding the election of the Company's then current Board of Directors, as 20 Table of Contents well as damages in an unspecified amount, various forms of equitable relief, restitution, and disgorgement of remuneration received by the individual defendants from the Company. On September 15, 2005, IAC and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss both the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suits, which motions the plaintiffs opposed. On October 12, 2006, the court heard oral argument on the motions. On March 22, 2007, the court issued an opinion and order (i) granting the defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint in the securities class action, with leave to replead, and (ii) granting the defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint in the shareholder derivative suits, with prejudice. On April 24, 2007, the plaintiffs in the shareholder derivative suits filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from the district court's order of dismissal. On consent of the parties, the appeal has been withdrawn from active consideration by the court of appeals. In addition, the plaintiffs have stipulated that they will abandon their appeal if the district court dismisses with prejudice the second amended complaint in the securities class action (described below). On May 15, 2007, the plaintiffs in the securities class action filed a second amended complaint. The new pleading continues to allege that the defendants failed to disclose material information concerning problems at the Company's then-travel businesses and to assert the same legal claims as its predecessor. On August 15, 2007, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, which motion the plaintiffs have opposed. The motion remains pending. The Company believes that the claims in the class action and the derivative suits lack merit and will continue to defend vigorously against them. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders There were no matters submitted to a vote of any of the Company's security holders during the fourth quarter of 2009. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters IAC common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, or "NASDAQ", under the ticker symbol "IACI". There is no established public trading market for IAC Class B common stock. The table below sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share for IAC common stock as reported on NASDAQ. High and low sales prices per share of IAC common stock have been adjusted to reflect the impact of the one-for-two reverse stock split of IAC's common stock and the Spin-Off, both of which were completed following the close of trading on August 20, 2008. The adjusted stock prices were determined by multiplying historical prices (pre-adjustment) by 0.43636 and multiplying the product by two to give effect to the reverse stock split effected immediately following the completion of the Spin-Off. The factor applied to historical prices (0.43636) is equal to (i) $7.68, which is equal to $17.60 (the closing price of IAC common stock in the regular way market on August 20, 2008) less $9.92 (the combined value of HSNi, ILG, Ticketmaster and Tree.com), divided by (ii) $17.60. The combined value of the spun-off entities is equal to (i) one-fifth of the respective closing prices of each of HSNi, ILG and Ticketmaster ($12.61, $14.12 and $21.64) plus (ii) one-thirtieth of the closing price of Tree.com ($7.42), in each case, in the when-issued trading market on August 20, 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 20.97 $ 18.70 Third Quarter 21.28 15.58 Second Quarter 17.15 14.85 First Quarter 16.52 13.23 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Fourth Quarter $ 18.07 $ 13.27 Third Quarter 17.91 14.71 Second Quarter 21.09 16.32 First Quarter 23.28 16.58 As of February 5, 2010, there were approximately 2,100 holders of record of the Company's common stock and the closing price of IAC common stock was $21.17. Because many of the outstanding shares of IAC common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, IAC is not able to estimate the total number of beneficial shareholders represented by these record holders. As of February 5, 2010, there was one holder of record of the Company's Class B common stock. IAC has paid no cash dividends on its common stock or Class B common stock to date and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock or Class B common stock in the immediate future. During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, the Company did not issue or sell any shares of its common stock or other equity securities pursuant to unregistered transactions. 22 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The following table sets forth purchases by the Company of its common stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2009: October 2009 657,232 $ 19.01 657,232 20,871,808 November 2009 5,539,844 19.50 5,539,844 15,331,964 December 2009 5,031,525 19.31 5,031,525 10,300,439 Total 11,228,601 $ 19.38 11,228,601 10,300,439 (3) (1) Reflects the weighted average price paid per share of IAC common stock. (2) Reflects repurchases made pursuant to repurchase authorizations previously announced in October 2006 and/or July 2009. (3) Represents the total number of shares of common stock that remained available for repurchase (as adjusted to give effect to the reverse stock split effected after the close of trading on August 20, 2008) as of December 31, 2009 pursuant to the July 2009 repurchase authorization. At February 5, 2010, IAC had approximately 5.8 million shares remaining pursuant to the July 2009 repurchase authorization. On February 26, 2010, IAC's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of IAC common stock. This authorization is in addition to the 5.8 million shares remaining under the July 2009 repurchase authorization at February 5, 2010. IAC may purchase shares pursuant to these repurchase authorizations over an indefinite period of time, depending on those factors IAC management deems relevant at any particular time, including, without limitation, market conditions, share price and future outlook. 23 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table presents selected historical financial data of IAC for each of the years in the five-year period ended December 31, 2009. This data was derived from IAC's consolidated financial statements and reflects the operations and financial position of IAC at the dates and for the periods indicated. The information in this table should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of IAC included herein. Statement of Operations Data: Revenue $ 1,375,788 $ 1,445,095 $ 1,332,582 $ 1,000,593 $ 523,493 Operating loss (1,058,506 ) (61,961 ) (78,504 ) (111,306 ) (152,609 ) (Loss) earnings from continuing operations (969,016 ) 131,180 (6,411 ) (27,399 ) 298,100 (Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax (10,896 ) (293,230 ) (139,672 ) 213,697 571,967 (Loss) earnings attributable to IAC shareholders before preferred dividends (978,822 ) (156,201 ) (144,069 ) 187,065 869,683 Net (loss) earnings attributable to IAC shareholders (978,822 ) (156,201 ) (144,069 ) 187,065 861,745 Basic (loss) earnings per common share from continuing operations attributable to IAC shareholders (10) (6.98 ) 0.98 (0.03 ) (0.17 ) 1.76 Diluted (loss) earnings per common share from continuing operations attributable to IAC shareholders (10) (6.98 ) 0.95 (0.03 ) (0.17 ) 1.65 Basic (loss) earnings per common share attributable to IAC shareholders (10) (7.06 ) (1.12 ) (1.01 ) 1.23 5.23 Diluted (loss) earnings per common share attributable to IAC shareholders (10) (7.06 ) (1.08 ) (1.01 ) 1.23 4.81 Balance Sheet Data (end of period): Working capital $ 1,709,772 $ 1,904,928 $ 1,692,004 $ 1,840,388 $ 2,384,366 Total assets 4,015,889 5,251,320 12,590,802 13,243,156 13,938,102 Long-term obligations, net of current maturities 95,844 95,844 834,542 837,048 929,654 Redeemable noncontrolling interests 28,180 22,771 32,880 24,212 1,706 Shareholders' equity 3,127,826 4,427,536 8,583,662 8,739,474 9,206,879 (1) Net (loss) earnings attributable to IAC shareholders includes an after-tax impairment charge of $991.9 million related to the goodwill and intangible assets of IAC Search & Media (formerly Ask Jeeves, Inc.) which comprises our Search properties, excluding Citysearch, and an after-tax write-down of $37.7 million related to the contingent value right received by the Company as part of the consideration for the sale of Home Shopping Europe GmbH & Co. KG, and its affiliated station HSE24 ("HSE"). Partially offsetting these write-downs are after-tax gains of $77.7 million and $23.7 million associated with the Company's sale of Match Europe and the sale of 2.0 million shares of OpenTable, Inc., respectively. 24 Table of Contents (2) On August 20, 2008, the Company completed the spin-off of HSN, Inc. ("HSNi"), Interval Leisure Group, Inc. ("ILG"), Ticketmaster Entertainment, Inc. ("Ticketmaster") and Tree.com, Inc. ("Tree.com") (collectively the "Spin-Off") into separate independent publicly traded companies. The results of HSNi, ILG, Ticketmaster and Tree.com have been presented as discontinued operations for 2008 and all prior periods. (3) (Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, includes after-tax impairment charges of $262.1 million and $148.9 million related to the write-down of HSNi's and Tree.com's goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, and an after-tax gain of $22.3 million related to the sale of Entertainment Publications, Inc. ("EPI"), IAC's former Entertainment segment. The results of EPI have been presented as discontinued operations for 2008 and all prior periods. (4) Net (loss) earnings attributable to IAC shareholders includes after-tax gains of $242.5 million and $18.3 million associated with the Company's sale of its investment in Jupiter Shop Channel Co., Ltd. and its preferred investment in Points International, Ltd. Partially offsetting these gains is an after-tax write-down of $119.0 million related to the Company's investment portfolio, an after-tax loss of $38.3 million arising from the extinguishment of a significant portion of the 7% Senior Notes due 2013 and after-tax Spin-Off expenses of $35.2 million. (5) (Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, includes after-tax impairment charges of $452.1 million and $44.7 million related to the write-down of Tree.com's and EPI's goodwill and intangible assets, respectively, and an after-tax gain of $31.1 million related to the sale HSE, IAC's former Retailing International segment. The results of HSE have been presented as discontinued operations for 2007 and all prior periods. (6) (Loss) earnings from discontinued operations, net of tax, includes an after-tax impairment charge of $167.9 million related to the write-down of EPI's goodwill and intangible assets and an after-tax gain of $9.6 million related to the sale of PRC, IAC's former Teleservices segment. The results of PRC have been presented as discontinued operations for 2006 and all prior periods. (7) On August 9, 2005, the Company completed the spin-off of Expedia into a separate independent publicly traded company. The results of Expedia have been presented as discontinued operations for 2005. (8) Includes the results of IAC Search & Media since its acquisition by IAC on July 19, 2005. (9) Net (loss) earnings attributable to IAC shareholders includes an after-tax gain of $322.1 million related to the sale of IAC's common and preferred interests in Vivendi Universal Entertainment, LLLP ("VUE") to NBC Universal, an after-tax gain of $70.2 million related to the sale of EUVA and an after-tax charge of $49.0 million ($41.8 million in continuing operations and $7.2 million in discontinued operations) in non-cash compensation expense related to the treatment of vested stock options in connection with the Expedia spin-off. Net (loss) earnings attributable to IAC shareholders also includes an after-tax reduction in non-cash compensation expense of $1.7 million included in earnings from continuing operations and $23.7 million included in discontinued operations related to the cumulative effect of a change in IAC's estimate related to the number of stock-based awards that were expected to vest. (10) On August 20, 2008, IAC effected a one-for-two reverse stock split of its common stock and its Class B common stock. Accordingly, all prior period earnings (loss) per common share data and shares outstanding have been adjusted to reflect the one-for-two-reverse stock split. 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW IAC is a leading internet company with more than 50 brands serving consumer audiences across more than 30 countries... our mission is to harness the power of interactivity to make daily life easier and more productive for people all over the world. IAC includes the businesses comprising its Search segment; its Match and ServiceMagic segments; the businesses comprising its Media & Other segment; and certain investments in unconsolidated affiliates. All references to "IAC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. Results Set forth below are the contributions made by our various segments and corporate expenses to consolidated revenue, operating (loss) income and Operating Income Before Amortization (as defined in IAC's Principles of Financial Reporting) for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (dollars in thousands). Revenue: Search $ 688,163 (10 )% $ 765,526 3 % $ 745,996 Match 342,598 (6 )% 365,505 5 % 348,733 ServiceMagic 155,813 26 % 123,914 33 % 93,385 Media & Other 197,842 (9 )% 216,444 32 % 164,068 Inter-segment elimination (8,628 ) 67 % (26,294 ) (34 )% (19,600 ) Total $ 1,375,788 (5 )% $ 1,445,095 8 % $ 1,332,582 Operating (Loss) Income: Search $ (990,119 ) NM $ 97,456 260 % $ 27,100 Match 84,655 12 % 75,490 15 % 65,780 ServiceMagic 13,383 (44 )% 23,983 36 % 17,587 Media & Other (32,522 ) 38 % (52,678 ) (184 )% (18,545 ) Corporate (133,903 ) 35 % (206,212 ) (21 )% (170,426 ) Total $ (1,058,506 ) (1,608 )% $ (61,961 ) 21 % $ (78,504 ) 26 Table of Contents Operating Income Before Amortization: Search $ 81,727 (40 )% $ 136,311 60 % $ 85,388 Match 94,124 3 % 91,266 16 % 78,367 ServiceMagic 21,286 (19 )% 26,244 26 % 20,764 Media & Other (28,659 ) 11 % (32,201 ) (531 )% (5,103 ) Corporate (65,635 ) 46 % (121,522 ) (23 )% (98,932 ) Total $ 102,843 3 % $ 100,098 24 % $ 80,484 * Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company renamed and realigned its reportable segments. The Media & Advertising segment has been renamed "Search" and the Emerging Businesses segment has been renamed "Media & Other". Further, Evite has been moved from the Search segment (formerly Media & Advertising) to the Media & Other segment (formerly Emerging Businesses). Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Refer to Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for reconciliations by segment of Operating Income Before Amortization to operating (loss) income. Sources of Revenue For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, Search was our largest revenue contributor. Our Search businesses offer information and services via the internet and are compensated directly and indirectly by advertisers generally based on performance and volume related measures. Our Match business offers subscription membership services and our ServiceMagic business is generally compensated on a fee basis by home service providers who participate in our services. Strategic Partnerships, Advertiser Relationships and Online Advertising Spend We market and offer our products and services directly to consumers through branded websites and membership programs, allowing consumers to transact directly with us in a convenient manner. We have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in online and offline advertising to build our brands and drive traffic to our websites and consumers and advertisers to our businesses. We pay traffic acquisition costs which consist of revenue share payments to third parties that have distributed our toolbars and/or integrated paid listings into their websites and similar arrangements with third parties who direct traffic to our websites. We also pay to market and distribute our services on third party distribution channels, such as internet portals and search engines. In addition, some of our businesses manage affiliate programs, pursuant to which we pay commissions and fees to third parties based on revenue earned. These distribution channels might also offer their own products and services, as well as those of other third parties, that compete with those we offer. The cost of acquiring new consumers through online and offline third party distribution channels has increased, particularly in the case of online channels as internet commerce continues to grow and competition in the segments in which IAC's businesses operate increases. Our various businesses provide supplier partners with important customer acquisition channels and we believe that the ability of our supplier partners to reach a large qualified audience through our services is a significant benefit. While we aim to build and maintain strong relationships with our supplier partners, we may not succeed in these efforts and there is always the risk that certain supplier partners may not make their products and services available to us in the future, including advertisers on the businesses within Search. 27 Table of Contents The substantial majority of the paid listings on our search properties is provided by Google Inc. ("Google") pursuant to a paid listing supply agreement which expires on December 31, 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, revenue earned from Google was $564.8 million, $610.8 million and $568.1 million, respectively. Principally all of this revenue is earned by IAC Search & Media (formerly, Ask Jeeves, Inc.), which comprises our Search properties, excluding Citysearch. International Operations We continue to seek to expand the presence of certain of our brands and businesses abroad, primarily in Europe and Latin America, given the large consumer marketplace for the services and goods that our brands and businesses offer. We believe foreign markets generally exhibit similar characteristics of the U.S. in regards to customer acceptance of an online marketplace. As a percentage of total IAC revenue (which excludes revenue related to discontinued operations), international operations represented approximately 15%, 19% and 15% in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. International revenue decreased in 2009 from 2008 due to the sale of Match Europe to Meetic S.A. ("Meetic"), an online dating company based in France, on June 5, 2009. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 IAC Consolidated Results Revenue Revenue $1,375,788 (5)% $1,445,095 8% $1,332,582 Revenue in 2009 decreased 5% or $69.3 million from 2008 primarily as a result of revenue decreases of $77.4 million from Search and $22.9 million from Match, partially offset by an increase of $31.9 million from ServiceMagic. The decrease from Search was driven by a sharp decline in network revenue, resulting from the discontinuation of relationships with certain partners that took place during 2008 in conjunction with the renewed Google agreement. Partially offsetting this decline is the continued growth in partners and queries at the Ask toolbar business and the favorable impact in 2009 from the acquisition of Lexico, which includes Dictionary.com and Thesaurus.com, on July 3, 2008. The decrease in revenue at Match was driven by the sale of Match Europe to Meetic on June 5, 2009, partially offset by the favorable impact from the acquisition of PeopleMedia on July 13, 2009 and solid growth in the U.S. business. The increase in revenue from ServiceMagic was primarily due to a more active service provider network resulting in a 25% increase in the number of times service requests are accepted by a service professional and a shift in the mix of requests to higher value service requests driven, in part, by increased marketing efforts. Revenue in 2008 increased 8% or $112.5 million from 2007 primarily as a result of revenue increases of $52.4 million from Media & Other, $30.5 million from ServiceMagic, $19.5 million from Search and $16.8 million from Match. The contribution from Media & Other was driven primarily by strong revenue growth at Pronto and Shoebuy. The increase at ServiceMagic reflected a more active service provider network resulting in a 29% increase in the number of times service requests are accepted by a service professional driven by increased marketing efforts throughout the year. Also contributing to the increased revenue was strong growth from proprietary search properties at Search. Revenue per query on proprietary search properties grew primarily from improved economics associated with the renewed paid listing supply agreement with Google. Partially offsetting this increase in proprietary revenue was a sharp decline in network revenue, resulting from the discontinuation of 28 Table of Contents relationships with certain partners that took place during 2008 in conjunction with the renewed Google agreement. The increase at Match was driven by a 5% increase in worldwide subscribers and a 3% increase in average revenue per subscriber. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue $449,790 (6)% $477,390 (9)% $521,744 As a percentage of total revenue 33% (34) bp 33% (612) bp 39% bp = basis points Cost of revenue consists primarily of traffic acquisition costs, compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in data center functions, the cost of products sold and shipping and handling costs. Traffic acquisition costs consist of revenue share payments to partners that have distributed toolbars and/or integrated paid listings into their websites and similar arrangements with third parties who direct traffic to our websites. Cost of revenue in 2009 decreased $27.6 million from 2008 primarily due to decreases of $20.7 million from Match and $6.0 million from Media & Other. The decrease in cost of revenue from Match was primarily due to a decrease of $20.0 million in traffic acquisition costs resulting principally from the sale of Match Europe to Meetic and the impact of more favorable economic terms under agreements with certain distribution partners. Cost of revenue from Media & Other decreased primarily due to the absence of ReserveAmerica in the current year period following its sale on January 31, 2009, partially offset by continued investment in InstantAction.com and The Daily Beast, as well as an increase of $3.0 million in the cost of products sold at Shoebuy due to increased sales. Cost of revenue in 2008 decreased $44.4 million from 2007 primarily due to decreases of $51.3 million from Search and $14.6 million from Match, partially offset by an increase of $21.6 million from Media & Other. The decrease in cost of revenue was primarily due to decreases of $45.4 million and $16.1 million in traffic acquisition costs from Search and Match, respectively. Overall traffic acquisition costs from Search during the year decreased as a direct result of a decrease in network revenue, partially offset by growth in distribution revenue included as a component of proprietary revenue at IAC Search & Media. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs associated with network revenue generated from integrated paid listings are lower than traffic acquisition costs associated with distribution revenue generated from partners who redirect traffic to the Ask.com landing page. The decrease in traffic acquisition costs from Match was due primarily to improved economics from agreements with certain domestic distribution partners. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in cost of revenue from Media & Other primarily due to an increase of $7.8 million in cost of products sold and $3.2 million in shipping and handling costs at Shoebuy due to increased sales. Cost of revenue from Media & Other was also impacted by the write-off of capitalized software, including game development costs, at InstantAction.com, increased costs at Gifts.com and costs incurred by various early stage businesses not in the year ago period. Selling and marketing expense Selling and marketing expense $474,639 3% $459,021 13% $405,891 As a percentage of total revenue 34% 274 bp 32% 131 bp 30% 29 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures and compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in sales functions, marketing and promotion. Advertising and promotional expenditures include online marketing, including fees paid to search engines and third parties that distribute our toolbars, and offline marketing, including television, radio and print advertising. Selling and marketing expense in 2009 increased $15.6 million from 2008 primarily due to an increase of $25.1 million from ServiceMagic, partially offset by a decrease of $10.2 million from Match. The increase in selling and marketing expense from ServiceMagic is primarily due to an increase of $19.8 million in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online marketing and an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs, due in part, to the continued expansion of its sales force. The growth in service requests during the year from paid channels outpaced the growth in free requests as a result of the increase in online marketing. Partially offsetting these increases in selling and marketing expense is lower advertising and promotional expenditures of $7.8 million from Match. This decrease is due primarily to the sale of Match Europe to Meetic, partially offset by an increase in online marketing. Selling and marketing expense in 2008 increased $53.1 million from 2007 primarily due to increases of $25.4 million from Media & Other, $20.5 million from ServiceMagic and $12.9 million from Match. The increase in selling and marketing expense from Media & Other is primarily due to an increase of $20.3 million in online marketing from Pronto. Selling and marketing expense from ServiceMagic increased primarily due to an increase of $15.6 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, as it continued to focus its spend on driving higher margin home repair and improvement requests. Also contributing to the increase in selling and marketing expense at ServiceMagic is an increase of $4.9 million in compensation and other employee-related costs primarily associated with the expansion of its sales force due in part to the opening of a new call center in Kansas City in the second quarter of 2007. Selling and marketing expense from Match increased primarily due to an increase of $11.7 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, including those associated with television advertising and online marketing related to Chemistry.com and various international marketing campaigns. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense $289,462 (18)% $352,538 27% $276,942 As a percentage of total revenue 21% (336) bp 24% 361 bp 21% General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in executive management functions, finance, legal, tax and human resources, facilities costs and fees for professional services. General and administrative expense in 2009 decreased $63.1 million from 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $66.1 million from corporate. The decrease from corporate is principally due to the inclusion in the prior year period of $42.0 million in expenses related to the spin-off of HSN, Inc. ("HSNi"), Interval Leisure Group, Inc. ("ILG"), Ticketmaster Entertainment, Inc. ("Ticketmaster") and Tree.com, Inc. ("Tree.com") (collectively the "Spin-Off"), as well as a decrease in the current year period in compensation and other employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation. The decrease in compensation and other employee-related costs is due in part to a decrease of $16.4 million in non-cash compensation expense as the prior year period included the impact of the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off. 30 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, there was $137.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to all equity-based awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.6 years. General and administrative expense in 2008 increased $75.6 million from 2007 primarily due to increases of $39.5 million from corporate and $25.4 million from Media & Other. The increase from corporate is principally due to an increase of $37.9 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off and an increase of $13.8 million in non-cash compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease of $5.8 million in professional fees, excluding Spin-Off related expenses noted above, a reduction of $3.7 million in insurance reserves due to favorable loss experience and a decrease of $3.5 million in rent expense. The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily due to the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off. General and administrative expense from Media & Other increased primarily due to the inclusion in the prior year of an $8.2 million reimbursement of previously expensed advances related to the restructuring of our interests in a business venture as well as increased operating expenses associated with Connected Ventures, InstantAction.com, RushmoreDrive.com and various early stage businesses not in the year ago period. Product development expense Product development expense $64,307 (10)% $71,536 17% $61,245 As a percentage of total revenue 5% (28) bp 5% 35 bp 5% Product development expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) that are not capitalized for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of product offerings and related technology. Product development expense in 2009 decreased $7.2 million from 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $5.1 million in compensation and other employee-related costs from Search which is due in part to a decrease of 7% in average headcount at IAC Search & Media. Also contributing to the decrease in product development expense is an increase in costs being capitalized in the current year period related to the development and enhancement of IAC Search & Media's product offerings and related technology. Product development expense in 2008 increased $10.3 million from 2007, primarily due to increases of $5.7 million and $4.5 million in compensation and other employee-related costs from Search and Match, respectively. The increases from Search and Match are due in part to an approximate 8% and 30% increase in average headcount, respectively, as they continued to upgrade and enhance their technology and products. Depreciation Depreciation $64,633 (9)% $71,051 19% $59,861 As a percentage of total revenue 5% (22) bp 5% 42 bp 4% Depreciation in 2009 decreased $6.4 million from 2008 primarily due to certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by the incremental depreciation associated with capital expenditures made during 2009 and 2008. 31 Table of Contents Depreciation in 2008 increased $11.2 million from 2007 primarily due to the incremental depreciation associated with capital expenditures made during 2007 and 2008 and various acquisitions, partially offset by certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated during the period. Operating Income Before Amortization Operating Income Before Amortization $102,843 3% $100,098 24% $80,484 As a percentage of total revenue 7% 55 bp 7% 89 bp 6% Operating Income Before Amortization in 2009 increased $2.7 million from 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $55.9 million in corporate expenses due in part to the inclusion in the prior year period of $42.0 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off and a decrease in compensation and other-employee related costs. Partially offsetting these increases in Operating Income Before Amortization is a decrease of $54.6 million from Search resulting primarily from lower overall revenue and higher traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue. Operating Income Before Amortization in 2008 increased $19.6 million from 2007 primarily due to growth of $50.9 million, $12.9 million and $5.5 million from Search, Match and ServiceMagic, respectively. These increases in Operating Income Before Amortization were partially offset by decreases of $27.1 million from Media & Other and $22.6 million from corporate. Contributing favorably to Operating Income Before Amortization is the impact of higher revenue and lower traffic acquisition costs from Search. Partially offsetting the increases in Operating Income Before Amortization at certain segments is the favorable impact in the prior year of an $8.2 million reimbursement of previously expensed advances related to the restructuring of our interests in a business venture within Media & Other, as well as increased operating expenses associated with various early stage businesses not in the year ago period, InstantAction.com, RushmoreDrive.com and Connected Ventures. Operating Income Before Amortization was further impacted by an increase of $37.9 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off, partially offset by lower non-Spin-Off related professional fees, a reduction in insurance reserves due to favorable loss experience and a decrease in rent expense from corporate. Operating loss Operating loss $(1,058,506) (1,608)% $(61,961) 21% $(78,504) As a percentage of total revenue (77)% (7,265) bp (4)% 160 bp (6)% In connection with the Company's annual impairment assessment, in the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company identified and recorded impairment charges at the Search segment related to the write-down of the goodwill and intangible assets of IAC Search & Media of $916.9 million and $128.3 million, respectively. The impairments reflect lower growth projections for revenue and profits at IAC Search & Media in future years that reflect the Company's consideration of industry growth rates, competitive dynamics and IAC Search & Media's current operating strategies and the impact of these factors on the fair value of IAC Search & Media and its goodwill and intangible assets. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company identified and recorded impairment charges related to the write-down of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of Connected Ventures, which is included in the Media & Other segment, of $11.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively, and the indefinite-lived intangible assets of the Search segment of $9.2 million. The impairment at Connected Ventures 32 Table of Contents resulted from the Company's assessment of its future profitability. The impairment at the Search segment primarily resulted from the decline in revenue and profitability at IAC Search & Media's Excite, iWon and MyWay portals businesses. The intangible asset impairment charges are included in amortization of intangibles in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The intangible asset impairment charges were determined by comparing the fair values of the respective reporting unit's intangible assets with the carrying values. The goodwill impairment charges were determined by comparing the implied fair value of the respective reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying value. Fair values were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. Operating loss in 2009 increased $996.5 million from 2008 primarily due to the impairment charges described above. Partially offsetting this increase in operating loss is an increase of $2.7 million in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and the decreases of $16.7 million in non-cash compensation expense, $4.1 million in amortization of non-cash marketing and $1.9 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charges noted above. The decrease in non-cash compensation expense is primarily due to the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off in the prior year period. The amortization of non-cash marketing referred to in this report consists of non-cash advertising credits secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which Vivendi Universal Entertainment, LLLP ("VUE") was created, and the subsequent transaction by which IAC sold its partnership interests in VUE. Operating loss in 2008 decreased $16.5 million from 2007 primarily due to the increase of $19.6 million in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and a decrease of $29.7 million in amortization of non-cash marketing, partially offset by the impairment charges noted above and an increase of $13.0 million in non-cash compensation expense. The decrease in amortization of non-cash marketing is attributable to IAC Search & Media and Shoebuy. The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily due to the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off. Other income (expense) Other income (expense): Interest income $ 10,218 (59 )% $ 24,759 (58 )% $ 58,931 Interest expense (5,823 ) (82 )% (32,364 ) (45 )% (59,054 ) Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates (14,014 ) NM 16,640 (26 )% 22,352 Gain on sale of long-term investments 28,835 (92 )% 381,099 2,186 % 16,669 Other income (expense) 71,759 NM (234,690 ) NM 35,516 Interest income in 2009 decreased $14.5 million from 2008 primarily due to the impact of lower average interest rates resulting, in part, from a reallocation of investments during the second half of 2008 into lower risk and yielding treasury and government agency funds, partially offset by higher average investment balances throughout the year. Interest expense in 2009 decreased $26.5 million from 2008 as the average amount of debt outstanding during the year decreased due to the extinguishment of $734.2 million of the Company's 7% Senior Notes due 2013 (the "Senior Notes") as described below. The remaining outstanding principal of the Senior Notes at December 31, 2009 is $15.8 million. Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 decreased $30.7 million from 2008 primarily due to the inclusion in the prior year period of $29.8 million related to the equity in earnings of our former investment in Jupiter Shop Channel Co., Ltd. ("Jupiter Shop"), a Japanese TV shopping company, and a loss of $5.5 million from the Company's investment in Meetic, which is not in the year ago period. The loss from the investment in Meetic is primarily due to the write-off of Meetic's deferred 33 Table of Contents revenue and the amortization of intangibles, required by purchase accounting rules. Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates was further impacted by a $5.5 million impairment charge in 2008 described below. Gain on sale of long-term investments in 2009 of $28.8 million principally represents a gain of $39.6 million related to the Company's sale of 2.0 million shares of OpenTable, Inc. ("OpenTable"). Partially offsetting this gain is a loss of $12.3 million related to the Company's sale of 5.5 million shares of Arcandor AG ("ARO") stock. As part of the consideration for the sale of Home Shopping Europe GmbH & Co. KG, and its affiliated station HSE24 ("HSE") in June 2007, the Company received 5.5 million shares of ARO stock plus additional consideration in the form of a contingent value right ("CVR"). Other income in 2009 of $71.8 million is principally due to a $132.2 million gain related to the sale of Match Europe to Meetic. On June 5, 2009, Match completed the sale of its European operations to Meetic. In exchange for its European operations, Match received a 27% stake in Meetic, plus a promissory note valued at $6.2 million. The promissory note was subsequently paid in the fourth quarter of 2009. Partially offsetting the increase in other income in 2009 are charges of $58.1 million and $4.6 million related to the write-down of the CVR and the impairment of the Company's shares of ARO stock, respectively. ARO filed for insolvency on June 9, 2009. The write-down related to the CVR was based upon the Company's assessment of the value that it expects to recover from the insolvency proceedings. The impairment charge related to the ARO stock was based on the Company's conclusion that the decline in ARO's stock price was other-than-temporary, due in part, to ARO's insolvency filing. Interest income in 2008 decreased $34.2 million from 2007 primarily due to lower average cash and marketable securities balances in 2008, as well as the impact of lower average interest rates due, in part, to a reallocation of investments during the second half of the year into lower risk and yielding treasury and government agency funds. Interest expense in 2008 decreased $26.7 million from 2007 as the amount of outstanding debt decreased year over year due to the extinguishment of $734.2 million of Senior Notes. Equity in income of unconsolidated affiliates in 2008 decreased $5.7 million from 2007 primarily due to a $5.5 million impairment charge to write-down an equity method investment to its fair value. The decline in value was determined to be other-than-temporary due to the equity method investee's operating losses, negative operating cash flows and the resulting need for changes to the investee's existing business model. The resulting valuation of the investee also reflected the assessment of market conditions and the investee's ability to successfully restructure. Equity in income of unconsolidated affiliates was further impacted by increased losses associated with various Company investments, including those not in the year ago period, partially offset by higher earnings from its investment in Jupiter Shop. Gain on sale of long-term investments in 2008 represents a gain of $352.0 million on the sale of the Company's investment in Jupiter Shop and a gain of $29.1 million associated with the sale of the Company's preferred investment in Points International, Ltd. ("Points"). On December 8, 2008 the Company sold its 30% equity stake in Jupiter Shop for $493.3 million. Other expense in 2008 of $234.7 million is primarily due to the impairment charges of $166.7 million and $13.3 million related to the Company's investment in ARO, and certain other investments, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the Company's investment in ARO totaled 16.9 million or $23.8 million. The impairment charge resulted from the Company's conclusion that the decline in the value of the investment in ARO was other-than-temporary due to the significant decline in, and the Company's assessment of the near-to-medium term prospects for a recovery of, the ARO stock price. Other expense in 2008 also reflects a $63.2 million loss on the extinguishment of $734.2 million of the Senior Notes. On August 20, 2008, IAC purchased for cash $456.7 million of Senior Notes pursuant to its amended tender offer to purchase the outstanding Senior Notes. Concurrent with the tender offer and in connection with the Spin-Off, the Company exchanged an additional $277.4 million in principal amount of the Senior Notes for the debt of ILG. 34 Table of Contents Gain on sale of long-term investments in 2007 represents amounts received due to the resolution of certain contingencies related to the sale of our common interests in VUE to NBC Universal on June 7, 2005. Other income in 2007 of $35.5 million was primarily due to gains of $24.1 million and $5.2 million associated with the CVR and the derivatives created in the Expedia spin-off, respectively. Other income also included a gain of $3.1 million on the sale of fixed assets in 2007. Income tax provision In 2009, the Company recorded an income tax provision for continuing operations of $1.5 million, despite losses from continuing operations. The tax provision is due to non-deductible impairment charges related to IAC Search & Media. In 2008, the Company recorded an income tax benefit for continuing operations of $37.7 million, despite income from continuing operations. The tax benefit is due to a net reduction in deferred tax liabilities caused by the Spin-Off, foreign tax credits generated by the sale of Jupiter Shop, foreign income taxed at lower rates, and state tax benefits, partially offset by changes in tax reserves, non-deductible costs related to the Spin-Off, and an increase in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets related to other-than-temporary losses related to certain investments. In 2007, the Company recorded an income tax provision for continuing operations of $2.3 million, despite a loss from continuing operations. The tax provision includes interest on tax contingencies, partially offset by benefits from foreign tax credits associated with foreign equity investments, tax exempt income, federal tax credits for increasing research activities and non-taxable gains on derivatives. The Company is routinely under audit by federal, state, local and foreign authorities in the area of income tax. These audits include questioning the timing and the amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Income taxes payable include amounts considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examination of prior year tax returns; however, the amount paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amount provided. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts owed by the Company are recorded in the period they become known. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $394.3 million and $372.6 million, respectively. Unrecognized tax benefits for December 31, 2009 increased by $21.7 million due principally to a net increase in state and local tax reserves, offset by the reversal of deductible temporary differences. The Company recognizes interest and, if applicable, penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Included in the income tax expense from continuing operations and discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 is an $8.3 million expense and a $3.7 million expense, net of related deferred taxes of $5.5 million and $2.5 million, respectively, for interest on unrecognized tax benefits. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has accrued $68.7 million and $49.7 million, respectively, for the payment of interest. Included in the income tax expense from continuing operations and discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2009 is a $3.1 million expense and a $1.3 million expense, respectively, for penalties on unrecognized tax benefits. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company has accrued $5.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively, for penalties. The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company's tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2001 through 2006. The statute of limitations for these years has been extended to December 31, 2010. Various state, local and foreign jurisdictions are currently under examination, the most significant of which are California, New York and New York City, for various tax years beginning with December 31, 2002. These examinations are expected to be completed in 2011. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by $16.5 million within twelve months of the current reporting date primarily due to the reversal of deductible 35 Table of Contents temporary differences which will primarily result in a corresponding increase in net deferred tax liabilities. An estimate of other changes in unrecognized tax benefits, while potentially significant, cannot be made. On February 1, 2010, President Obama released his administration's updated proposals to modify certain aspects of the rules governing the U.S. taxation of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Many details of the proposal remain unknown and any legislation enacting such modifications would require Congressional approval; however, changes to these rules could impact the Company's effective tax rate. The Company will continue to monitor the progress of the proposals to determine the impact, if any, to the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Discontinued operations Discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations include HSNi, ILG, Ticketmaster and Tree.com through August 20, 2008, Entertainment Publications, Inc. ("EPI") through May 30, 2008, HSE through June 19, 2007. Results from these discontinued operations, net of tax, in 2009, 2008 and 2007 were losses of $10.9 million, $316.5 million and $173.2 million, respectively. The 2009 amount is principally due to tax return to provision adjustments related to the spun-off entities and interest on tax contingencies. The 2008 amount is principally due to the losses of HSNi, Tree.com and EPI, which include pre-tax impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $221.5 million and $78.5 million, respectively, for HSNi and $132.5 million and $33.4 million, respectively, for Tree.com. The losses from HSNi, Tree.com and EPI were partially offset by income of Ticketmaster and ILG. The 2007 amount is principally due to the losses of Tree.com and EPI, which include pre-tax impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets for Tree.com of $459.5 million and $16.2 million, respectively, and $48.3 million and $8.9 million, respectively, for EPI. The losses from Tree.com and EPI were partially offset by income of Ticketmaster, HSNi and ILG. Additionally, the Company recognized after-tax gains in 2008 and 2007 of $22.3 million and $31.1 million on the sales of EPI in 2008 and HSE in 2007, respectively. 36 Table of Contents Segment Results In addition to the discussion of consolidated results above, the following is a discussion of the results of each segment. Search Our Search segment consists primarily of Ask.com and other destination search websites through which we provide search and related advertising services, and toolbars and applications through which we promote and distribute these services, as well as Citysearch, a leading online local city guide. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue declined 10% to $688.2 million, primarily due to a sharp decline in network revenue, resulting from the discontinuation of relationships with certain partners that took place during 2008 in conjunction with the renewed Google agreement. The impact of this discontinuation was fully anniversaried during the second quarter of 2009. Revenue declines also reflect a decrease in revenue per query at Ask.com resulting from fewer clicks per visit as users find what they are searching for sooner due to the site's improved user experience resulting from its relaunch in October 2008. Offsetting these decreases was the continued growth in partners and queries at the Ask toolbar business and the favorable impact to revenue of $9.4 million related to the acquisition of Lexico, which includes Dictionary.com and Thesaurus.com, on July 3, 2008. Citysearch's revenue decline reflects a difficult display advertising environment and transitional issues related to the relaunch of the site and the integration of a new ad serving platform. Operating Income Before Amortization decreased 40% to $81.7 million, primarily due to the lower revenue noted above and an increase of $2.9 million in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by decreases of $7.9 million in traffic acquisition costs and $6.3 million in product development expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily due to an increase of $4.6 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, including those associated with the NASCAR partnership and an ad campaign to rebrand the Ask.co.UK website. Overall traffic acquisition costs during the period decreased as a direct result of a sharp decline in network revenue at IAC Search & Media; however, traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue increased. The decrease in product development expense is primarily due to a decrease of $5.1 million in compensation and other employee-related costs due, in part, to an approximate 7% reduction in average headcount at IAC Search & Media and an increase in costs being capitalized in the current year period related to the development and enhancement of IAC Search & Media's product offerings and related technology. Operating income decreased $1.1 billion to a loss of $990.1 million, primarily due to impairment charges related to the write-down of goodwill and intangible assets of IAC Search & Media of $916.9 million and $128.3 million, respectively. The impairment charges reflect lower growth projections for revenue and profits at IAC Search & Media in future years that reflect the Company's consideration of industry growth rates, competitive dynamics and IAC Search & Media's current operating strategies and the impact of these factors on the fair value of IAC Search & Media and its goodwill and intangible assets. In 2008 the Company identified and recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $9.2 million related to the decline in revenue and profitability at IAC Search & Media's Excite, iWon and MyWay portals businesses. Further contributing to the decrease in operating income in the current year is the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and increases of $1.6 million in amortization of non-cash marketing and $0.6 million in non-cash compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease of $5.2 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charges described above. 37 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 Revenue grew 3% to $765.5 million, primarily due to improved economics associated with the renewed paid listing supply agreement with Google, which resulted in an increase in revenue per query across most proprietary search properties. Revenue also benefited from an increase in both queries and revenue per query at Ask.com internationally and Fun Web Products. The growth in queries at Ask.com internationally and Fun Web Products was partially offset by declines in queries at Ask.com in the U.S. due, in part, to significantly lower marketing spend in 2008 versus 2007. Offsetting these increases in revenue was a sharp decline in network revenue, resulting from the discontinuation of relationships with certain partners that took place during 2008 in conjunction with the renewed Google agreement. Proprietary revenue represented 68.6% of total Search revenue during the year versus 53.8% in 2007. The acquisition of Lexico on July 3, 2008 contributed $10.1 million to revenue in 2008. Citysearch continued to grow users and revenue during the year. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 60% to $136.3 million, growing at a faster rate than revenue primarily due to the reduction in the current year of $45.4 million in traffic acquisition costs and a decrease in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by an increase of $5.8 million in product development expense. Overall traffic acquisition costs during the year decreased as a direct result of a decrease in network revenue, partially offset by growth in distribution revenue included as a component of proprietary revenue at IAC Search & Media. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs associated with network revenue generated from integrated paid listings are lower than traffic acquisition costs associated with distribution revenue generated from partners who redirect traffic to the Ask.com landing page. Contributing to the decrease in selling and marketing expense is a decrease of $13.1 million in advertising and promotional expenditures partially offset by an increase of $7.0 million in compensation and other employee-related costs. The increase in product development expense is primarily due to an increase of $5.7 million in compensation and other employee-related costs, due in part to acquisitions not in the year ago period and an approximate 8% increase in average headcount at IAC Search & Media. Operating income increased 260% to $97.5 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and a decrease of $28.7 million in amortization of non-cash marketing, partially offset by an increase of $9.3 million in amortization of intangibles. The increase in amortization of intangibles resulted principally from an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $9.2 million described above. Match For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue declined 6% to $342.6 million, reflecting the sale of Match Europe to Meetic on June 5, 2009, partially offset by a $16.5 million contribution from PeopleMedia, acquired July 13, 2009, and solid growth in the U.S. business. Excluding the results of Match Europe from both periods and PeopleMedia from the current period, revenue grew 6% during the current year period driven by a 5% increase in U.S. subscribers, partially offset by a 2% decline in U.S. revenue per subscriber. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 3% to $94.1 million despite the decrease in revenue noted above, primarily due to decreases of $20.7 million in cost of revenue and $10.2 million in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by an increase of $3.2 million in general and administrative expense. Both the decrease in cost of revenue and selling and marketing expense is primarily due to the sale of Match Europe. Cost of revenue and selling and marketing expense were further impacted by more favorable economic terms under agreements with certain distribution partners and an increase in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online marketing, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expense was principally due to $3.2 million of professional fees related to the sale of Match Europe in exchange for a 27% investment in Meetic. 38 Table of Contents Operating income increased 12% to $84.7 million in 2009, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and a decrease of $10.7 million in amortization of non-cash marketing, partially offset by an increase of $4.3 million in amortization of intangibles, relating primarily to the acquisition of PeopleMedia. For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 Revenue grew 5% to $365.5 million, reflecting a 2% increase in both international subscribers and revenue per subscriber, and 6% and 3% growth in North America subscribers and revenue per subscriber, respectively. The growth in international subscribers was driven by expansion in several markets, most notably the United Kingdom and Japan, partially offset by declines in Spain and Germany. Domestically, Chemistry.com continued to grow subscribers during 2008. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 16% to $91.3 million, growing at a faster rate than revenue primarily due to lower traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue due to more favorable economic terms under agreements with certain domestic distribution partners, partially offset by increased marketing spend and increased compensation and other employee-related costs related to product development. In 2008, Match experienced increases in advertising expenses associated with television advertising and online marketing related to Chemistry.com and various international marketing campaigns. The increase in compensation and other employee-related costs related to product development is due in part to an approximate 30% increase in average headcount as the company continued to make improvements to the site's features and functionality. Operating income increased 15% to $75.5 million primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and a decrease in amortization of intangibles, partially offset by an increase of $4.0 million in amortization of non-cash marketing. ServiceMagic For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue grew 26% to $155.8 million, benefiting from a 20% increase in service requests to a growing and more active service provider network and a shift in mix to higher value service requests driven, in part, by increased marketing efforts. During 2009, ServiceMagic experienced a 25% increase in the number of times service requests are accepted by a service professional. A service request can be transmitted to and accepted by more than one service professional. Revenue further benefited from a combined $8.2 million contribution from ServiceMagic International, acquired October 29, 2008, and Market Hardware, acquired January 23, 2009. Excluding the results of these acquisitions, revenue grew 19%. Operating Income Before Amortization decreased 19% to $21.3 million, despite the increase in revenue noted above, reflecting increases of $25.1 million in selling and marketing expense and $9.1 million in general and administrative expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily driven by an increase in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online marketing. The growth in service requests during the year from paid channels outpaced the growth in free requests as a result of the increase in online marketing. Also contributing to the increase in selling and marketing expense is an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs, due in part, to the continued expansion of its sales force. The increase in general and administrative expense is primarily due to increases of $4.6 million and $1.8 million in compensation and other employee-related costs related to recent acquisitions and bad debt expense, respectively. Operating income decreased 44% to $13.4 million, primarily due to the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization described above, the impact in 2009 of $5.0 million in amortization of 39 Table of Contents non-cash marketing and an increase of $1.2 million in amortization of intangibles, partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in non-cash compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 Revenue grew 33% to $123.9 million, benefiting from a more active service provider network and a 27% increase in service requests driven by increased marketing efforts. During 2008, ServiceMagic experienced a 29% increase in the number of times service requests are accepted by a service professional. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 26% to $26.2 million, primarily due to the increase in revenue noted above, partially offset by increases of $20.5 million in selling and marketing expense and $3.9 million in general and administrative expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily due to an increase of $15.6 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, as ServiceMagic continued to focus its spend on driving higher margin home repair and improvement requests. However, during 2008, ServiceMagic experienced slowing growth in these high margin requests due, in part, to the weak economic environment. Also contributing to the increase in selling and marketing expense is an increase of $4.9 million in compensation and other employee-related costs primarily associated with the expansion of its sales force due in part to the opening of a new call center in Kansas City in the second quarter of 2007. Contributing to the increase in general and administrative expense are increases of $1.4 million, $0.9 million and $0.8 million in compensation and other employee-related costs, bad debt expense and facilities costs, respectively. Operating income increased 36% to $24.0 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and a decrease of $1.0 million in amortization of intangibles, partially offset by an increase in non-cash compensation expense. Media & Other Our Media & Other segment includes Shoebuy, Pronto, Connected Ventures, Evite, Gifts.com, InstantAction.com, The Daily Beast and Electus. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue declined 9% to $197.8 million primarily reflecting the absence of revenue from ReserveAmerica in the current year period following its sale on January 31, 2009, partially offset by growth at Shoebuy and Connected Ventures. Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $3.5 million to a loss of $28.7 million. Losses decreased due primarily to cost savings related to the shutdown or sale of certain businesses of $7.7 million and profitability at Gifts.com, partially offset by increased operating expenses associated with The Daily Beast and InstantAction.com. Operating loss decreased by $20.2 million to $32.5 million primarily due to the decreased Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above and a goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 million in 2009 as compared to $11.6 million in 2008. The 2009 goodwill impairment charge relates to our gift card business and the 2008 goodwill impairment charge related to Connected Ventures, as described further below. Also contributing to the decrease in operating loss are decreases in amortization of intangibles and non-cash compensation expense of $5.7 million and $0.4 million, respectively. The decrease in amortization of intangibles is primarily due to the inclusion in the prior year period of $3.4 million associated with an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge related to Connected Ventures. 40 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 Revenue grew 32% to $216.4 million reflecting strong growth at Pronto and Shoebuy. The increase in revenue at Pronto was primarily due to improvements in customer acquisition and monetization. Operating Income Before Amortization loss increased by $27.1 million to a loss of $32.2 million. Losses increased due primarily to the inclusion in the prior year's results of an $8.2 million reimbursement of previously expensed advances related to the restructuring of our interests in a business venture, as well as increased operating expenses associated with various early stage businesses not in the year ago period, InstantAction.com, RushmoreDrive.com and Connected Ventures. Partially offsetting the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization loss was the first full year of profitability at Pronto. Operating loss increased by $34.1 million to $52.7 million primarily due to the increased Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above and a goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets impairment charge of $11.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively, related to Connected Ventures, partially offset by the inclusion in the prior year period of $4.9 million in amortization of non-cash marketing related to Shoebuy and a decrease of non-cash compensation expense. The impairment at Connected Ventures resulted from the Company's assessment of its future profitability. Corporate For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $55.9 million to a loss of $65.6 million primarily due to the inclusion in the prior year period of $42.0 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off. The current year period also benefited from lower compensation and other employee-related costs. Operating loss decreased $72.3 million to a loss of $133.9 million reflecting the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above and a decrease of $16.4 million in non-cash compensation expense. The decrease in non-cash compensation expense reflects the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off in the prior year period. For the year ended December 31, 2008 compared to the year ended December 31, 2007 Operating Income Before Amortization loss increased $22.6 million to a loss of $121.5 million reflecting an increase of $37.9 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off, partially offset by decreases of $5.8 million in non-Spin-Off related professional fees, a reduction of $3.7 million in insurance reserves due to favorable loss experience and a decrease of $3.5 million in rent expense. Operating loss increased $35.8 million to $206.2 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above and an increase of $13.2 million in non-cash compensation expense. The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily due to the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off, partially offset by the reversal in 2008 of cumulative expense associated with performance-based restricted stock units which were not probable of vesting. 41 Table of Contents FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents, $487.6 million of marketable securities and $95.8 million in long-term debt. Long-term debt consists of $80.0 million in Liberty Bonds due September 1, 2035 and $15.8 million in Senior Notes. During 2009 and 2008, the Company purchased 32.1 million and 3.0 million shares of IAC common stock for aggregate consideration, on a trade date basis, of $554.2 million and $145.6 million, respectively. The Company also repurchased an additional 4.5 million shares from January 1, 2010 through February 5, 2010 for aggregate consideration of $93.6 million. On February 26, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of IAC common stock. This authorization is in addition to the 5.8 million shares remaining at February 5, 2010 from the previous authorization. IAC may purchase shares over an indefinite period of time, depending on those factors IAC management deems relevant at any particular time, including, without limitation, market conditions, share price and future outlook. Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations was $331.5 million and $107.7 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase of $223.9 million in net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations is primarily due to refunds of income taxes received in 2009 related to the carryback of various tax attributes to prior years, lower interest payments made during 2009 due to the extinguishment in 2008 of a majority of the Company's Senior Notes and the 2008 discretionary cash bonuses being paid in the fourth quarter of 2008, whereas the 2009 discretionary cash bonuses will be paid in the first quarter of 2010. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2009 of $426.6 million includes $356.7 million related to the net purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities, acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $85.5 million and capital expenditures of $37.9 million, partially offset by the proceeds of $64.0 million from the sales of long-term investments. The proceeds from the sale of long-term investments relate primarily to the sale of OpenTable. Net cash provided by investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2008 of $927.4 million includes the proceeds of $549.3 million from the sale of long-term investments, the net cash distribution from the spun-off businesses of $441.7 million, the net proceeds of $186.3 million related to the sales, maturities and purchases of marketable securities and the proceeds of $32.2 million from the sale of EPI, partially offset by acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $148.6 million, purchases of long-term investments of $67.9 million and capital expenditures of $65.6 million. The purchases of long-term investments in 2008 related primarily to the Company's equity investment in The HealthCentral Network. The proceeds from the sale of long-term investments relate primarily to the sale of our equity investment in Jupiter Shop and our preferred investment in Points. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2009 of $406.0 million includes the purchase of treasury stock of $545.5 million and the settlement of vested stock-based awards denominated in a subsidiary's equity of $14.3 million, partially offset by the proceeds related to the issuance of common stock, net of withholding taxes, of $151.9 million. Included in the proceeds related to the issuance of common stock are aggregate proceeds of $150.9 million from the exercise of warrants to acquire 11.5 million shares of IAC common stock that were due to expire on February 4, 2009. The strike price of the warrants was $13.09 per share. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2008 of $674.1 million includes the repurchase of Senior Notes of $519.9 million, the purchase of treasury stock of $145.6 million and the issuance of common stock pursuant to stock-based awards, net of withholding taxes, of $10.6 million. Net cash used in discontinued operations was $3.5 million and $178.3 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Net cash used in discontinued operations in 2008 relates primarily to the operations of Ticketmaster, HSNi, ILG and Tree.com. The Company does not expect future cash flows associated with existing discontinued operations to be material. 42 Table of Contents IAC anticipates that it will need to make capital and other expenditures in connection with the development and expansion of its overall operations. The Company may make a number of acquisitions which could result in the reduction of its cash balance or the incurrence of debt. IAC expects that 2010 capital expenditures will be slightly lower than 2009. IAC believes that its cash on hand along with its anticipated operating cash flows in 2010 and its access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, capital, investing and other commitments and contingencies for the foreseeable future. 43 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS Long-term debt(b) $ 203,726 $ 5,109 $ 10,218 $ 24,399 $ 164,000 Purchase obligations(c) 1,288 281 561 446 Operating leases 307,603 19,554 39,418 29,933 218,698 Total contractual cash obligations $ 512,617 $ 24,944 $ 50,197 $ 54,778 $ 382,698 (a) At December 31, 2009, the Company has recorded $462.9 million of unrecognized tax benefits which includes accrued interest of $68.7 million. This amount includes $286.1 million for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest that could result in future net cash payments to taxing authorities. The Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the expected period of cash settlement of these items. (b) Represents contractual amounts due, including interest. (c) The purchase obligations primarily relate to minimum payments due under telecommunication contracts related to data transmission lines. Guarantee and letters of credit $ 22,918 $ 22,692 $ 226 $ $ * Commercial commitments are funding commitments that could potentially require registrant performance in the event of demands by third parties or contingent events, such as under lines of credit extended or under a guarantee of debt. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the items described above, the Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2009. 44 Table of Contents IAC'S PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING IAC reports Operating Income Before Amortization as a supplemental measure to generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This measure is one of the primary metrics by which we evaluate the performance of our businesses, on which our internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. We believe that investors should have access to, and we are obligated to provide, the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. IAC endeavors to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measure presented by providing the comparable GAAP measure with equal or greater prominence, financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measure. We encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measure which we discuss below. Definition of IAC's Non-GAAP Measure Operating Income Before Amortization is defined as operating income excluding, if applicable: (1) non-cash compensation expense, (2) amortization of non-cash marketing, (3) amortization and impairment of intangibles, (4) goodwill impairment, (5) pro forma adjustments for significant acquisitions, and (6) one-time items. We believe this measure is useful to investors because it represents the consolidated operating results from IAC's segments, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of any other non-cash expenses. Operating Income Before Amortization has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to IAC's statement of operations of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash marketing, and acquisition-related accounting. Pro Forma Results We will only present Operating Income Before Amortization on a pro forma basis if we view a particular transaction as significant in size or transformational in nature. For the periods presented in this report, there are no transactions that we have included on a pro forma basis. One-Time Items Operating Income Before Amortization is presented before one-time items, if applicable. These items are truly one-time in nature and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, and have not occurred in the past two years or are not expected to recur in the next two years, in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules. For the periods presented in this report, there are no one-time items. Non-Cash Expenses That Are Excluded From IAC's Non-GAAP Measure Non-cash compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with the grants, including unvested grants assumed in acquisitions, of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options. These expenses are not paid in cash, and we include the related shares in our fully diluted shares outstanding which, for restricted stock units and stock options, are included on a treasury method basis. Upon vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units and the exercise of certain stock options, the awards are settled, at the Company's discretion, on a net basis, with the Company remitting the required tax withholding amount from its current funds. Amortization of non-cash marketing consists of non-cash advertising credits secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which VUE was created, and the subsequent transaction by which IAC sold its partnership interests in VUE (collectively referred to as "NBC Universal Advertising"). The NBC Universal Advertising was available for television advertising on 45 Table of Contents various NBC Universal network and cable channels without any cash cost. At December 31, 2009, there were no NBC Universal Advertising credits available as all credits had been used. The NBC Universal Advertising is excluded from Operating Income Before Amortization because it is non-cash and generally is incremental to the advertising the Company otherwise secures as a result of its ordinary cost/benefit marketing planning process. Accordingly, the Company's aggregate level of advertising, and the increased concentration of that advertising on NBC Universal network and cable channels, does not reflect what our advertising effort would otherwise be without these credits. As a result, management believes that treating the NBC Universal Advertising as an expense does not appropriately reflect its true cost/benefit relationship, nor does it best reflect the Company's long-term level of advertising expenditures. Nonetheless, while the benefits directly attributable to television advertising are always difficult to determine, and especially so with respect to the NBC Universal Advertising due to its incrementality and heavy concentration, it is likely that the Company does derive benefits from it, though management believes such benefits are generally less than those received through its regular advertising for the reasons stated above. Operating Income Before Amortization therefore has the limitation of including those benefits while excluding the associated expense. Amortization of intangibles (including impairment of intangibles, if applicable) is a non-cash expense relating to acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the intangible assets of the acquired company, such as technology and supplier agreements, are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. Value is also assigned to acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, which comprise trade names and trademarks, which are not subject to amortization. An impairment is recorded when the carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value. While it is likely that we will have intangible amortization expense as we continue to acquire companies, we believe that intangible assets represent costs incurred by the acquired company to build value prior to acquisition and the related amortization is not an ongoing cost of doing business. RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION For a reconciliation of Operating Income Before Amortization to operating (loss) income by business and to net loss attributable to IAC shareholders in total for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 46 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following disclosure is provided to supplement the descriptions of IAC's accounting policies contained in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in regard to significant areas of judgment. Management of the Company is required to make certain estimates and assumptions during the preparation of its consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These estimates and assumptions impact the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. They also impact the reported amount of net earnings during any period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Because of the size of the financial statement elements to which they relate, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements than others. What follows is a discussion of some of our more significant accounting policies and estimates. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of certain of the Company's trade names and trademarks, are tested annually for impairment as of October 1 or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. The annual assessments identified impairment charges in 2009 related to the IAC Search & Media reporting unit and in 2008 related to the Connected Ventures and IAC Search & Media reporting units. These impairment charges are more fully described above in "Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007". The value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that is subject to annual assessment for impairment is $999.4 million and $245.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of each of the Company's reporting units to its carrying value, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit using a discounted cash flow ("DCF") analysis. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and appropriate discount rates. The expected cash flows used in the DCF analyses are based on the Company's most recent budget and, for years beyond the budget, the Company's estimates, which are based, in part, on forecasted growth rates. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows of the respective reporting units. The discount rates used in the Company's annual impairment assessments were the same in 2009 and 2008. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its carrying value to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. If the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of acquired trade names and trademarks. The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair 47 Table of Contents value of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined using an avoided royalty DCF valuation analysis. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis include the selection of appropriate royalty and discount rates and estimating the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets. The royalty rates used in the DCF analyses are based upon an estimate of the royalty rates that a market participant would pay to license the Company's trade names and trademarks. The discount rates used in the Company's annual impairment assessments were the same in 2009 and 2008. The royalty rates were unchanged from 2008 to 2009 with the exception of the reduced royalty rates used in the determination of the fair values of certain trade names and trademarks of IAC Search & Media. The Company has seven reporting units with goodwill. Of these, IAC Search & Media, InstantAction.com and Connected Ventures have fair values that approximate their carrying values. The amount of goodwill of each of the reporting units is $527.6 million, $31.6 million and $8.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. If operating results of these businesses vary significantly from anticipated results, future, potentially material, impairments of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets could occur. To illustrate the magnitude of potential impairment charges relative to future changes in estimated fair values, had the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units been hypothetically lower by 10% as of October 1, 2009, the carrying values of IAC Search & Media, InstantAction.com and Connected Ventures would have exceeded their respective fair values by approximately $80 million, $4 million and $4 million, respectively. Had the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units been hypothetically lower by 20% as of October 1, 2009, the carrying values of IAC Search & Media, InstantAction.com and Connected Ventures would have exceeded their respective fair values by approximately $160 million, $8 million and $8 million, respectively. Any impairment charge that might result in the future would be determined based upon the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value using the second step of the impairment analysis that is described above but, in any event, would not be expected to be lower than the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit over its fair value. The primary driver in the DCF valuation analyses and the determination of the fair values of the Company's reporting units is the estimate of future revenue and profitability. Generally, the Company would expect to record an impairment if forecasted revenue and profitability are no longer expected to be achieved and as a result, the carrying value of a reporting unit(s) exceeds its fair value. This assessment would be based, in part, upon the performance of its businesses relative to budget, the Company's assessment of macroeconomic factors, industry and competitive dynamics and the strategies of its businesses in response to these factors. Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets We review the carrying value of all long-lived assets, comprising property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. During 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge related to the definite-lived intangible assets of IAC Search & Media. The definite-lived intangible asset impairment charge primarily relates to certain technology and advertiser relationships, the carrying values of which were no longer considered recoverable based upon an assessment of future cash flows related to these assets. Accordingly, these assets were written down to fair value. The value of long-lived assets that is subject to assessment for impairment is $312.8 million at December 31, 2009. 48 Table of Contents Marketable Securities The Company invests in certain marketable securities, which consist primarily of short-to-intermediate-term debt securities issued by the U.S. government, U.S. government agencies, states of the U.S. and subdivisions thereof and investment grade corporate issuers. The unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity. The specific-identification method is used to determine the cost of a security sold or the amount of unrealized gains and losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings. The Company employs a methodology that considers available evidence in evaluating potential other-than-temporary impairment of its investments. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value below the amortized cost basis is determined to be other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and whether it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before the recovery of the amortized cost basis, which may be maturity. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in current earnings and a new cost basis in the investment is established. Future events may result in reconsideration of the nature of losses as other-than-temporary and market and other factors may cause the value of the Company's investment in marketable securities to decline. During 2008, the Company concluded that the decline in the ARO stock price was other-than-temporary and wrote the value of the 5.5 million shares of ARO stock down resulting in impairment charges totaling $166.7 million. The impairment charges were determined to be other-than-temporary due to the significant decline in, and the Company's assessment of the near-to-medium term prospects for a recovery of, the ARO stock price. During 2009, the Company sold its 5.5 million shares of ARO stock, resulting in aggregate losses of $12.3 million. Prior to the sale of its last 1.1 million shares of ARO stock, the Company concluded that the decline in the stock price of these remaining shares was other-than-temporary, due in part, to ARO's insolvency filing on June 9, 2009, and recorded impairment charges totaling $4.6 million. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances when it is assessed that all or a portion of the receivable will not be collected. The Company determines its allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time accounts receivable are past due, the Company's previous loss history, the specific customer's ability to pay its obligation to the Company, and the condition of the general economy and the customer's industry. The Company writes off accounts receivable when they become uncollectible. The Company also maintains allowances to reserve for potential credits issued to customers or other revenue adjustments. The amount of these reserves are based, in part, on historical experience. As of December 31, 2009, the Company's allowance for doubtful accounts is $11.3 million. Income Taxes Estimates of deferred income taxes and the significant items giving rise to the deferred assets and liabilities are shown in Note 4, and reflect management's assessment of actual future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the consolidated financial statements, giving consideration to both timing and the probability of realization. As of December 31, 2009, the balance of deferred tax assets, net, is $145.8 million. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, state income tax apportionment or the outcome of any review of our tax returns by the IRS, as well as actual operating results of the Company that vary significantly from anticipated results. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to 49 Table of Contents evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently difficult and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. Stock Based Compensation As disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company estimated the fair value of stock options issued in 2009 and 2008 using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: risk-free interest rates of 2.1% and 2.6%, respectively, a dividend yield of zero and volatility factors of 59% and 47%, respectively, based on the historical stock price volatilities of peer companies operating in the same industry sector as IAC and a weighted average expected life of the stock options of 4.9 years and 4.4 years, respectively. The historical stock price volatilities of peer companies is used due to the lack of sufficient historical IAC stock price volatilities subsequent to the Spin-Off. There were no stock options granted by the Company during the year ended December 31, 2007. For stock options issued since 2003, including unvested stock options assumed in acquisitions, the value of the stock option is measured at the grant date (or acquisition date, if applicable) at fair value and amortized over the remaining vesting term. The impact on non-cash compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2009, assuming a 1% increase in the risk-free interest rate, a 10% increase in the volatility factor, and a one year increase in the weighted average expected life of the outstanding options would be an increase of $1.5 million, $7.7 million, and $4.7 million, respectively. The Company also issues restricted stock units and performance stock units. For restricted stock units issued, the value of the instrument is measured at the grant date as the fair value of IAC common stock and amortized ratably as non-cash compensation expense over the vesting term. For performance stock units issued, the value of the instrument is measured at the grant date as the fair value of IAC common stock and expensed as non-cash compensation when the performance targets are considered probable of being achieved. 50 Table of Contents