Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operationsManagement overviewTrends affecting our business. Our growth and profitability rely, in part, on our ability to attract and retain users through cost-effective marketing efforts. Any failure in these efforts could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attracting and retaining users for certain of our dating products involve considerable expenditures for online and offline marketing. Historically, we have had to increase our marketing expenditures over time in order to attract and retain users and sustain our growth. Evolving consumer behavior can affect the availability of profitable marketing opportunities. For example, as traditional television viewership declines and as consumers spend more time on mobile devices rather than desktop computers, the reach of many of our traditional advertising channels is contracting. Similarly, as consumers communicate less via email and more via text messaging and other virtual means, the reach of email campaigns designed to attract new and repeat users (and retain current users) for our dating products is adversely impacted. To continue to reach potential users and grow our businesses, we must identify and devote more of our overall marketing expenditures to newer advertising channels, such as mobile and online video platforms, as well as targeted campaigns in which we communicate directly with potential, former and current users via new virtual means. Generally, the opportunities in and sophistication of newer advertising channels are relatively undeveloped and unproven, making it difficult to assess returns on investment associated with such advertising channels, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to appropriately manage and fine-tune our marketing efforts in response to these and other trends in the advertising industry. Any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Communicating with our users via email is critical to our success, and any erosion in our ability to communicate in this fashion that is not sufficiently replaced by other means could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Historically, one of our primary means of communicating with our users and keeping them engaged with our products has been via email communication. Our ability to communicate via email enables us to keep our users updated on activity with respect to their profile, present or suggest new or interesting users from the community, invite users to offline events and present discount and promotional offers, among other things. As consumer habits evolve in the era of web-enabled mobile devices and messaging/social networking apps, usage of email, particularly among our younger users, has declined. In addition, deliverability and other restrictions imposed by third party email providers and/or applicable law could limit or prevent our ability to send emails to our users. A continued and significant erosion in our ability to communicate successfully with our users via email could have an adverse impact on user experience, levels of user engagement and the rate at which non-paying users become Subscribers. While we continually work to find new means of communicating and connecting with our users (for example, through push notifications), there is no assurance that such alternative means of communication will be 10 Table of Contents as effective as email has been. Any failure to develop or take advantage of new means of communication or limitations on those means of communications imposed by laws, device manufacturers or other sources could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in various international markets, primarily in various jurisdictions within the European Union and Asia. During the fiscal years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 , 50% and 46% of our total revenues, respectively, were international revenues. We translate international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results and during periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our international revenues will be reduced when translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, as foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate, the translation of our international revenues into U.S. dollar-denominated operating results affects the period-over-period comparability of such results and can result in foreign currency exchange gains and losses. We have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk related to transactions carried out in a currency other than the U.S. dollar, and investments in foreign subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. Our exposure is primarily related to the Euro, and to a lesser extent, the British Pound (GBP). The average GBP and Euro exchange rates strengthened against the U.S. Dollar by 4% and 5%, respectively, in 2018 compared to 2017 . See