Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations GENERAL Management Overview IAC is a leading internet company with more than 50 brands serving consumer audiences across more than 30 countries... our mission is to harness the power of interactivity to make daily life easier and more productive for people all over the world. IAC includes the businesses comprising its Search segment; its Match and ServiceMagic segments; the businesses comprising its Media & Other segment; as well as investments in unconsolidated affiliates. All references to "IAC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. For a more detailed presentation of the Company's operating businesses, see the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Results of Operations for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2009 Set forth below are the contributions made by our various segments and corporate operations to consolidated revenue, operating income (loss) and Operating Income Before Amortization (as defined in IAC's Principles of Financial Reporting) for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 (dollars in thousands). Revenue: Search $ 198,961 20 % $ 165,973 Match 89,275 (1 )% 90,060 ServiceMagic 42,212 35 % 31,353 Media & Other 55,863 20 % 46,382 Inter-segment elimination (385 ) 78 % (1,758 ) Total $ 385,926 16 % $ 332,010 Operating Income (Loss): Search $ 31,057 2,469 % $ 1,209 Match 13,702 41 % 9,742 ServiceMagic 2,396 20 % 2,003 Media & Other (9,210 ) 28 % (12,821 ) Corporate (34,418 ) (3 )% (33,257 ) Total $ 3,527 NM $ (33,124 ) 21 Operating Income Before Amortization: Search $ 31,541 208 % $ 10,255 Match 14,806 49 % 9,941 ServiceMagic 2,859 2 % 2,801 Media & Other (6,834 ) 39 % (11,177 ) Corporate (13,166 ) 12 % (14,988 ) Total $ 29,206 NM $ (3,168 ) * In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company renamed and realigned its reportable segments. The Media & Advertising segment was renamed "Search" and the Emerging Businesses segment was renamed "Media & Other". Further, Evite was moved from the Search segment (formerly Media & Advertising) to the Media & Other segment (formerly Emerging Businesses). Certain prior year amounts were reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Refer to Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for reconciliations by segment of Operating Income Before Amortization to operating income (loss). Consolidated Results Revenue Revenue $ 385,926 16 % $ 332,010 Revenue in 2010 increased $53.9 million from 2009 primarily as a result of revenue increases of $33.0 million from Search, $10.9 million from ServiceMagic and $9.5 million from Media & Other. The increase from Search reflects an increase in proprietary queries and continued growth in distributed toolbars. The increase in revenue from ServiceMagic was primarily due to a more active service provider network resulting in a 35% increase in accepted domestic service requests. The increase in revenue from Media & Other was driven by growth at Pronto and the revenue associated with profit participations related to our interests in Reveille. Cost of revenue Cost of revenue $ 136,155 21 % $ 112,922 As a percentage of revenue 35% 127 bp 34% bp = basis points Cost of revenue consists primarily of traffic acquisition costs, compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in data center functions, the cost of products sold and shipping and handling costs. Traffic acquisition costs consist of revenue share payments to partners that have distributed toolbars and/or integrated paid listings into their websites and similar arrangements with third parties who direct traffic to our websites. 22 Cost of revenue in 2010 increased $23.2 million from 2009 primarily due to an increase of $25.2 million from Search, partially offset by a decrease of $3.3 million from Match. The increase in cost of revenue from Search was primarily due to an increase of $23.7 million in traffic acquisition costs. Cost of revenue from Match decreased primarily due to lower traffic acquisition costs following the sale of Match Europe. Selling and marketing expense Selling and marketing expense $ 131,152 (1 )% $ 132,900 As a percentage of revenue 34% (605 ) bp 40% Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures and compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in sales functions, marketing and promotion. Advertising and promotional expenditures include online marketing, including fees paid to search engines and third parties that distribute our toolbars, and offline marketing, including television, radio and print advertising. Selling and marketing expense in 2010 decreased $1.7 million from 2009 primarily due to a decrease of $11.8 million from Search, partially offset by an increase of $9.2 million from ServiceMagic. The decrease in selling and marketing expense from Search is primarily due to lower advertising and promotional expenditures of $9.9 million, as the prior year period included expenditures associated with the NASCAR partnership. The increase in selling and marketing expense from ServiceMagic is due to an increase of $7.5 million in online and offline marketing and an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs, due in part, to the continued expansion of its sales force. The growth in service requests during the year from paid channels outpaced the growth in free requests as a result of the increase in marketing. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense $ 77,231 5 % $ 73,634 As a percentage of revenue 20% (217) bp 22% General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in executive management, finance, legal, tax and human resources, facilities costs and fees for professional services. General and administrative expense in 2010 increased $3.6 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $4.0 million from Media & Other and $1.6 million from corporate, partially offset by a decrease of $2.3 million from Match. General and administrative expense from Media & Other increased primarily due to the continued investment in Electus and Notional, as well as increased operating expenses associated with Evite and Vimeo. The increase from corporate is principally due to an increase of $2.7 million in non-cash compensation expense related to equity grants issued subsequent to the first quarter of 2009, partially offset by lower taxes and professional fees. The decrease in general and administrative expense from Match is due to a decrease of $3.0 million in acquisition related expenses. 23 Product development expense Product development expense $ 16,617 (8 )% $ 18,088 As a percentage of revenue 4% (114 ) bp 5% Product development expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) that are not capitalized for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of product offerings and related technology. Product development expense in 2010 decreased $1.5 million from 2009 primarily due to a decrease of $2.1 million from Search, partially offset by an increase of $0.6 million from Match. Contributing to the decrease in product development expense at Search is a decrease of 7% in average headcount at IAC Search & Media and an increase in costs being capitalized in the current year period related to the development and enhancement of IAC Search & Media's product offerings and related technology. The increase in product development expense from Match is primarily due to an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs. Depreciation Depreciation $ 17,895 10 % $ 16,214 As a percentage of revenue 5% (25 ) bp 5% Depreciation in 2010 increased $1.7 million from 2009 primarily due to the write-off of certain capitalized software costs and the incremental depreciation associated with capital expenditures made during 2010 and 2009, partially offset by certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated. Operating Income Before Amortization Operating Income Before Amortization $ 29,206 NM $ (3,168 ) As a percentage of total revenue 8% NM (1)% Operating Income Before Amortization in 2010 increased $32.4 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $21.3 million, $4.9 million and $4.3 million from Search, Match and Media & Other, respectively. The increase in Operating Income Before Amortization reflects higher overall revenue and lower advertising and promotional expenditures from Search, lower traffic acquisition costs and a reduction in acquisition related expenses from Match, and the participation in profits related to our interests in Reveille from Media & Other. Operating income (loss) Operating income (loss) $ 3,527 NM $ (33,124 ) As a percentage of revenue 1% NM (10)% 24 Operating income in 2010 increased $36.7 million from 2009 primarily due to an increase of $32.4 million in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and the decreases of $4.7 million in amortization of intangibles and $2.3 million in amortization of non-cash marketing as well as the inclusion in the prior year period of a goodwill impairment charge of $1.1 million, partially offset by an increase of $3.8 million in non-cash compensation expense. The decrease in amortization of intangibles is primarily due to the write-off of certain definite-lived intangible assets at IAC Search & Media during the fourth quarter of 2009. The amortization of non-cash marketing referred to in this report consists of non-cash advertising credits secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which Vivendi Universal Entertainment, LLLP ("VUE") was created, and the subsequent transaction by which IAC sold its partnership interests in VUE. The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily due to the expense related to equity grants issued subsequent to the first quarter of 2009. As of March 31, 2010, there was $158.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to all equity-based awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.6 years. Other income (expense) Other income (expense): Interest income $ 1,635 (56 )% $ 3,728 Interest expense (1,323 ) (10 )% (1,464 ) Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates (22,613 ) 1,124 % (1,847 ) Gain on sale of investment 3,989 NM Other income 931 536 % 146 Interest income in 2010 decreased $2.1 million from 2009 primarily due to the impact of lower average interest rates and lower average investment balances throughout the period. Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates in 2010 increased $20.8 million from 2009 primarily due to an $18.3 million impairment charge to write-down the Company's investment in The HealthCentral Network, Inc. ("HealthCentral") to fair value. The decline in value was determined to be other-than-temporary due to HealthCentral's continued losses and negative operating cash flows, which are due, in part, to macroeconomic and industry specific factors. The valuation of our investment in HealthCentral reflects the Company's assessment of these factors. The Company estimated the fair value of its investment in HealthCentral using a multiple of revenue approach in the context of a different valuation environment than that which prevailed when our initial investment was made. Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates includes a loss of $1.5 million from the Company's investment in Meetic S.A. ("Meetic"), which is not in the year ago period. The loss from the investment in Meetic is primarily due to the amortization of intangibles, which is required by purchase accounting rules. Gain on sale of investment in 2010 of $4.0 million represents a gain related to the sale of our remaining shares of OpenTable, Inc. ("OpenTable"). Income tax provision In 2010, the Company recorded an income tax provision for continuing operations of $4.0 million on a pre-tax loss of $13.9 million. The continuing operations tax provision, despite a pre-tax loss, was due principally to a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset created by the impairment charge for our investment in HealthCentral, interest on tax contingencies and state taxes, partially offset by foreign income taxed at lower rates. In 2009, the Company recorded an income tax benefit for continuing operations of $2.7 million on a pre-tax loss of $32.6 million, which represents an effective 25 tax rate of 8%. This rate is lower than the federal statutory rate of 35% due principally to a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset created by losses from equity investments, non-deductible transaction costs related to the sale of Match Europe to Meetic, interest on tax contingencies and state taxes, partially offset by foreign income taxed at lower rates. The Company is routinely under audit by federal, state, local and foreign authorities in the area of income tax. These audits include questioning the timing and the amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Income taxes payable include amounts considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examination of prior year tax returns; however, the amount paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ materially from the amount provided. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts owed by the Company are recorded in the period they become known. At March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $394.9 million and $394.3 million, respectively. Unrecognized tax benefits for March 31, 2010 increased by $0.6 million due principally to a net increase in deductible temporary differences. The Company recognizes interest and, if applicable, penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Included in the income tax expense from continuing operations and discontinued operations for the three months ended March 31, 2010 is a $2.4 million expense and a $1.7 million expense, net of related deferred taxes of $1.6 million and $1.2 million, respectively, for interest on unrecognized tax benefits. At March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Company has accrued $75.5 million and $68.7 million, respectively, for the payment of interest. At March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the Company has accrued $5.0 million for penalties. The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company's tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2001 through 2006. The statute of limitations for these years has been extended to December 31, 2010. Various state, local and foreign jurisdictions are currently under examination, the most significant of which are California, New York and New York City, for various tax years beginning with December 31, 2002. These examinations are expected to be completed in 2011. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by $18.8 million within twelve months of the current reporting date primarily due to the reversal of deductible temporary differences which will primarily result in a corresponding increase in net deferred tax liabilities, and statute of limitations expirations. An estimate of other changes in unrecognized tax benefits, while potentially significant, cannot be made. On February 1, 2010, President Obama released his administration's updated proposals to modify certain aspects of the rules governing the U.S. taxation of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Many details of the proposal remain unknown and any legislation enacting such modifications would require Congressional approval; however, changes to these rules could impact the Company's effective tax rate. The Company will continue to monitor the progress of the proposals to determine the impact, if any, to the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Discontinued operations Discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations consist primarily of Quiz TV Limited and iBuy. Results from these discontinued operations, net of tax, in 2010 and 2009 were losses of $1.5 million and earnings of $1.2 million, respectively. The 2010 amount is principally due to interest on tax contingencies. The 2009 amount is principally due to iBuy. 26 Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of certain of the Company's trade names and trademarks, are tested annually for impairment as of October 1 or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of each of the Company's reporting units to its carrying value, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit using a discounted cash flow ("DCF") analysis. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and appropriate discount rates. The expected cash flows used in the DCF analyses are based on the Company's most recent budget and, for years beyond the budget, the Company's estimates, which are based, in part, on forecasted growth rates. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows of the respective reporting units. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its carrying value to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. If the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of acquired trade names and trademarks. The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined using an avoided royalty DCF valuation analysis. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis include the selection of appropriate royalty and discount rates and estimating the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets. The royalty rates used in the DCF analyses are based upon an estimate of the royalty rates that a market participant would pay to license the Company's trade names and trademarks. The Company has seven reporting units with goodwill. Of these, IAC Search & Media, InstantAction and Connected Ventures have fair values that approximate their carrying values. The amount of goodwill of each of the reporting units was $527.6 million, $31.6 million and $8.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. If operating results of these businesses vary significantly from anticipated results, future, potentially material, impairments of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets could occur. To illustrate the magnitude of potential impairment charges relative to future changes in estimated fair values, had the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units been hypothetically lower by 10% as of October 1, 2009, the carrying values of IAC Search & Media, InstantAction and Connected Ventures would have exceeded their respective fair values by approximately $80 million, $4 million and $4 million, respectively. Had the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units been hypothetically lower by 20% as of October 1, 2009, the carrying values of IAC Search & Media, InstantAction and Connected Ventures would have exceeded their respective fair values by approximately $160 million, $8 million and $8 million, respectively. 27 Any impairment charge that might result in the future would be determined based upon the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value using the second step of the impairment analysis that is described above but, in any event, would not be expected to be lower than the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit over its fair value. The primary driver in the DCF valuation analyses and the determination of the fair values of the Company's reporting units is the estimate of future revenue and profitability. Generally, the Company would expect to record an impairment if forecasted revenue and profitability are no longer expected to be achieved and as a result, the carrying value of a reporting unit(s) exceeds its fair value. This assessment would be based, in part, upon the performance of its businesses relative to budget, the Company's assessment of macroeconomic factors, industry and competitive dynamics and the strategies of its businesses in response to these factors. 28 Segment Results In addition to the discussion of consolidated results above, the following is a discussion of the results of each segment. Search Our Search segment consists primarily of Ask.com and other destination search websites through which we provide search and related advertising services, toolbars and applications through which we promote and distribute these services, and Citysearch, a leading online local city guide. Revenue increased 20% to $199.0 million, reflecting an increase in proprietary queries and continued growth in distributed toolbars. The increase in proprietary queries was driven by increased traffic acquisition efforts and enhancements associated with proprietary toolbars. Growth in distributed toolbars revenue reflects increased revenue from existing partners and the addition of new partners, partially offset by a decline in revenue per query associated with changes in our distributed toolbar's traffic mix. Citysearch's revenue declined primarily due to lower proprietary advertising and traffic, partially offset by an increase in advertising and traffic from network partners. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 208% to $31.5 million, primarily due to the higher revenue noted above and decreases of $11.8 million in selling and marketing expense and $2.1 million in product development expense, partially offset by an increase of $23.7 million in traffic acquisition costs. The decrease in selling and marketing expense is primarily due to a decrease of $9.9 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, as the prior year period included expenditures associated with the NASCAR partnership. The decrease in product development expense is primarily due to a decrease of $2.1 million in compensation and other employee-related costs due, in part, to an approximate 7% reduction in average headcount at IAC Search & Media and an increase in costs being capitalized in the current year period related to the development and enhancement of IAC Search & Media's product offerings and related technology. Operating income increased $29.8 million to $31.1 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and decreases of $6.3 million in amortization of intangibles and $2.3 million in amortization of non-cash marketing. The decrease in amortization of intangibles is due to the write-off of certain definite-lived intangible assets at IAC Search & Media during the fourth quarter of 2009. Match Revenue declined 1% to $89.3 million, reflecting the sale of Match Europe to Meetic on June 5, 2009, partially offset by a combined $12.2 million contribution from People Media, acquired July 13, 2009, and Singlesnet, acquired March 2, 2010, and solid growth in the U.S. business. Excluding the results of Match Europe from the prior period and People Media and Singlesnet from the current period, revenue grew 8% driven by a 2% increase in U.S. subscribers and the impact of a change in estimate related to the reserve for refunds and chargebacks. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 49% to $14.8 million despite the slight decrease in revenue noted above, primarily due to decreases of $3.3 million in cost of revenue and $2.3 million in general and administrative expense. The decrease in cost of revenue is primarily due to lower traffic acquisition costs following the sale of Match Europe. The decrease in general and administrative expense was principally due to a reduction of $3.0 million in acquisition related expenses. Operating income increased 41% to $13.7 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above, partially offset by an increase of $1.0 million in amortization of intangibles, relating primarily to the acquisition of People Media. 29 ServiceMagic Revenue grew 35% to $42.2 million, benefiting from a 35% increase in the number of times domestic service requests are accepted by a domestic service professional. During 2010, ServiceMagic experienced increases of 40% and 26% in both domestic service requests and service providers, respectively. A service request can be transmitted to and accepted by more than one service professional. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 2% to $2.9 million reflecting the reversal in 2010 of a $1.5 million provision for contingent consideration related to the 2009 acquisition of Market Hardware, which will not be earned. Operating Income Before Amortization was adversely impacted by increases of $9.2 million in selling and marketing expense and $2.4 million in general and administrative expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily driven by an increase of $7.5 million in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online and offline marketing. The growth in service requests during the year from paid channels outpaced the growth in free requests as a result of the increase in marketing. Also contributing to the increase in selling and marketing expense is an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs, due in part, to the continued expansion of its sales force. The increase in general and administrative expense is primarily due to an increase of $1.3 million in compensation and other employee-related costs driven by growth in headcount related to acquisitions that took place in 2009. Operating income increased 20% to $2.4 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and slight decreases in amortization of intangibles and non-cash compensation expense. Media & Other Revenue increased 20% to $55.9 million primarily reflecting the growth at Pronto, driven by continued improvements in customer acquisition and monetization, as well as growth at The Daily Beast, Gifts.com and Vimeo. Also impacting revenue is the inclusion in the current year period of revenue associated with profit participations related to our interests in Reveille, partially offset by revenue in the prior year period associated with ReserveAmerica before its sale on January 31, 2009. Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $4.3 million to a loss of $6.8 million. Losses decreased due primarily to $3.1 million in profit participations related to our interests in Reveille noted above, $2.9 million in cost savings related to the shutdown or sale of certain businesses that took place in 2009 and profitability at Gifts.com, partially offset by increased operating expenses associated with The Daily Beast and Electus. Operating loss decreased by $3.6 million to $9.2 million primarily due to the decreased Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above, the impact in 2009 of a $1.1 million goodwill impairment charge related to our gift card business, partially offset by increases in non-cash compensation expense and amortization of intangibles of $1.0 million and $0.8 million, respectively. Corporate Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $1.8 million to a loss of $13.2 million primarily due to lower depreciation expense, taxes and professional fees. Operating loss increased $1.2 million to $34.4 million despite the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above due to an increase of $3.0 million in non-cash compensation expense. The increase in non-cash compensation is primarily due to the expense related to equity grants issued subsequent to the first quarter of 2009. 30 FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, 2010, the Company had $952.3 million of cash and cash equivalents, $575.1 million of marketable securities and $95.8 million in long-term debt. Long-term debt consists of $80.0 million in Liberty Bonds due September 1, 2035 and $15.8 million in 7% Senior Notes due 2013. During the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company purchased 11.1 million and 2.4 million shares of IAC common stock for aggregate consideration, on a trade date basis, of $245.5 million and $36.6 million, respectively. On February 26, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of IAC common stock. At April 23, 2010, IAC had approximately 19.2 million shares remaining in its share repurchase authorization. IAC may purchase shares over an indefinite period of time, depending on those factors IAC management deems relevant at any particular time, including, without limitation, market conditions, share price and future outlook. Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations was $56.4 million and $48.7 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase of $7.7 million in net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations is primarily due to higher cash tax refunds in 2010, partially offset by the payment of the 2009 discretionary cash bonuses in 2010, whereas the 2008 discretionary cash bonus was paid in the fourth quarter of 2008. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2010 of $108.9 million includes $89.3 million related to the net purchases, sales and maturities of marketable debt securities, capital expenditures of $12.6 million and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $9.8 million, partially offset by the proceeds of $5.3 million from the sale of the Company's remaining shares of OpenTable. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2009 of $121.4 million includes $91.6 million related to the net purchases, sales and maturities of marketable debt securities, acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $11.5 million and capital expenditures of $8.6 million. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2010 of $238.9 million includes the purchase of treasury stock of $246.2 million, partially offset by excess tax benefits from stock-based awards of $4.8 million. Net cash provided by financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2009 of $120.7 million includes the proceeds related to the issuance of common stock, net of withholding taxes, of $148.8 million, partially offset by the purchase of treasury stock of $29.2 million. Included in the proceeds related to the issuance of common stock are aggregate proceeds of $150.9 million from the exercise of warrants to acquire 11.5 million shares of IAC common stock that were due to expire on February 4, 2009. The strike price of the warrants was $13.09 per share. IAC anticipates that it will need to make capital and other expenditures in connection with the development and expansion of its overall operations. The Company may make a number of acquisitions which could result in the reduction of its cash balance or the incurrence of debt. IAC expects that 2010 capital expenditures will be slightly higher than 2009. IAC believes that its cash on hand along with its anticipated operating cash flows in 2010 and its access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, capital, investing and other commitments and contingencies for the foreseeable future. 31 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS Long-term obligations(b) $ 201,171 $ 5,109 $ 10,218 $ 23,844 $ 162,000 Purchase obligations(c) 4,020 893 1,787 1,340 Operating leases 303,274 21,027 38,906 27,585 215,756 Total contractual cash obligations $ 508,465 $ 27,029 $ 50,911 $ 52,769 $ 377,756 (a) At March 31, 2010, the Company has recorded $470.4 million of unrecognized tax benefits which includes accrued interest of $75.5 million. This amount includes $290.4 million for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest that could result in future net cash payments to taxing authorities. The Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the expected period of cash settlement of these items. (b) Represents contractual amounts due, including interest. (c) The purchase obligations primarily relate to minimum payments due under telecommunication contracts related to data transmission lines. 32 IAC'S PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING IAC reports Operating Income Before Amortization as a supplemental measure to generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This measure is one of the primary metrics by which we evaluate the performance of our businesses, on which our internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. We believe that investors should have access to, and we are obligated to provide, the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. IAC endeavors to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measure presented by providing the comparable GAAP measure with equal or greater prominence, financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measure. We encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measure which we discuss below. Definition of IAC's Non-GAAP Measure Operating Income Before Amortization is defined as operating income excluding, if applicable: (1) non-cash compensation expense, (2) amortization of non-cash marketing, (3) amortization and impairment of intangibles, (4) goodwill impairment, (5) pro forma adjustments for significant acquisitions, and (6) one-time items. We believe this measure is useful to investors because it represents the consolidated operating results from IAC's segments, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of any other non-cash expenses. Operating Income Before Amortization has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to IAC's statement of operations of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash marketing, and acquisition-related accounting. Pro Forma Results We will only present Operating Income Before Amortization on a pro forma basis if we view a particular transaction as significant in size or transformational in nature. For the periods presented in this report, there are no transactions that we have included on a pro forma basis. One-Time Items Operating Income Before Amortization is presented before one-time items, if applicable. These items are truly one-time in nature and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, and have not occurred in the past two years or are not expected to recur in the next two years, in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules. For the periods presented in this report, there are no one-time items. Non-Cash Expenses That Are Excluded From IAC's Non-GAAP Measure Non-cash compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with the grants, including unvested grants assumed in acquisitions, of restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options. These expenses are not paid in cash, and we include the related shares in our fully diluted shares outstanding which, for restricted stock units and stock options, are included on a treasury method basis. Upon vesting of restricted stock and restricted stock units and the exercise of certain stock options, the awards are settled, at the Company's discretion, on a net basis, with the Company remitting the required tax withholding amount from its current funds. Amortization of non-cash marketing consists of non-cash advertising credits secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which VUE was created, and the subsequent transaction by which IAC sold its partnership interests in VUE (collectively referred to as "NBC Universal Advertising"). The NBC Universal Advertising was available for television advertising on 33 various NBC Universal network and cable channels without any cash cost. There are no NBC Universal Advertising credits available as all credits were used prior to December 31, 2009. The NBC Universal Advertising is excluded from Operating Income Before Amortization because it is non-cash and generally is incremental to the advertising the Company otherwise secures as a result of its ordinary cost/benefit marketing planning process. Accordingly, the Company's aggregate level of advertising, and the increased concentration of that advertising on NBC Universal network and cable channels, does not reflect what our advertising effort would otherwise be without these credits. As a result, management believes that treating the NBC Universal Advertising as an expense does not appropriately reflect its true cost/benefit relationship, nor does it best reflect the Company's long-term level of advertising expenditures. Nonetheless, while the benefits directly attributable to television advertising are always difficult to determine, and especially so with respect to the NBC Universal Advertising due to its incrementality and heavy concentration, it is likely that the Company does derive benefits from it, though management believes such benefits are generally less than those received through its regular advertising for the reasons stated above. Operating Income Before Amortization therefore has the limitation of including those benefits while excluding the associated expense. Amortization of intangibles (including impairment of intangibles, if applicable) is a non-cash expense relating primarily to acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the intangible assets of the acquired company, such as technology and supplier agreements, are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. Value is also assigned to acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, which comprise trade names and trademarks, which are not subject to amortization. An impairment is recorded when the carrying value of an intangible asset exceeds its fair value. While it is likely that we will have intangible amortization expense as we continue to acquire companies, we believe that intangible assets represent costs incurred by the acquired company to build value prior to acquisition and the related amortization is not an ongoing cost of doing business. RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION For a reconciliation of Operating Income Before Amortization to operating income (loss) by business and to net loss attributable to IAC shareholders in total for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. 34