Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 27 and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" beginning on page 54. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "IAC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. History Since its inception, IAC has transformed itself from a hybrid media/electronic retailing company into a leading internet company. IAC was incorporated in July 1986 in Delaware under the name Silver King Broadcasting Company, Inc., as a subsidiary of Home Shopping Network, Inc. In December 1992, Home Shopping Network distributed the capital stock of Silver King to its stockholders. In December 1996, the Company completed mergers with Savoy Pictures Entertainment, Inc. and Home Shopping Network, with Savoy and Home Shopping Network becoming subsidiaries of Silver King. In connection with these mergers, the Company changed its name to HSN, Inc. The Company acquired a controlling interest in Ticketmaster Group, Inc. in 1997 and the remaining interest in 1998. In 1998, upon the purchase of USA Networks and Studios USA from Universal Studios, Inc., the Company was renamed USA Networks, Inc. From 1999 through 2001, the Company acquired Hotel Reservations Network (later renamed Hotels.com), Match.com and other smaller e-commerce companies. In 2001, the Company sold USA Broadcasting to Univision Communications, Inc. In February 2002, the Company acquired a controlling stake in Expedia.com. In May 2002, after contributing its entertainment assets to Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, or VUE, a joint venture then controlled by Vivendi, the Company changed its name to USA Interactive. In September 2002, the Company acquired Interval International. In 2003, the Company acquired the minority interests in its former public subsidiaries, Expedia.com, Hotels.com and Ticketmaster, and acquired a number of other companies, including Entertainment Publications, Inc. ("EPI"), LendingTree and Hotwire. The Company changed its name to InterActiveCorp in June 2003 and to IAC/InterActiveCorp in July 2004. On August 9, 2005, IAC completed the separation of its travel and travel-related businesses and investments into an independent public company. IAC also completed the following transactions in 2005: the acquisition of IAC Search & Media (formerly known as Ask Jeeves, Inc.), the results of operations of which are now reported within our Search segment (July 2005), a transaction with NBC Universal in which IAC sold its common and preferred interests in VUE (June 2005) and the acquisition of Cornerstone Brands, Inc. ("Cornerstone Brands") (April 2005). In November 2006, IAC sold PRC, LLC, its teleservices subsidiary. In June 2007, the Company sold its German TV and internet retailer, HSE Germany. In July 2008, the Company acquired the 2 Table of Contents Lexico Publishing Group, owner of reference websites Dictionary.com, Thesaurus.com and Reference.com, and in June 2008, the Company sold EPI. On August 20, 2008, IAC separated into five publicly traded companies: IAC, HSN, Inc. ("HSNi"), Interval Leisure Group, Inc. ("ILG"), Ticketmaster and Tree.com, Inc. ("Tree.com"). In this report, we refer to this transaction as the "Spin-Off." Immediately following the Spin-Off, IAC effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. In January 2009, we sold ReserveAmerica, a leading provider of campground reservation services and software to United States federal and state agencies. In June 2009, we sold the European operations of Match.com to Meetic, S.A., a leading European online dating company based in France ("Meetic"), in exchange for a 27% interest in Meetic and a 5 million note. In July 2009, we acquired PeopleMedia, a leading operator of targeted dating websites. In May 2010, we acquired a majority stake in DailyBurn.com, a diet and fitness tracking website. In June 2010, Citysearch changed its name to CityGrid Media in connection with the launch of CityGrid, its local advertising network, and its transformation from an owner and operator of local, consumer-oriented websites into one of the largest local advertising networks on the web. In December 2010, we exchanged the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary that held our Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions businesses and approximately $218 million in cash for substantially all of Liberty Media Corporation's equity stake in IAC. See "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNotes 1 and 12." In February 2011, we acquired OkCupid, an advertiser-supported online personals service. During the third quarter of 2011, through Match, we increased our ownership stake in Meetic to 81%. EQUITY OWNERSHIP AND VOTE IAC has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and Class B common stock, with ten votes per share and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of January 27, 2012, Barry Diller, IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, owned 5,789,499 shares of Class B common stock (the "Diller Shares") representing 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 43.4% of the outstanding total voting power of IAC. Pursuant to an agreement between Mr. Diller and IAC, certain transfer restrictions apply to 1.5 million of the Diller Shares, including a requirement that, until December 1, 2015 and except for transfers to certain permitted transferees, the Diller Shares must first be converted into common stock in order to be transferred. In addition, pursuant to an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelve-month period. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller is currently in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IAC's Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. 3 Table of Contents DESCRIPTION OF IAC BUSINESSES Search Overview Our Search segment consists of: (i) Mindspark Interactive Network ("Mindspark"), a digital consumer products business consisting of our B2C operations, through which we develop, market and distribute downloadable applications, and our B2B operations, through which we provide customized browser-based applications for software and media companies; (ii) destination websites, including Ask.com and Dictionary.com, through which we provide search and additional services; and (iii) CityGrid Media, an online media company that aggregates and integrates local content and advertising for distribution to publishers across web and mobile platforms. Search services generally involve the generation and display of a set of hyperlinks to websites, together with summary information regarding these websites, deemed relevant to search queries entered by users. In addition to these algorithmic search results, paid listings are also generally displayed in response to search queries. Paid listings are advertisements displayed on search results pages in response to search queries that contain advertiser-selected keywords. A paid listing is generally a short textual advertising unit containing a link to the website of an advertiser that purchased the relevant keyword(s). The Search segment's revenue consists principally of advertising revenue, which is derived primarily from the display of paid listings, as well as from the display of other advertising in connection with the provision of search and other services. The substantial majority of the paid listings we display are supplied to us by Google pursuant to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on March 31, 2016. Pursuant to this agreement, we transmit search queries to Google, which in turn transmits a set of relevant and responsive paid listings back to us for display in search results. This ad-serving process occurs independently of, but concurrently with, the generation of algorithmic search results for the same search queries. Google paid listings are displayed separately from algorithmic search results and are identified as "sponsored" listings on search results pages. To a lesser extent, we also syndicate Google paid listings through third parties with whom we enter into syndication agreements. See "Item 1ARisk FactorsWe depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse change in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations." In addition, we sell display advertising on our destination search and other websites. In the case of CityGrid Media, revenue is derived primarily from the sale of local and national online advertising distributed through CityGrid, our leading local content and advertising network. Toolbars Through Mindspark, we develop, market and distribute a variety of downloadable toolbars through which users can access search services, as well as a variety of applications through which users can creatively and visually express themselves and interact online. The majority of these toolbars consist of a search box and related technology (which together enable users to run search queries and otherwise access search services directly from their web browsers), together with applications we have developed that enable users to personalize their online activities and otherwise make them more expressive and fun. These applications include: MyFunCards, through which users can send online greeting cards; Popular Screensavers, through which users can personalize their desktops with photos, images and animations; Webfetti and CursorMania, through which users can personalize pages on various social networking websites; Zwinky, through which users can create avatars to express their online persona and design and update profile pages to share with friends; IWON, through which users can access their favorite online games from IWON.com and elsewhere directly from their web browsers; Smiley Central, through which users can add emoticons to e-mails and instant messages; MyWebFace, through which users can create cartoon-like images of themselves for download or use in connection with their profile 4 Table of Contents pages on social networks; Retrogamer, through which users can access their favorite classic arcade, sports and action games directly from their web browsers; and CouponAlert, through which users can access coupons and online promotions. We also develop, market and distribute toolbars that target users with a passionate interest in select vertical categories (such as movies, television, sports and gossip, among others). In addition to a search box and related technology, these toolbars provide users with the ability to access primarily third party online content and services relating to various vertical categories directly from their web browsers. We distribute these toolbars and applications directly to consumers free of charge and we refer to them as Mindspark's "B2C operations." We also market and distribute Ask.com branded and custom toolbars to third parties through the Ask Partner Network, a leading provider of custom applications and search solutions to software, media and other companies. Ask Partner Network works closely with third parties to design and develop customized browser-based applications, which are highly-targeted, custom toolbars that, when bundled with third party applications and websites, extend services into web browsers and enhance end-user experiences online. We refer to toolbars and applications marketed and distributed through Ask Partner Network as Mindspark's "B2B operations." Destination Search and Other Websites We also operate a number of destination websites and portals through which we provide search and additional services, including: Ask.com, which provides general search services, as well as question and answer services that provide direct answers to natural-language questions; Dictionary.com, which provides online dictionary, reference, educational and learning services; IWON.com, which offers a variety of casual games and sweepstakes; Girlsense.com, which provides a virtual fashion community for girls and teens; MyWebSearch.com, which provides users with home page and search services; MyWay.com, which is free from banner, pop-up and rich-media ads and through which we provide general search and e-mail services; and Excite.com, a content-rich portal that aggregates news, sports, weather and entertainment content. Mobile Applications We market and distribute a number of mobile applications through which we provide search and additional services, including: the Ask.com iPhone, iPad and Android applications, which provide general search and natural-language question and answer services; the Dictionary.com iPhone, iPad and Android applications, which provide dictionary, reference, educational and learning services; and various DailyBurn iPhone, iPad and Android applications, which track nutritional and fitness information and activities. Revenue Substantially all of the revenue from our Search segment is derived from online advertising, with most of this revenue attributable to our paid listing supply agreement with Google. When a user submits a search query through properties and services within our Search segment and clicks on a Google paid listing displayed in response to the query, Google bills the advertiser that purchased the paid listing directly and shares a portion of its related paid listing fee with us, which we in turn either retain in its entirety or share with third parties. In some cases, Google does not charge advertisers unless our user, after clicking on the paid listing, also takes certain actions on the advertiser's website. To a lesser extent, revenue is also derived from the sale of display and other advertising pursuant to a variety of advertising models, including on a fixed fee per impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-action basis and the syndication of search results generated by Ask-branded destination search websites. 5 Table of Contents Competition We compete with a wide variety of parties in connection with our efforts to: (i) attract users to our various search properties and search and other services generally; (ii) develop, market and distribute toolbars and related applications; (iii) attract third parties to distribute our toolbars, search boxes and related technology; and (iv) attract advertisers. In the case of our search services, our competitors include Google, Yahoo!, Bing and other destination search websites and search-centric portals (some of which provide a broad range of content and services and/or link to various desktop applications), third party toolbar, convenience search and applications providers, other search technology and convenience service providers (including internet access providers, social networks, online advertising networks, traditional media companies and companies that provide online content). Moreover, some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they have the ability to devote comparatively greater resources to the development and promotion of their products and services, which could result in greater market acceptance of their products and services relative to those offered by us. In the case of our Mindspark business, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon our continued ability to create toolbars and other applications that resonate with consumers (which requires that we continue to bundle attractive features, content and services, some of which may be owned by third parties, with quality search services), differentiate our toolbars and other applications from those of our competitors (primarily through providing customized toolbars and access to multiple search and other services through our toolbars), secure cost-effective distribution arrangements with third parties and market and distribute toolbars and other applications directly to consumers in a cost-effective manner, as well as attract advertisers. In the case of our destination search websites, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the relevance and authority of our search results, answers and other content, the functionality of our various destination search websites and the quality of related content and features and the attractiveness of our services generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors. Our current goal is to differentiate Ask.com from its competitors through question and answer services that provide accurate, authoritative and direct answers to natural-language questions (in the form of algorithmic search results and/or responses from other Ask.com users). The success of this initiative depends primarily upon our ability to deliver authoritative and trustworthy content to users, as well as our ability to attract advertisers to this initiative. CityGrid Media Overview. CityGrid Media is an online media company that operates CityGrid, a leading local content and advertising network through which local business listings, advertising and content are distributed to publishers across web and mobile platforms, as well as consumer-oriented websites Citysearch.com, InsiderPages.com and Urbanspoon.com. CityGrid. Through CityGrid, we aggregate local business listings, advertising and content, including editorial and other user-generated content and related information ("CityGrid Advertising"), which we then distribute to websites and mobile applications affiliated with CityGrid. Websites and mobile applications affiliated with CityGrid include third party websites and mobile applications, as well as the websites and applications we own and operate described below (the "CityGrid Properties"). Owned and Operated Properties. CityGrid Media owns and operates Citysearch.com, InsiderPages.com and Urbanspoon.com, websites (and related mobile applications in the case of Citysearch.com and Urbanspoon.com) that connect consumers with local businesses by providing consumers with free access to local business profiles, customized messages from local businesses, 6 Table of Contents reviews and user-generated content and related information. Citysearch.com is a comprehensive directory of local business listings and related information across most verticals of businesses in the United States. InsiderPages.com publishes content regarding professional service providers based in the United States. Urbanspoon.com publishes content focused exclusively on restaurants and dining in North America, the United Kingdom and Australia. Advertising Services. CityGrid Advertising is sold to businesses through direct sales and resellers. In the case of direct sales, we sell CityGrid Advertising directly to businesses through field sales teams in major metropolitan areas within the United States, as well as through in house sales teams catering to various types of advertisers ( i.e. , local businesses, businesses covering multiple regions or with multiple locations and advertising agencies) and an online self-enrollment model. CityGrid Advertising is also sold through resellers (third parties with their own independent advertising sales forces). CityGrid Advertising is then published on CityGrid Properties. Revenue. CityGrid Media revenue is derived primarily from the sale of CityGrid Advertising. In the case of direct sales, advertising is sold primarily pursuant to a pay-for-performance-based model. Under this model, local businesses pay CityGrid Media a fee each time their enhanced business listing (or select information from such listing) is viewed on a CityGrid Property or a user calls a metered number to reach a business. In the case of resellers, advertisers pay resellers for CityGrid Advertising, which resellers in turn share the revenue received with CityGrid Media pursuant to a variety of models, the specifics of which vary by reseller and the substantial majority of which have some performance-based element. When we publish CityGrid Advertising on our owned and operated CityGrid Properties, we retain all of the revenue paid to us by our direct sales customers and all of the amounts paid to us by our resellers. When CityGrid Advertising is published and viewed by an end user on a third party CityGrid Property, we share the related revenue we receive with the applicable third party CityGrid Property. Revenue is also derived from our sale of local merchant and national display advertising on owned and operated CityGrid Properties on a per impression and fixed fee basis. Competition. The markets for local business advertising and content are highly competitive and diverse. We primarily compete with online and offline local and national directories and online and mobile advertising services and networks. We also face competition from search engines and other site aggregation companies that aggregate our content for display on their websites, which interferes with search engine optimization and marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to CityGrid Properties. Match Overview Through the brands and businesses within our Match segment, we are a leading provider of subscription-based and advertiser-supported online personals services in the United States and various European and Latin American jurisdictions abroad. We provide these services through websites that we own and operate in twenty-five countries, in seven languages and on four continents, as well as through our mobile applications. Through Match, we own an 81% stake in Meetic, a European online dating company based in France through which we provide online personals services in certain European jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2011, we collectively provided online personals services to approximately 2.7 million subscribers. In February 2011, we acquired OkCupid, an advertiser-supported online personals service in the United States. During the third quarter of 2011, we increased our ownership stake in Meetic to 81% and acquired a 20% interest in Zhenai Inc., a leading provider of online matchmaking services in China. We are also the exclusive provider of subscription-based personals services on Yahoo.com. 7 Table of Contents We refer to Match.com in the United States, Chemistry and PeopleMedia (through which we operate targeted dating websites) as Match's "Core" operations and to OkCupid, Singlesnet, mobile-only products and non-Meetic international operations as Match's "Developing" operations. Services We primarily provide online personals services through branded websites that we own and operate, including Match.com, Chemistry.com, OurTime.com, BlackPeopleMeet.com and OkCupid.com, and through a variety of Meetic-branded websites abroad. These websites, all of which provide single adults with a private and convenient environment for meeting other single adults, primarily provide online personals services to registered members (those establishing usernames and passwords) and subscribers (those who establish a username and password and pay a subscription fee). Within our portfolio of websites, we have both subscription-based and advertising-supported offerings. Our subscription-based websites offer registered members the ability to post a profile and use any related searching and matching tools free of charge, while subscribers have access to enhanced tools and a broader feature set, including the ability to initiate, review or respond to communications from other users. Our subscription programs consist of programs with a single-month term, with discounts for programs with various longer terms. Our advertiser-supported websites generally provide online personals services with basic functionality without the commitment of a monthly subscription, in some cases making a variety of premium or add-on features available for a fee. We also offer access to our services via various mobile devices through our matchMobile service and other branded mobile applications. Marketing We market our services through a wide variety of offline and online marketing activities. Our offline marketing activities consist of traditional marketing and business development activities, including television, print, radio and outdoor advertising and related public relations efforts. Our online marketing activities consist primarily of the purchase of banner and other display advertising, search engine marketing and targeted e-mail campaigns. In addition, we enter into a variety of alliances with third parties who advertise and promote our services. Some alliances are exclusive and some, but not all, contain renewal provisions. In connection with the exclusive provision of subscription-based personals services on Yahoo.com, we agreed to make certain advertising commitments. These commitments are reducible or terminable in certain circumstances. Revenue Match's revenue is derived principally from subscription fees for our subscription-based online personals and related services, as well as from online advertising, primarily from our OkCupid service. Competition The personals business is very competitive and highly fragmented in the United States and abroad and barriers to entry are minimal. We compete primarily with online and offline broad-based personals, dating and matchmaking services (both paid and free), social networking websites and applications, the personals sections of newspapers and magazines, other conventional media companies that provide personals services and traditional venues where singles meet (both online and offline). We also compete with numerous online and offline personals, dating and matchmaking services that cater to specific demographic groups. 8 Table of Contents We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size and diversity of our registered member and subscriber bases relative to those of our competitors; the functionality of our websites and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors; how quickly we can enhance our existing technology and services and/or develop new features and services in response to: new, emerging and rapidly changing technologies; the introduction of product and service offerings by our competitors; evolving industry standards; and changes in consumer requirements and trends in the single community relative to our competitors; and our ability to engage in cost-effective marketing efforts, including by way of maintaining relationships with third parties with which we have entered into alliances, and the recognition and strength of our various brands relative to those of our competitors. ServiceMagic Overview ServiceMagic is a leading online marketplace in the United States that connects consumers, by way of patented proprietary technologies, with home and other local service professionals, all of which are pre-screened and the majority of which are customer-rated. When consumers submit a service request through the ServiceMagic marketplace, ServiceMagic generally matches them with up to four members from its network of service professionals, which as of December 31, 2011, consisted of more than 80,000 service professionals in the United States providing services in more than 700 categories, primarily home service-related, ranging from simple home repairs to home remodeling projects. Through ServiceMagic International, we search for local lead generation business opportunities around the world and hold a majority interest in ServiceMagic Europe, which operates businesses in the local lead generation space in France and the United Kingdom, including Travaux.com, a leading French website for consumer information regarding home improvement; 123Devis.com, a French lead generation business with one of the largest networks of home service professionals in France; and 123GetAQuote.co.uk, a leading lead generation platform for home service professionals in the United Kingdom. Services Through our Market Match service, we generally match consumers with up to four service professionals from our network based upon service requests that specify the type of services desired and the consumer's zip code. Through our Exact Match service, consumers can review service professional profiles and select the service professional that they believe best meets their specific needs. Consumers can also be matched to a service professional by way of 1800Contractor.com, an online directory of our network of service professionals that we own and operate. Consumers that visit this site are ultimately matched to a service professional by way of our Exact Match service or, if a match cannot be made through this service, by way of our Market Match service. 9 Table of Contents In all cases, if a match is made through our services, consumers are under no obligation to work with service professionals referred by ServiceMagic. In addition, if we are unable to match a consumer with service professionals from our network, we may provide the consumer with contact information concerning service professionals outside of our network. In addition to our matching services, consumers may also access our online library of service-related resources, which primarily include articles about home improvement, repair and maintenance, and related tools to assist consumers with the research, planning and management of their projects, and general advice for working with service professionals. Marketing We market our services to consumers primarily through search engine marketing, as well as through affiliate agreements with third parties. Pursuant to these agreements, third parties agree to advertise and promote our services and the services of our member service professionals on their websites and we agree to pay them a fixed fee when visitors from their websites submit a valid service request through our website (on a cost-per-acquisition basis) or click through to our website (on a cost-per-click basis). We also market our services to consumers through the purchase of paid listings displayed in yellow page directories, portals and contextual home improvement related sites and, to a lesser extent, through traditional offline advertising. We market our services to service professionals through our sales force, which obtains information concerning service professionals through a variety of sources. We also promote online enrollment in our network through search engine marketing, relationships with trade associations and affiliate marketing relationships. Revenue ServiceMagic's revenue is derived from fees paid by members of our network of service professionals for consumer leads, regardless of whether the service professional that receives the lead ultimately provides the requested service, as well as from one-time fees charged upon the enrollment and activation of new service professionals in our network. Lead fees vary based upon the service requested and where the service is provided, with fees for leads generated through our Exact Match service being greater than those for leads generated through our Market Match service. Competition We currently compete with other service-related lead generation services, primarily home service-related lead generation services, as well as with internet search engines and directories and with other forms of local advertising, including radio, direct marketing campaigns, yellow pages, newspapers and other offline directories. We also compete with local and national retailers of home improvement products that offer or promote installation services. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size, quality (as determined, in part, by reference to our pre-screening efforts and customer ratings and reviews), diversity and stability of our network of service professionals and the quality of services provided by these professionals; our continued ability to deliver consumer leads that convert into revenue for our network of service professionals in a cost-effective manner; and the functionality of our websites and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers and service professionals, as well as our ability to introduce new products and services that resonate with consumers and service professionals. 10 Table of Contents Media & Other Our Media & Other segment consists primarily of Electus, Connected Ventures, Vimeo, Pronto, Shoebuy and Hatch Labs. Electus is a multimedia company that seeks to enable media content creators to engage with advertising and technology partners at the inception of the creative process and partner on the finished product across a global and multi-platform distribution model. Connected Ventures is a new media network and development company that operates: CollegeHumor Media, a leading online entertainment company targeting a core audience of young males ages eighteen to twenty-four through CollegeHumor.com and other websites; and Notional, a production company specializing in the creation of video content for all distribution platforms. Vimeo is a website on which users can upload, share and view video. Pronto owns and operates Pronto.com, a leading comparison search engine, through which consumers can search and compare prices for a wide range of merchandise offered by online retailers. Shoebuy, a leading internet retailer of footwear and related apparel and accessories, generally passes purchases made by customers through its various websites on to the relevant vendors for fulfillment and shipping. Hatch Labs is a business focused on prototyping and launching mobile products and services. Through January 2011, we owned and operated The Daily Beast, which was merged with print magazine Newsweek to form a joint venture on January 31, 2011. The Daily Beast is a website dedicated to news and commentary, culture and entertainment that curates and provides existing online content and new works from its own roster of contributors to users free of charge. In the case of our Media & Other segment, revenue is derived from merchandise sales, online advertising, media production and subscriptions. Employees As of December 31, 2011, IAC and its subsidiaries employed approximately 3,200 full-time employees. IAC believes that it generally has good employee relationships, including relationships with employees represented by unions or other similar organizations. Additional Information Company Website and Public Filings. The Company maintains a website at www.iac.com. Neither the information on the Company's website, nor the information on the website of any IAC business, is incorporated by reference in this report, or in any other filings with, or in any other information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC. Code of Ethics. The Company's code of ethics, as amended in April 2009, applies to all employees (including all of IAC's executive officers and senior financial officers (including IAC's Chief Financial Officer and Controller)) and directors and is posted on the Company's website at www.iac.com/Investors/amend-and-restated. This code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K, and any waivers of such provisions of the code of ethics for IAC's executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, will also be disclosed on IAC's website. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This annual report on Form 10-K contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: IAC's future financial performance, IAC's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the industries in which IAC's businesses operate and other similar matters. These forward-looking statements are based on IAC management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect IAC's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which only reflect the views of IAC management as of the date of this annual report. IAC does not undertake to update these forward-looking statements. Risk Factors Mr. Diller owns a significant percentage of the voting power of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over the composition of our Board of Directors, matters subject to stockholder approval and our operations. As of January 27, 2012, Mr. Diller owned 5,789,499 shares of IAC Class B common stock representing 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 43.4% of the total outstanding voting power of IAC. As of this date, Mr. Diller also owned 705,734 vested options to purchase IAC common stock and 300,000 unvested options to purchase IAC common stock. In addition, under an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelve-month period. While Mr. Diller may not currently exercise this right, no assurances can be given that this right will not become exercisable in the future, and if so, that Mr. Diller will consent to any of the limited matters at such time, in which case IAC would not be able to engage in transactions or take actions covered by this consent right. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller currently is in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IAC's Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of voting power could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to IAC, which could adversely affect the market price of IAC securities. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of our senior management being 12 Table of Contents especially critical to our success. Competition for well-qualified employees across IAC and its various businesses is intense and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future. We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse change in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on March 31, 2016. Pursuant to this agreement, we display and syndicate paid listings provided by Google in response to search queries generated by users of our search services that contain keywords selected and purchased by advertisers through Google. In exchange for making our search traffic available to Google, we receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listings supplied to us, as well as certain other search-related services. The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements, the efficiency of Google's system in attracting advertisers and serving up paid listings in response to search queries and parameters established by Google regarding the number and placement of paid listings displayed in response to search queries. In addition, Google makes judgments about the relative attractiveness (to the advertiser) of clicks on paid listings from searches performed on our search services and these judgments factor into the amount of revenue we receive. Changes to Google's paid listings network efficiency, its judgment about the relative attractiveness of clicks on paid listings from our search services or the parameters applicable to the display of paid listings could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such changes could come about for a number of reasons, including general market conditions, competition or policy and operating decisions made by Google. Our paid listing supply agreement requires that we comply with certain guidelines promulgated by Google for the use of its brands and services, including the manner in which Google's paid listings are displayed with search results, and that we establish guidelines to govern certain activities of third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings, including the manner in which these parties drive search traffic to their websites and display paid listings. Subject to certain limitations, Google may unilaterally update its policies and guidelines, which could in turn require modifications to, or prohibit and/or render obsolete certain of, our products, services and/or business practices, which could be costly to address or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with Google's guidelines by us or the third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings or through which we secure distribution arrangements for our toolbars could, if not cured, result in Google's suspension of some or all of its services to our websites or the websites of our third party partners, the imposition of additional restrictions on our ability to syndicate paid listings or the termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google. The termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google, the curtailment of IAC's rights under the agreement (whether pursuant to the terms thereof or otherwise) or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to obtain a renewal of our agreement with Google with substantially comparable economic and other terms upon the expiration of our current agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these events were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if an alternate provider were found, the economic and other terms of the agreement and 13 Table of Contents the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenues. General economic events or trends that reduce advertising spending could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to online advertising. Accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to events and trends that could result in decreased advertising expenditures. Advertising expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, as well as levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Small and local businesses with which we do business are particularly sensitive to these events and trends, given that they are not as well situated to weather adverse economic conditions as their larger competitors, which are generally better capitalized and have greater access to credit. In the recent past, adverse economic conditions have caused, and if such conditions were to recur in the future they could cause, decreases and/or delays in advertising expenditures, which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising, particularly paid listings, as an effective alternative to traditional, offline advertising and the continued commercial use of the internet. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete with traditional media, including television, radio and print, in addition to a multitude of websites with high levels of traffic and online advertising networks, for a share of available advertising expenditures and expect to face continued competition as more emerging media and traditional offline media companies enter the online advertising market. We believe that the continued growth and continued acceptance of online advertising generally will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models (particularly in the case of models that incorporate user targeting), the continued growth in commercial use of the internet (particularly abroad), the extent to which web browsers and/or software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being displayed become commonplace and the extent to which the industry is able to effectively manage click fraud. Any lack of growth in the market for online advertising, particularly for paid listings, or any decrease in the effectiveness and value of online advertising (whether due to the passage of laws requiring additional disclosure and/or opt-in policies for advertising that incorporates user targeting or other developments) would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, in part, upon arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into users and customers. We engage in a variety of activities designed to attract traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites, as well as the continued introduction of new and enhanced products and services that resonate with users and customers generally. For example, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to distribute Mindspark toolbars and search boxes to users through third parties. Most of these agreements are either non-exclusive and short-term in nature or, in the case of long-term or exclusive agreements, are terminable by either party in certain specified circumstances. In addition, a few of these agreements 14 Table of Contents collectively represent a significant percentage of Mindspark's revenue. Our inability to enter into new (or renew existing) agreements to distribute Mindspark toolbars and search boxes through third parties for any reason would result in decreases in traffic, queries and advertising revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the case of the businesses within our Match segment, we have entered into a number of arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our online personals websites. Pursuant to these arrangements, third parties generally promote our services on their websites and we either pay a fixed fee when visitors to these websites click through to or register on our online personals websites or pay a percentage of revenue we receive from such visitors who pay us subscription fees. These arrangements are generally not exclusive, are short-term in nature and are terminable by either party given notice. If existing arrangements with third parties are terminated (or are not renewed upon their expiration) and we fail to replace this traffic and related revenues, or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with existing and/or new third parties in response to industry trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the case of our ServiceMagic business, our ability to drive traffic depends, in part, on the nature and number of service professionals who are members of our network. While these professionals are required to agree that they will operate in accordance with our terms and conditions, we do not enter into long-term agreements with them. In addition, a significant number of our service professionals are sole proprietorships and small businesses, which are particularly sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as constrained liquidity and decreases in consumer spending. As a result, our network of service professionals experiences turnover from time to time. This turnover, if significant or recurring over a prolonged period, could result in a decrease in traffic to ServiceMagic.com and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our properties, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users and customers unless we continue to provide quality products and services. We may not be able to adapt quickly and/or in cost-effective manner to frequent changes in user and customer preferences, which can be difficult to predict, or appropriately time the introduction of enhancements and/or new products or services to the market. Our inability to provide quality products and services would adversely affect user and customer experiences, which would result in decreases in users, customers and revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed below, our traffic building and conversion initiatives also involve the expenditure of considerable sums for marketing, as well as for the development and introduction of new products, services and enhancements, infrastructure and other related efforts. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our various websites may not be successful or cost-effective. Traffic building and conversion initiatives involve considerable expenditures for online and offline advertising and marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenditures for search engine marketing (primarily in the form of the purchase of keywords), online display advertising and traditional offline advertising in connection with these initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. In the case of our search engine marketing efforts, our failure to respond successfully to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines could adversely affect the placement of paid listings that appear in response to keywords we purchase, as well as adversely affect the pricing of online advertising we purchase generally, which would increase our costs. In the case of paid advertising generally, the policies of sellers and publishers of advertising may limit our ability to purchase certain types of advertising or advertise some of our products and services, 15 Table of Contents which could affect our ability to compete effectively and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, users and customers is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well within search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of user searches. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our businesses, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related actions by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results (which actions by search service providers may result in algorithmic listings being displayed less prominently within search engine results), could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, search engines have increasingly expanded their offerings into other, non-search related categories, and have in certain instances displayed their own integrated or related product and service offerings in a more prominent manner than those of third parties within their search engine results. Continued expansion and competition from search engines could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, as discussed above, we also enter into various arrangements with third parties in an effort to increase traffic, which arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue would increase over the long-term. Any failure to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, traffic, users and customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing industry standards. The internet and related technologies, applications and devices are characterized by evolving industry standards, coupled with frequent and related new product and service introductions and enhancements. The development of new product and service introductions and enhancements in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resources and we may not be able to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to these changes or appropriately time the introduction of new products, services and enhancements to the market and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the case of certain of our search services, third parties have introduced (and continue to introduce) new or updated technologies, applications and policies that may interfere with the ability of users to access or utilize these services generally or otherwise make users less likely to use these services (such as through the introduction of features and/or processes that make the access and use of these services cumbersome relative to those of our competitors). For example, third parties continue to introduce technologies and applications (including new and enhanced web browsers) that prevent users from downloading toolbars generally and/or have features and policies that significantly lessen the likelihood that users will download our toolbars and that previously downloaded toolbars will remain in active use. In addition, there are technologies and applications that interfere with the functionality of search boxes embedded within our toolbars and the maintenance of home page and other settings previously selected by users. Third parties have also introduced technologies and applications that are either not compatible with (or otherwise interfere with) the "search assistant" function embedded within our toolbars, pursuant to which our toolbars generate search results for users that receive "DNS," "404" and other errors in response to search queries entered into search boxes embedded 16 Table of Contents within our toolbars or the address bar of their web browsers. These technologies and applications adversely impact our ability to generate search queries through our toolbars, which in turn adversely impacts our revenues. Our failure to successfully modify our toolbars and other search services in a cost-effective manner in response to the introduction and adoption of these new technologies and applications could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the continued widespread adoption of new internet and telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require us to modify or adapt our services or infrastructures and our failure to do so could render our existing websites, services and proprietary technologies obsolete, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, user and usage volumes on mobile devices, including tablets, continue to increase relative to those of personal computers. While we have developed mobile versions of certain of our services, we have limited experience with these applications and they may not be compelling to users. In addition, in the case of certain types of mobile devices, their lower resolution, functionality, display limitations and memory could make the use of our various services through these devices difficult or impossible. Lastly, existing agreements across our business may need to be amended to address the provision of our services on mobile devices, which the counterparties may be unwilling to do. Our estimated income taxes could be materially different from income taxes that we ultimately pay. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous jurisdictions abroad. Significant judgment and estimation is required in determining our provision for income taxes and related matters. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determinations are uncertain or otherwise subject to interpretation. Our determination of our income tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities and we are currently subject to audits in a number of jurisdictions. Although we believe our income tax estimates and related determinations are reasonable and appropriate, relevant taxing authorities may disagree. The ultimate outcome of any such audits and reviews could be materially different from estimates and determinations reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses we acquire may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. To the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and successfully manage acquisition-related strain on the management, operations and financial resources of IAC and its businesses and/or acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in increased operating losses, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the 17 Table of Contents value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events and/or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in various international markets, some in which we have limited experience. As a result, we face additional risks in connection with our international operations. Also, we may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into our existing, international markets. We currently operate in various jurisdictions abroad and may continue to expand our international presence. In order for our products and services in these jurisdictions to achieve widespread acceptance, commercial use and acceptance of the internet must continue to grow, which growth may occur at slower rates than those experienced in the U.S. Moreover, we must continue to successfully tailor our products and services to the unique customs and cultures of these jurisdictions, which can be difficult and costly and the failure to do so could slow our international growth and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Operating abroad, particularly in jurisdictions where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulties in managing international operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with the establishment of management systems and infrastructures (including disclosure