Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" beginning on page 26 and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" beginning on page 52. Unless otherwise indicated, all references to "IAC," the "Company," "we," "our" or "us" in this report are to IAC/InterActiveCorp. History Since its inception, IAC has transformed itself from a hybrid media/electronic retailing company into a leading internet company. IAC was incorporated in July 1986 in Delaware under the name Silver King Broadcasting Company, Inc., as a subsidiary of Home Shopping Network, Inc. In December 1992, Home Shopping Network distributed the capital stock of Silver King to its stockholders. In December 1996, the Company completed mergers with Savoy Pictures Entertainment, Inc. and Home Shopping Network, with Savoy and Home Shopping Network becoming subsidiaries of Silver King. In connection with these mergers, the Company changed its name to HSN, Inc. The Company acquired a controlling interest in Ticketmaster Group, Inc. in 1997 and the remaining interest in 1998. In 1998, upon the purchase of USA Networks and Studios USA from Universal Studios, Inc., the Company was renamed USA Networks, Inc. From 1999 through 2001, the Company acquired Hotel Reservations Network (later renamed Hotels.com), Match.com and other smaller e-commerce companies. In 2001, the Company sold USA Broadcasting to Univision Communications, Inc. In February 2002, the Company acquired a controlling stake in Expedia.com. In May 2002, after contributing its entertainment assets to Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP, or VUE, a joint venture then controlled by Vivendi, the Company changed its name to USA Interactive. In September 2002, the Company acquired Interval International. In 2003, the Company acquired the minority interests in its former public subsidiaries, Expedia.com, Hotels.com and Ticketmaster, and acquired a number of other companies, including Entertainment Publications, Inc. ("EPI"), LendingTree and Hotwire. The Company changed its name to InterActiveCorp in June 2003 and to IAC/InterActiveCorp in July 2004. On August 9, 2005, IAC completed the separation of its travel and travel-related businesses and investments into an independent public company. IAC also completed the following transactions in 2005: the acquisition of IAC Search & Media (formerly known as Ask Jeeves, Inc.), the results of operations of which are now reported within our Search segment (July 2005), a transaction with NBC Universal in which IAC sold its common and preferred interests in VUE (June 2005) and the acquisition of Cornerstone Brands, Inc. ("Cornerstone Brands") (April 2005). 1 Table of Contents In November 2006, IAC sold PRC, LLC, its Teleservices subsidiary. In June 2007, the Company sold its German TV and internet retailer, HSE Germany. In July 2008, the Company acquired the Lexico Publishing Group, owner of reference websites Dictionary.com , Thesaurus.com and Reference.com , and in June 2008, the Company sold EPI. On August 20, 2008, IAC separated into five publicly traded companies: IAC, HSN, Inc. ("HSNi"), Interval Leisure Group, Inc. ("ILG"), Ticketmaster and Tree.com, Inc. ("Tree.com"). In this report, we refer to this transaction as the "Spin-Off." Immediately following the Spin-Off, IAC effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. In January 2009, we sold ReserveAmerica and acquired MarketHardware, Inc., an online provider of marketing solutions for home services businesses. In June 2009, we sold the European operations of Match.com to Meetic, a leading European online dating company based in France, in exchange for a 27% interest in Meetic and a 5 million note. In July 2009, we acquired PeopleMedia, a leading operator of targeted dating sites. In February 2010, we announced the formation of a joint venture between Match.com and Meetic, through which we provide personals services in certain countries in Latin America, as well as acquired Singlesnet.com . In May 2010, we acquired a majority stake in DailyBurn.com , a diet and fitness tracking website. In June 2010, Citysearch changed its name to CityGrid Media in connection with the launch of CityGrid, its local advertising network, and its transformation from an owner and operator of local, consumer-oriented websites into one of the largest local advertising networks on the web. In December 2010, we exchanged the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary that held our Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions businesses and approximately $218 million in cash for substantially all of Liberty Media Corporation's equity stake in IAC. See "Equity Ownership and Vote" and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 11". For additional information concerning certain of these transactions, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNotes 1 and 11". EQUITY OWNERSHIP AND VOTE IAC has outstanding shares of common stock, with one vote per share, and Class B common stock, with ten votes per share and which are convertible into common stock on a share for share basis. As of January 31, 2011, Barry Diller, IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, owned 4,289,499 shares of Class B common stock representing 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 33.8% of the outstanding total voting power of IAC. On December 1, 2010, Mr. Diller acquired 4,289,499 shares of Class B common stock from the Liberty Parties (as defined below) pursuant to a letter agreement among Mr. Diller, IAC, Liberty Media Corporation and Liberty USA Holdings, LLC (the "Liberty Parties"). Pursuant to this letter agreement, the Liberty Parties exchanged with Mr. Diller an aggregate of 4,289,499 shares of Class B common stock held by them for the same number of shares of common stock held by Mr. Diller (the "Diller-Liberty Exchange"). Immediately following the Diller-Liberty Exchange, the Liberty Parties exchanged with IAC their remaining shares of Class B common stock and 4,169,499 shares of common stock for the stock of a wholly-owned subsidiary of IAC that held our Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions businesses and $217.9 million in cash (the "IAC-Liberty Exchange," and together with the Diller-Liberty Exchange, the "Transactions"). For additional information regarding the Transactions, see "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 11". Following the Transactions, the Liberty Parties did not own any shares of Class B common stock and owned approximately 18,000 shares of common stock. As part of the Transactions, in consideration of Mr. Diller waiving certain pre-existing rights under a stockholders agreement with respect to Liberty's transfer to IAC of shares of common stock and Class B common stock, IAC agreed that from time to time until September 1, 2011, Mr. Diller may 2 Table of Contents acquire up to an additional 1.5 million shares of Class B common stock from IAC by exchanging with IAC, on a one-for-one basis, shares of common stock he acquires in the open market or otherwise for shares of Class B common stock held in treasury by IAC. Pursuant to the related agreement between Mr. Diller and IAC, certain transfer restrictions will apply to any shares of Class B common stock received by Mr. Diller pursuant to this exchange right, including a requirement that, until the fifth year anniversary of the Transactions and except for transfers to certain permitted transferees, any shares of Class B common stock acquired pursuant to the exchange right must first be converted into common stock in order to be transferred. In addition, pursuant to an amended and restated governance agreement between IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelve-month period. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller currently is in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IAC's Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. DESCRIPTION OF IAC BUSINESSES Search Overview Our Search segment consists of toolbars that we develop, market and distribute and destination search and other websites, including Ask.com and Dictionary.com , through which we primarily provide search, reference and content services, as well as CityGrid Media, an online media company that aggregates and integrates local advertising and content for distribution to publishers across web and mobile platforms. Search services generally involve the generation and display of a set of hyperlinks to websites, together with summary information regarding these websites, deemed relevant to search queries entered by users. In addition to these algorithmic search results, paid listings are also generally displayed in response to search queries. Paid listings are advertisements displayed on search results pages in response to search queries that contain advertiser-selected keywords. A paid listing is generally a short textual advertising unit containing a link to the website of an advertiser that purchased the relevant keyword(s). The advertiser generally pays a fixed fee every time a user clicks on the paid listing. Substantially all of the revenues from our Search segment are derived from the display of paid listings and other advertising in connection with the provision of search and other services. A substantial majority of the paid listings we display are supplied to us by Google pursuant to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on December 31, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we transmit search queries to Google, which in turn transmits a set of relevant and responsive paid listings back to us for display in search results. This ad-serving process occurs independently of, but concurrently with, the generation of algorithmic search results for the same search queries. Google paid listings are displayed separately from algorithmic search results and are identified as "sponsored" listings on search results pages. To a lesser extent, we also syndicate Google paid listings through third parties with whom we enter into syndication agreements. See "Item 1ARisk FactorsWe depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse changes in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations." In addition, we sell paid listings directly to 3 Table of Contents advertisers for display on third party and various IAC properties, as well as sell display advertising on our destination and other websites. Toolbars Through Mindspark Interactive Network, Inc. ("Mindspark"), we develop, market and distribute a variety of downloadable toolbars through which users can access search services, as well as a variety of applications through which users can creatively and visually express themselves and interact online. The majority of our toolbars consist of a search box (which enables users to run search queries directly from their web browsers), together with applications we have developed that enable users to personalize their online activities and otherwise make them more expressive and fun. These applications include: MyFunCards , through which users can send online greeting cards; Popular Screensavers , through which users can personalize their desktops with photos, images and animations; Webfetti and CursorMania , through which users can personalize pages on various social networking websites; Zwinky , through which users can create avatars to express their persona on the web and design and update profile pages to share with friends; IWON , through which users can access their favorite online games from IWON.com and elsewhere directly from their web browsers; Smiley Central , through which users can add emoticons to e-mails and instant messages; MyWebFace , through which users can create cartoon-like images of themselves for download or use in connection with their profile pages on social networks; and Retrogamer , through which users can access their favorite classic arcade, sports and action games directly from their web browsers. Zwinky also provides users with access to Zwinktopia , a virtual world where avatars created by users can interact through chat and other features, as well as purchase virtual items with virtual currency online. We also develop, market and distribute toolbars that target users with a passionate interest in select vertical categories (such as movies, television, sports and gossip). In addition to a search box feature, these toolbars provide users with the ability to access primarily third party online content and services relating to various vertical categories directly from their web browsers. We distribute these toolbars, as well as those with applications we have developed, to consumers free of charge. We also market and distribute Ask.com branded and custom toolbars to third parties through the Ask Partner Network, a leading provider of custom applications and search solutions to software and media companies with web browser add-ons. Ask Partner Network works closely with third parties to design and develop highly-targeted, custom toolbars that, when bundled with third party applications and websites, extend services into web browsers and enhance end-user experiences online. We sometimes refer to the toolbars within our Search segment as "proprietary" and "distributed." "Proprietary" toolbars are generally those that we market and distribute directly to users and "distributed" toolbars are generally those that are marketed and distributed to users through third parties. Destination Search and Other Websites We also operate a number of destination websites and portals through which we provide search and additional services, including: Ask.com, which provides general search services, as well as question and answer services that provide direct answers to natural-language questions; Dictionary.com , which provides online dictionary search, educational and learning services; IWON.com , which offers a variety of casual games and sweepstakes ; Girlsense.com , which provides a virtual fashion community for girls and teens; MyWay.com , which is free from banner, pop-up and rich-media ads and through which we provide general search and e-mail services; and Excite.com , a content-rich portal that aggregates news, sports, weather and entertainment content. 4 Table of Contents Mobile Applications We market and distribute a number of mobile applications through which we provide search and additional services, including: the Dictionary.com iPhone and Android applications, which provide dictionary search, educational and learning services; the Ask.com iPhone application, which provides general search and natural-language question and answer services; and various DailyBurn iPhone applications, which track nutritional and fitness information and activities. Revenues Substantially all of the revenues from our toolbars, destination search and other websites and related services are derived from advertising, with the substantial majority of these revenues attributable to our paid listing supply agreement with Google. When a user submits a search query through properties and services within our Search segment and clicks on a Google paid listing displayed in response to the query, Google bills the advertiser that purchased the paid listing directly and makes a related revenue share payment to us, which we either retain in its entirety or share with third parties. In some cases, Google does not charge advertisers unless our user, after clicking on the paid listing, also takes certain actions on the advertiser's website. To a lesser extent, we also generate revenues from the direct sale of paid listings directly to advertisers on a cost-per-click basis, as well as from the sale of display and other advertising pursuant to a variety of advertising models, including on a fixed fee per impression, cost-per-click and cost-per-action basis. Competition We compete with a wide variety of parties in connection with our efforts to: (i) attract users to our various search properties and search services generally; (ii) develop, market and distribute toolbars and related applications; (iii) attract third parties to distribute our toolbars and search boxes; and (iv) attract advertisers. Our competitors include Google, Yahoo!, Bing and other destination search websites and search-centric portals (some of which provide a broad range of content and services and/or link to various desktop applications), third party toolbar, convenience search and applications providers, other search technology and convenience service providers, including internet access providers, social networks, online advertising networks, traditional media companies and companies that provide online content. Moreover, some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer bases and/or significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As a result, they have the ability to devote comparatively greater resources to the development and promotion of their products and services, which could result in greater market acceptance of their products and services relative to those offered by us. In the case of our Mindspark business, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon our continued ability to create toolbars that resonate with consumers (which requires that we continue to bundle attractive features, content and services, some of which may be owned by third parties, with quality search services), differentiate our toolbars from those of our competitors (primarily through providing customized toolbars and access to multiple search and other services through our toolbars), market and distribute toolbars directly to consumers in a cost-effective manner and secure cost-effective toolbar distribution arrangements with third parties and through other means, as well as attract advertisers. In the case of our destination search websites, we believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the relevance and authority of our search results and other content, the functionality of our various destination search websites and the quality of related content and features and the attractiveness of our services generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors. In the case of the relevance and authority of our search results, our current goal is to differentiate 5 Table of Contents Ask.com from its competitors through question and answer services that provide accurate, authoritative and direct answers to natural-language questions (in the form of algorithmic search results and/or responses from other Ask.com users). The success of this initiative depends primarily upon our ability to develop a community of Ask.com users with the expertise necessary to provide accurate and authoritative answers to questions, as well as our ability to attract advertisers to this initiative. In the case of the functionality of our various destination search websites and the quality of related content and features, we seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors by offering users unique search-related features, such as Ask Eraser , which when activated by users who enter search queries on Ask.com , deletes from our servers search queries and related "cookie" and other information used to track internet activity. CityGrid Media Overview. CityGrid Media is a media company that operates CityGrid, a leading local content and advertising network through which local business listings, advertising and content are distributed to publishers across web and mobile platforms, as well as consumer-oriented websites Citysearch.com, InsiderPages.com and Urbanspoon.com CityGrid. Through CityGrid, we aggregate local business listings, advertising and content, including editorial and other user-generated content and related information ("CityGrid Advertising"), which we then distribute to websites and mobile applications affiliated with CityGrid. Websites and mobile applications affiliated with CityGrid include third party websites and mobile applications, as well as the websites and applications we own and operate described below (the "CityGrid Properties"). Owned and Operated Properties. CityGrid Media also owns and operates Citysearch.com , InsiderPages.com and Urbanspoon.com , websites (and related mobile applications in the case of Citysearch.com and Urbanspoon.com ) that connect consumers with local businesses by providing consumers with free access to local business profiles, customized messages from local businesses, reviews and user-generated content and related information. Citysearch.com is a comprehensive directory of local business listings and related information across all verticals of businesses in the United States. InsiderPages.com publishes content regarding professional service providers based in the United States. Urbanspoon.com publishes content focused exclusively on restaurants and dining in North America, the United Kingdom and Australia. Advertising Services. CityGrid Advertising is sold to local businesses through direct sales and resellers. In the case of direct sales, we sell CityGrid Advertising directly to local businesses through field sales teams in major metropolitan areas within the United States, as well as through an in-house national sales team and an online self-enrollment model. CityGrid Advertising is also sold through resellers (third parties with their own independent advertising sales forces). CityGrid Advertising is then published on CityGrid Properties. Revenues. The substantial majority of CityGrid Media revenues are generated through the sale of CityGrid Advertising to local businesses through direct sales and resellers. In the case of direct sales, advertising is sold primarily pursuant to a pay-for-performance-based model. Under this model, local businesses pay CityGrid Media a fee each time their enhanced business listing (or select information from such listing) is viewed on a CityGrid Property or a user calls a metered number to reach a business. In the case of resellers, advertisers pay resellers for CityGrid Advertising, which resellers in turn share the revenues received with CityGrid Media pursuant to a variety of models, the specifics of which vary by reseller and the substantial majority of which have some performance-based element. When we publish CityGrid Advertising on our owned and operated properties, we retain all of the revenues (whether generated from direct sales or resellers). When CityGrid Advertising is published and viewed by an end user on a third party CityGrid Property, we share the related revenues we 6 Table of Contents receive with the applicable third party CityGrid Property. Revenues are also generated through our sale of local merchant and national display advertising on our owned and operated properties on a per impression and fixed fee basis. Competition. The markets for local business advertising and content are highly competitive and diverse. We primarily compete with online and offline local and national directories and new online and mobile advertising services and networks. We also face competition from search engines and other site aggregation companies that aggregate our content for display on their websites, which interferes with search engine optimization and marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to CityGrid Properties. Match Overview Through the brands and businesses within our Match segment, we are a leading provider of subscription-based and advertiser-supported online personals services in the United States and various jurisdictions abroad. We provide these services through websites that we own and operate in twenty-five countries, in seven languages and on four continents, as well as through our mobile applications. Through Match.com , we also own a 27% interest in Meetic, a European online dating company based in France, and a 50% interest in a venture with Meetic, through which we provide online personals services in certain countries in Latin America. As of December 31, 2010, we collectively provided online personals services to approximately 1.6 million subscribers. In April 2010, we entered into an agreement with Yahoo!, pursuant to which Match.com became the exclusive online dating website on Yahoo.com . In February 2010 and February 2011, respectively, we acquired Singlesnet.com and OKCupid.com , two advertiser-supported online personals services in the United States. Services We primarily provide online personals services through branded websites that we own and operate, including Match.com , Chemistry.com , SeniorPeopleMeet.com , BlackPeopleMeet.com , Singlesnet.com and OKCupid.com . These websites, all of which provide single adults with a private and convenient environment for meeting other single adults, primarily provide online personals services to registered members (those establishing usernames and passwords) and subscribers (those who establish a username and password and pay a subscription fee). Within our portfolio of websites, we have both subscription-based and advertising-supported offerings. Our subscription-based websites offer registered members the ability to post a profile and use any related searching and matching tools free of charge, while subscribers have access to enhanced tools and a broader feature set, including the ability to initiate, review or respond to communications from other users. Our subscription programs generally start with a single-month term, with discounts for longer term subscriptions. Our advertiser-supported websites generally provide online personals services with basic functionality without the commitment of a monthly subscription, in some cases making a variety of premium or add-on features available for a fee. We also offer access to our services via mobile phones and other mobile devices through our matchMobile service and other branded mobile applications. Marketing We market our services through a wide variety of offline and online marketing activities. Our offline marketing activities consist of traditional marketing and business development activities, including television, print, radio and outdoor advertising and related public relations efforts. Our online marketing activities consist primarily of the purchase of banner and other display advertising, targeted 7 Table of Contents e-mail campaigns and search engine marketing. In addition, we enter into a variety of alliances with third parties who advertise and promote our services. Some alliances are exclusive and some, but not all, contain renewal provisions. Revenues Our revenues are derived from subscription fees for our subscription-based online personals and related services and online advertising. Competition The personals business is very competitive and highly fragmented in the United States and abroad and barriers to entry are minimal. We compete primarily with online and offline broad-based personals, dating and matchmaking services (both free and paid), social networking websites, the personals sections of newspapers and magazines, other conventional media companies that provide personals services and traditional venues where singles meet (both online and offline). We also compete with numerous online and offline personals, dating and matchmaking services that cater to specific demographic groups. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size and diversity of our registered member and subscriber bases relative to those of our competitors; the functionality of our websites and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers relative to those of our competitors; how quickly we can enhance our existing technology and services and/or develop new features and services in response to: new, emerging and rapidly changing technologies; the introduction of product and service offerings by our competitors; evolving industry standards; and changes in consumer requirements and trends in the single community relative to our competitors; and our ability to engage in cost-effective marketing efforts, including by way of maintaining relationships with third parties with which we have entered into alliances, and the recognition and strength of our various brands relative to those of our competitors. ServiceMagic Overview ServiceMagic is a leading online marketplace in the United States that connects consumers, by way of patented proprietary technologies, with home and other local service professionals, all of which are pre-screened and the majority of which are customer-rated. When consumers submit a service request through the ServiceMagic marketplace, ServiceMagic generally matches them with up to four members from its network of service professionals, which as of December 31, 2010, consisted of more than 82,000 service professionals in the United States providing services in more than 700 categories, primarily home service-related, ranging from simple home repairs to complete home building and home remodeling projects, as well as other local services, including photography and event planning. 8 Table of Contents Through ServiceMagic International, we search for local lead generation business opportunities around the world and made a majority investment in ServiceMagic Europe, which operates businesses in the local lead generation space in France and the United Kingdom, including Travaux.com , a leading French website for consumer information regarding home improvement; 123Devis.com , a French lead generation business with one of the largest networks of tradespeople in France; and 123GetAQuote.co.uk , a leading lead generation platform for home service and trade professionals in the United Kingdom. Services Through our Market Match service, we generally match consumers with up to four service professionals from our network based upon service requests that specify the type of services desired and the consumer's zip code. Through our Exact Match service, consumers can review service professional profiles and select the service professional that they believe best meets their specific needs. Through Exact Match , we also optimize the placement of service professional profiles in a wide range of marketing vehicles, including the results of local and other search engines and online directories. Our Exact Match service provides a way for service professionals to get broad exposure for their businesses online without having to pay significant up-front fees, build and maintain their own destination websites and develop online marketing expertise. Consumers can also be matched to a service professional by way of 1800Contractor.com , an online directory of our network of service professionals that we own and operate. Consumers that visit this site are ultimately matched to a service professional by way of our Exact Match service or, if a match cannot be made through this service, by way of our Market Match service. We also offer website design and hosting services for our service professionals through our wholly-owned subsidiary, Market Hardware. In all cases, if a match is made through our services, consumers are under no obligation to work with service professionals referred by ServiceMagic. In addition, if we are unable to match a consumer with service professionals from our network, we may provide the consumer with contact information concerning service professionals outside of our network. In addition to our matching services, consumers may also access our online library of service-related resources, which primarily include articles about home improvement, repair and maintenance, and related tools to assist consumers with the research, planning and management of their projects, and general advice for working with service professionals. Marketing We market our services to consumers primarily through search engine marketing, as well as through affiliate agreements with third parties. Pursuant to these agreements, third parties agree to advertise and promote our services and the services of our member service professionals on their websites and we agree to pay them a fixed fee when visitors from their websites submit a valid service request through our website (on a cost-per-acquisition basis) or click through to our website (on a cost-per-click basis). We also market our services to consumers through the purchase of paid listings displayed in yellow page directories, portals and contextual home improvement related sites and, to a lesser extent, through traditional offline advertising. We market our services to service professionals through our sales force, which obtains information concerning service professionals through a variety of sources. We also promote online enrollment in our network through search engine marketing, relationships with trade associations and affiliate marketing relationships. Revenues Our revenues are generated from fees paid by members of our network of service professionals for consumer leads, regardless of whether the service professional that received the lead ultimately 9 Table of Contents provides the requested service, as well as from one-time fees charged upon enrollment and activation of new service professionals in our network. Lead fees vary based upon the service requested, with fees for leads generated through our Exact Match service being greater than those for leads generated through our Market Match service. Our revenues are also generated, to a lesser extent, from fees paid by service professionals for website development and hosting services provided by MarketHardware. Competition We currently compete with other service-related lead generation services, primarily home service-related services, as well as with internet directories and local advertising, including radio, direct marketing campaigns, yellow pages, newspapers and other offline directories. We also compete with local and national retailers of home improvement products that offer or promote installation services. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend primarily upon the following factors: the size, quality (as determined, in part, by reference to our pre-screening efforts and customer ratings and reviews), diversity and stability of our network of service professionals and the quality of services provided by these professionals; our continued ability to deliver consumer leads that convert into revenues for our network of service professionals in a cost-effective manner; and the functionality of our websites and the attractiveness of their features and our services generally to consumers and service professionals, as well as our ability to introduce new products and services that resonate with consumers and service professionals. Media & Other Businesses Our Media & Other segment currently consists primarily of Electus, Connected Ventures, Vimeo, Pronto, Shoebuy and Proust.com . Electus is a multimedia company that seeks to enable media content creators to engage with advertising and technology partners at the inception of the creative process and partner on the finished product across a global and multi-platform distribution model. Connected Ventures is a new media network and development company that operates: CollegeHumor Media, a leading online entertainment company targeting a core audience of young males ages eighteen to twenty-four through CollegeHumor.com and other websites; Notional, a production company specializing in the creation of video content for all distribution platforms; and BustedTees.com , an online t-shirt retailer targeting the CollegeHumor Media demographic. Vimeo is a website on which users can upload, share and view video. Pronto owns and operates Pronto.com , a leading comparison search engine, through which consumers can search and compare prices for a wide range of merchandise offered by online retailers. Shoebuy, a leading internet retailer of footwear and related apparel and accessories, generally passes purchases made by customers through its various websites on to the relevant vendors for fulfillment and shipping. On Proust.com , users ask and answer questions about the different chapters of their lives, which information is then available online to share with family and friends. Through January 2011, we owned and operated The Daily Beast, which was merged with print magazine Newsweek to form a joint venture on February 1, 2011. The Daily Beast is a website dedicated to news and commentary, culture and entertainment that curates and provides existing online content and new works from its own roster of contributors to users free of charge. In the case of our Media & Other segment, revenues are generated primarily from merchandise sales, online advertising and content production. 10 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2010, IAC and its subsidiaries employed approximately 3,200 full-time employees. IAC believes that it generally has good employee relationships, including relationships with employees represented by unions or other similar organizations. Additional Information Company Website and Public Filings. The Company maintains a website at www.iac.com . Neither the information on the Company's website, nor the information on the website of any IAC business, is incorporated by reference in this report, or in any other filings with, or in any other information furnished or submitted to, the SEC. The Company makes available, free of charge through its website, its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K (including related amendments) as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Code of Ethics. The Company's code of ethics, as amended in April 2009, applies to all employees (including all executive officers and senior financial officers (including IAC's CFO and Controller)) and directors and is posted on the Company's website at www.iac.com/newiaccodeofethics.pdf . The code of ethics complies with Item 406 of SEC Regulation S-K and the rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Any changes to the code of ethics that affect the provisions required by Item 406 of Regulation S-K, and any waivers of such provisions of the code of ethics for IAC's executive officers, senior financial officers or directors, will also be disclosed on IAC's website. Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "projects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward looking statements. These forward looking statements include, among others, statements relating to: IAC's anticipated financial performance, IAC's business prospects and strategy, anticipated trends and prospects in the various industries in which IAC businesses operate, new products, services and related strategies and other similar matters. These forward looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions about future events, which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others, the risk factors set forth below. Other unknown or unpredictable factors that could also adversely affect IAC's business, financial condition and results of operations may arise from time to time. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward looking statements discussed in this report may not prove to be accurate. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which only reflect the views of IAC management as of the date of this report. IAC does not undertake to update these forward looking statements. 11 Table of Contents Risk Factors Mr. Diller owns a significant percentage of the voting power of our stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over the composition of our Board or Directors, matters subject to stockholder approval and our operations. As of January 31, 2011, Mr. Diller owned approximately 4.3 million shares of IAC Class B common stock representing 100% of IAC's outstanding Class B common stock and approximately 33.8% of the total outstanding voting power of IAC. Mr. Diller may acquire additional shares of IAC Class B common stock through the exercise of an exchange right, pursuant to which he may exchange with IAC, on a one-for-one basis, from time to time until September 1, 2011, up to 1.5 million shares of IAC common stock he acquires in the open market or otherwise for shares of IAC Class B common stock currently held in treasury by IAC. In addition, under an amended and restated governance agreement among IAC and Mr. Diller, for so long as Mr. Diller serves as IAC's Chairman and Senior Executive, he generally has the right to consent to limited matters in the event that IAC's ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the governance agreement) equals or exceeds four to one over a continuous twelve-month period. While Mr. Diller may not currently exercise this right, no assurances can be given that this right will not become exercisable in the future, and if so, that Mr. Diller will consent to any of the limited matters at such time, in which case IAC would not be able to engage in transactions or take actions covered by this consent right. As a result of Mr. Diller's ownership interest, voting power and the contractual rights described above, Mr. Diller currently is in a position to influence, subject to our organizational documents and Delaware law, the composition of IAC's Board of Directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers, business combinations and dispositions of assets, among other corporate transactions. In addition, this concentration of voting power could discourage others from initiating a potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to IAC, which could adversely affect the market price of IAC securities. We depend on our key personnel. Our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled individuals, with the continued contributions of our senior management being especially critical to our success. Competition for well-qualified employees across IAC and its various businesses is intense and our continued ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon our ability to attract new employees. While we have established programs to attract new employees and provide incentives to retain existing employees, particularly our senior management, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new employees or retain the services of our senior management or any other key employees in the future. We depend upon arrangements with Google and any adverse changes in this relationship could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to a paid listing supply agreement with Google that expires on December 31, 2012. Pursuant to this agreement, we display and syndicate paid listings provided by Google in response to search queries generated by users of our search services that contain keywords selected and purchased by advertisers through Google. In exchange for making our search traffic available to Google, we receive a share of the revenue generated by the paid listings supplied to us, as well as certain other search-related services. The amount of revenue we receive from Google depends upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the amount Google charges for advertisements and the efficiency of Google's system 12 Table of Contents in attracting advertisers and serving up paid listings in response to search queries. In addition, Google makes judgments about the relative attractiveness (to the advertiser) of clicks on paid listings from searches performed on our search services and these judgments factor into the amount of revenue we receive. Changes to Google's paid listings network efficiency or its judgment about the relative attractiveness of clicks on paid listings from our search services could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Such changes could come about for a number of reasons, including general market conditions, competition or policy and operating decisions made by Google. Our paid listing supply agreement requires that we comply with certain guidelines promulgated by Google for the use of its services and that we establish guidelines to govern certain activities of third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings, specifically, the manner in which these parties drive search traffic to their websites and display Google paid listings within search results. Subject to certain limitations, Google may unilaterally update its policies and guidelines, which could in turn require modifications to (or prohibit certain of) our products, services and/or business practices, which could be costly or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Noncompliance with Google's guidelines by us or third parties to whom we syndicate paid listings could, if not cured, result in Google's suspension of some or all services to our websites or the websites of our third party partners, the imposition of additional restrictions on our ability to syndicate paid listings or the termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google. The termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to obtain a renewal of our agreement with Google with substantially comparable economic and other terms upon the expiration of our current agreement could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these events were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if an alternate were found, the economic and other terms of the agreement and the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenues. General economic events or trends that reduce advertising spending could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. A substantial portion of our consolidated revenue is attributable to advertising. Accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to events and trends that result in decreased advertising expenditures. Advertising expenditures have historically been cyclical in nature, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns, as well as levels of consumer confidence and discretionary spending. Small and local businesses with which we do business are particularly sensitive to these events and trends, given that they are not as well situated to weather adverse economic conditions as their larger competitors, which are generally better capitalized and have greater access to credit. In the recent past, adverse economic conditions have caused, and if such conditions were to recur in the future they could cause, decreases and/or delays in advertising expenditures, which would reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising, particularly paid listings, as an effective alternative to traditional, offline advertising and the continued commercial use of the internet. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete with traditional media, including television, radio and print, in addition to a 13 Table of Contents multitude of websites with high levels of traffic and online advertising networks, for a share of available advertising expenditures and expect to face continued competition as more emerging media and traditional offline media companies enter the online advertising market. We believe that the continued growth and continued acceptance of online advertising generally will depend, to a large extent, on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models (particularly in the case of models that incorporate user targeting), the continued growth in commercial use of the internet (particularly abroad), the extent to which software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being displayed become commonplace and the extent to which the industry is able to effectively manage click fraud. Any lack of growth in the market for online advertising, particularly for paid listings, or any decrease in the effectiveness and value of online advertising (whether due to the passage of laws requiring additional disclosure and/or opt-in policies for advertising that incorporates user targeting or other developments) would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend, in part, upon arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into users and customers. We engage in a variety of activities designed to attract traffic to our various websites and convert visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to enter into arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our various websites, as well as the continued introduction of new and enhanced products and services that resonate with users and customers generally. For example, we have entered into, and expect to continue to enter into, agreements to distribute our toolbars and search boxes to users through third parties. These agreements are generally not exclusive, are short term in nature and are terminable by either party upon notice. Our inability to enter into new (or renew existing) agreements to distribute our toolbars and search boxes through third parties for any reason would result in decreases in traffic, queries and advertising revenues, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in the case of the businesses within our Match segment, we have entered into a number of arrangements with third parties to drive traffic to our online personals websites. Pursuant to these arrangements, third parties generally promote our services on their websites and we either pay a fixed fee when visitors to these websites click through to or register on our online personals websites or pay a percentage of revenue we receive from such visitors who pay us subscription fees. These arrangements are generally not exclusive, are short term in nature and are terminable by either party given notice. If existing arrangements with third parties are terminated (or are not renewed upon their expiration) and we fail to replace this traffic and related revenues, or if we are unable to enter into new arrangements with third parties in response to industry trends, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In the case of our ServiceMagic business, our ability to drive traffic depends, in part, on the nature and number of service professionals who are members of our service provider network. While these professionals are required to agree that they will operate in accordance with our terms and conditions, we do not enter into long term contracts with them. In addition, a significant number of our service professionals are sole proprietorships and small businesses, which are particularly sensitive to adverse economic conditions, such as constrained liquidity and decreases in consumer spending. As a result, our network of service professionals may experience turnover from time to time, which if significant or recurring over a prolonged period, could result in a decrease in traffic to ServiceMagic.com and increased costs, all of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our properties, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users and customers unless we continue to provide quality products and services. We may not be able to adapt quickly and/or in cost-effective manner to frequent changes in user and customer preferences, which can be difficult to predict, or appropriately time the introduction of enhancements and/or new products or services to the market. Our inability to provide quality products and services would adversely affect user and customer experiences, which would result in decreases in users, customers and revenues, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As discussed below, our traffic building and conversion initiatives also involve the expenditure of considerable sums for marketing, as well as for the development and introduction of new products, services and enhancements, infrastructure and other related efforts. Marketing efforts designed to drive traffic to our various websites may not be successful or cost-effective. Traffic building and conversion initiatives involve considerable expenditures for online and offline advertising and marketing. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenditures for search engine marketing (primarily in the form of the purchase of keywords), online display advertising and traditional offline advertising in connection with these initiatives, which may not be successful or cost-effective. In the case of our search engine marketing efforts, our failure to respond successfully to rapid and frequent changes in the pricing and operating dynamics of search engines could adversely affect the placement of paid listings that appear in response to keywords we purchase, as well as adversely affect the pricing of online advertising we purchase generally, which would increase our costs. In the case of paid advertising generally, the policies of sellers and publishers of advertising may limit our ability to purchase certain types of advertising or advertise some of our products and services, which could affect our ability to compete effectively and, in turn, adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, users and customers is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well within search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of user searches. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our businesses, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related actions by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results (which actions by search service providers may result in algorithmic listings being displayed less prominently within search engine results), could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, which would result in substantial decreases in conversion rates and repeat business, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, any or all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, search engines have increasingly expanded their offerings into other, non-search related categories, and have in certain instances displayed their own integrated or related product and service offerings in a more prominent manner than those of third parties within their search engine results. Continued expansion and competition from search engines could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, which would result in substantial decreases in conversion rates and repeat business, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, any or all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Lastly, as discussed above, we also enter into various arrangements with third parties in an effort to increase traffic, which arrangements are generally more cost-effective than traditional marketing efforts. If we are unable to renew existing (and enter into new) arrangements of this nature, sales and marketing costs as a percentage of revenue would increase over the long-term. 15 Table of Contents Any failure to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, traffic, users and customers in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing industry standards. The e-commerce industry is characterized by evolving industry standards, coupled with frequent and related new product and service introductions and enhancements. The development of new product and service introductions and enhancements in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resources and we may not be able to adapt quickly enough (and/or in a cost-effective manner) to these changes or appropriately time the introduction of new products, services and enhancements to the market and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The continued widespread adoption of new internet and telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require us to modify or adapt our services or infrastructures and our failure to do so could render our existing websites, services and proprietary technologies obsolete, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, user and usage volumes on mobile devices continue to increase relative to those of personal computers. The lower resolution, functionality, display limitations and memory associated with mobile devices could make the use of our various services through these devices difficult. While we have developed mobile versions of certain of our services, we have limited experience with these applications and they may not be compelling to users. Furthermore, existing agreements across our business may need to be amended to cover the provision of our services on mobile devices, which the counterparties may be unwilling to do. Furthermore, in the case of certain of our search services, third parties have introduced (and continue to introduce) new technologies. applications and policies that may interfere with the ability of our users to access or utilize some of our services generally or otherwise make users less likely to use our services (such as through the introduction and features and/or processes that make the access and use of our services cumbersome relative to those of our competitors). For example, third parties have introduced technologies and applications that prevent users from downloading toolbars generally and/or have features and policies that significantly lessen the likelihood that users will download our toolbars and that previously downloaded toolbars will remain in active use, such as features that interfere with the functionality of search boxes embedded within our toolbars and the maintenance of home page and other settings previously selected by users. Third parties have also introduced technologies and applications that are either not compatible with (or otherwise interfere with) the "search assistant" function embedded within our toolbars, pursuant to which our toolbars generate search results for users that receive "DNS," "404" and other errors in response to search queries entered into search boxes embedded within our toolbars or the address bar of their web browsers. These technologies and applications adversely impact our ability to generate search queries through our toolbars, which in turn adversely impacts our revenues. Our failure to successfully modify our toolbars in a cost-effective manner in response to the introduction and adoption of these new technologies and applications could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our estimated income taxes could be materially different from income taxes that we ultimately pay. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous jurisdictions abroad. Significant judgment and estimation is required in determining our provision for income taxes and related matters. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determinations are uncertain or otherwise subject to interpretation. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to review by applicable tax authorities and we are currently subject to audits in a number of jurisdictions. Although we believe our tax estimates and related determinations are reasonable and appropriate, relevant taxing authorities may disagree. The ultimate outcome of any such audits and reviews could be materially different from estimates and determinations reflected in our historical income 16 Table of Contents tax provisions and accruals. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. In addition, some of the businesses we acquire may incur significant losses from operations or experience impairment of carrying value. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. To the extent that we continue to grow through acquisitions, we will need to: successfully integrate the operations, as well as the accounting, financial controls, management information, technology, human resources and other administrative systems, of acquired businesses with our existing operations and systems; retain or hire senior management and other key personnel at acquired businesses; and successfully manage acquisition-related strain on the management, operations and financial resources of IAC and/or acquired businesses. We may not be successful in addressing these challenges or any other problems encountered in connection with historical and future acquisitions. In addition, the anticipated benefits of one or more acquisitions may not be realized and future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities and the assumption of contingent liabilities. Also, the value of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired could be impacted by one or more continuing unfavorable events and/or trends, which could result in significant impairment charges. The occurrence of any these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in certain international markets in which we have limited experience, and as a result, face additional risks. We may not be able to successfully expand into new, or further into existing, international markets. We currently operate in a limited number of jurisdictions abroad and may continue to expand our international presence. In order for our products and services in these jurisdictions to achieve widespread acceptance, commercial use and acceptance of the internet must continue to grow, which growth may occur at slower rates than those experienced in the U.S. Moreover, we must continue to successfully tailor our services to the unique customs and cultures of these jurisdictions, which can be difficult and costly and the failure to do so could slow our international growth. Operating abroad, where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks. For example, we may experience difficulties in managing operations due to distance, language and cultural differences, including issues associated with the establishment of management systems and infrastructures, the staffing of foreign operations, exchange rate fluctuations and online privacy and protection of personal information. Our success in international markets will also depend, in part, on our ability to identify potential acquisition candidates, joint venture or other partners, and to enter into arrangements with these parties on favorable terms, given that we could encounter significant barriers to entry in connection with expansion efforts outside of these arrangements. A variety of new laws, or new interpretations of existing laws, could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that are costly to comply with, can result in negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort and can subject us to claims or other remedies. Some of these laws, such as income, sales, use, value-added and other tax laws and consumer protection laws, are applicable to businesses generally and others are unique to the type of businesses in which we are engaged. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the 17 Table of Contents internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the internet and related technologies. Laws that do reference the internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are currently unsettled both within the U.S. and abroad. Claims could be threatened and filed under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the ads posted by our products and services, or content generated by us and our users. In addition, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act has provisions that limit, but do not necessarily eliminate, our liability for listing or linking to third party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights, so long as we comply with the statutory requirements of this act. Those of our businesses that mention or otherwise incorporate copyrighted material into the content they produce also rely on fair use principles, which allow limited use of copyrighted materials without having to obtain the consent of the copyright holder, provided we satisfy certain legal criteria. Also, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act restrict the distribution of materials considered harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect information from minors. In the area of data protection, many states have passed laws requiring notification to users when there is a security breach for personal data, such as California's Information Practices Act. We face similar risks and costs as our products, services and content are offered in international markets and may be subject to additional regulations. Any failure on our part to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the laws to which we are currently subject are amended or interpreted adversely to our interests, or if new adverse laws are adopted, our products and services might need to be modified to comply with such laws, which would increase our costs and could result in decreased demand for our products and services to the extent that we pass on such costs to consumers. Specifically, in the case of tax laws, positions that we have taken or will take are subject to interpretation by the relevant taxing authorities and while we believe that the positions we have taken to date comply with applicable law, there can be no assurances that the relevant taxing authorities will not take a contrary position, and if so, that such positions will not adversely affect us. Any events of this nature could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. We receive, transmit and store a large volume of personally identifiable information and other user data in connection with the processing of search queries, the provision of online services, transactions with users and customers and advertising on our websites. The sharing, use, disclosure and protection of this information are governed by the respective privacy and data security policies maintained by our various businesses. Moreover, there are federal, state and international laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personally identifiable information and user data. Specifically, personally identifiable information is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, the intent of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. There are currently pending several bills in the U.S. Congress, which if passed could result in more onerous requirements regarding the manner in which certain personally identifiable information and other user data will need to be stored and managed. Additionally, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission released a staff report in December 2010 in which it proposed a new framework for addressing commercial use of consumer data. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in the practices and/or privacy policies of our various businesses, which 18 Table of Contents could be costly to implement, or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that otherwise negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As privacy and data protection have become more sensitive issues, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data collected by our businesses. Also, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. The failure of any of our businesses, or their various third party vendors and service providers, to comply with applicable privacy policies or federal, state or similar international laws and regulations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personally identifiable information or other user data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or may be accused of infringing intellectual property rights of third parties. We regard our intellectual property rights, including trademarks, domain names, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and other similar intellectual property, as critical to our success. For example, the businesses within our principal reporting segments, our Search, Match and ServiceMagic reporting segments, rely heavily upon their trademarks (primarily Ask.com , our various toolbar brands, Match.com and ServiceMagic.com and related domain names and logos), through which they market their products and services and seek to build and maintain brand loyalty and recognition. So long as these businesses continue to use these trademarks to identify their products and services and renew related trademarks upon their expiration, they will continue to have related trademark protections indefinitely under current trademark laws, rules and regulations. The businesses within our Search segment also rely heavily upon trade secrets, primarily search algorithms through which organic search results are generated. To a lesser extent, these businesses also rely upon patented and patent-pending proprietary technologies and processes, primarily those relating to search-related products and services, with expiration dates for patented technologies ranging from 2017 to 2027, and copyrighted material, primarily emoticons, characters and other content that is incorporated into, and used in connection with the marketing of, toolbars generally. Our Match segment also relies upon patent-pending proprietary technologies relating to matching process systems and related features, products and services. Our ServiceMagic segment also relies heavily upon trade secrets, primarily the matching algorithm through which members of its network of local service professionals are matched with consumers, as well as related patented proprietary technologies that expire in 2020. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect our various intellectual property rights. For example, we have generally registered and continue to apply to register and renew, or secure by contract where appropriate, trademarks and service marks as they are developed and used, and reserve, register and renew domain names as we deem appropriate. Effective trademark protection may not be available or may not be sought in every country in which products and services are made available and contractual disputes may affect the use of marks governed by private contract. Similarly, not every variation of a domain name may be available or be registered, even if available. We also generally seek to apply for patents or for other similar statutory protections as and if we deem appropriate, based on then current facts and circumstances, and will continue to do so in the future. No assurances can be given that any patent application we have filed will result in a patent being issued, or that any existing or future patents will afford adequate protection against competitors and similar technologies. In addition, no assurances can be given that third parties will not create new products or methods that achieve similar results without infringing upon patents we own. 19 Table of Contents Despite these precautions, our intellectual property rights may still not be protected in a meaningful manner, challenges to contractual rights could arise or third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The occurrence of any of these events could result in the erosion of our brand names and limitations on our ability to control marketing on or through the internet using our various domain names, as well as impede our ability to effectively compete against competitors with similar technologies, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial conditions and results of operations. From time to time, we have been subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights held by third parties. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights claimed by others. Any litigation of this nature, regardless of outcome or merit, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Patent litigation tends to be particularly protracted and expensive. Our success depends, in part, on the integrity of our systems and infrastructure and those of third parties. System interruption and the lack of integration and redundancy in our and third party information systems may affect our businesses. To succeed, our systems and infrastructure must perform well on a consistent basis. From time to time, we may experience occasional system interruptions that make some or all of our systems or data unavailable or that prevent us from providing services, which could adversely affect our business. Moreover, as traffic to our various websites increases and the number of new (and presumably more complex) products and services that we introduce continues to grow, we will need to upgrade our systems, infrastructure and technologies generally to facilitate this growth. If we do not do so or if we experience inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with these efforts, users, customers and third parties with whom we do business may not be able to access our services on an intermittent or prolonged basis and the quality of their experiences could be adversely affected. Moreover, even if we do not encounter any inefficiencies and/or operational failures in connection with these efforts, third parties with whom we do business may not make the changes to their systems, infrastructure and technology needed in order to access our services on a timely basis, if at all. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on third party computer systems, data centers, broadband and other communications systems and service providers in connection with the provision of services generally, as well as to facilitate and process certain transactions with customers. Any interruptions, outages or delays in our systems or those of our third party providers, or deterioration in the performance of these systems, could impair our ability to provide services and/or process certain transactions with customers. Furthermore, data security breaches (as a result of the actions of hackers or otherwise), fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God and other similar events or disruptions may damage or interrupt computer, data, broadband or other communications systems at any time. Any event of this nature could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services to users and customers. While we have backup systems for certain aspects of our operations, our systems are not fully redundant and disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to compensate for losses from a major interruption. In particular, our destination search websites may be adversely affected by fraudulent, surreptitious or other unwanted computer programs, applications and activity that make changes to users' computers and interfere with the overall experience of our services, such as by hijacking queries to these websites or altering or replacing search results generated. This type of interference often occurs without 20 Table of Contents disclosure to or consent from users, resulting in a negative experience that users may associate with us. These disruptive programs and applications may be difficult or impossible to uninstall or disable, may reinstall themselves and may circumvent efforts to block or remove them. In addition, downloadable toolbars through which we provide search services are also subject to attack by viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, which could jeopardize the security of information stored in users' computer or in our systems and networks. No assurances can be given that our efforts to combat these malicious applications will be successful and/or that our products and services will not have (or will not be perceived to have) vulnerabilities in this regard. If any of these events were to occur, it could damage our reputation and result in the loss of current and potential users and customers, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and otherwise be costly to remedy. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties IAC believes that the facilities for its management and operations are generally adequate for its current and near-term future needs. IAC's facilities, most of which are leased by IAC's businesses in various cities and locations in the United States and jurisdictions abroad, generally consist of executive and administrative offices, operations centers, data centers and sales offices. All of IAC's leases are at prevailing market rates. IAC believes that the duration of each lease is adequate. IAC believes that its principal properties, whether owned or leased, are currently adequate for the purposes for which they are used and are suitably maintained for these purposes. IAC does not anticipate any future problems renewing or obtaining suitable leases for its principal properties. IAC's approximately 202,500 square foot corporate headquarters in New York, New York houses offices for IAC corporate and certain other IAC businesses. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to litigation involving property, personal injury, contract, intellectual property and other claims. The amounts that may be recovered in such matters may be subject to insurance coverage. 21 Table of Contents Rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission require the description of material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary, routine litigation incident to the registrant's business, and advise that proceedings ordinarily need not be described if they primarily involve damages claims for amounts (exclusive of interest and costs) not exceeding 10% of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In the judgment of management, none of the pending litigation matters which the Company and its subsidiaries are defending, including those described below, involves or is likely to involve amounts of that magnitude. The litigation matters described below involve issues or claims that may be of particular interest to the Company's shareholders, regardless of whether any of these matters may be material to the financial position or operations of the Company based upon the standard set forth in the SEC's rules. Securities Class Action Litigation against IAC As previously disclosed in a number of the Company's filings on SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q, beginning on September 20, 2004, twelve purported shareholder class actions were commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against IAC and certain of its officers and directors, alleging violations of the federal securities laws. These cases arose out of the Company's August 4, 2004 announcement of its earnings for the second quarter of 2004 and generally alleged that the value of the Company's stock was artificially inflated by pre-announcement statements about its financial results and forecasts that were false and misleading due to the defendants' alleged failure to disclose various problems faced by the Company's travel businesses (which in 2005 were spun off into a separate public company, Expedia, Inc.). On December 20, 2004, the district court consolidated the twelve lawsuits, appointed co-lead plaintiffs, and designated co-lead plaintiffs' counsel. See In re IAC/InterActiveCorp Securities Litigation , No. 04-CV-7447 (S.D.N.Y.). On October 18, 2004, a related shareholder derivative action, Stuart Garber, Derivatively on Behalf of IAC/InterActiveCorp v. Barry Diller et al. , No. 04-603416, was commenced in the Supreme Court of the State of New York (New York County) against certain of IAC's officers and directors. On November 15, 2004, another related shareholder derivative action, Lisa Butler, Derivatively on Behalf of IAC/InterActiveCorp v. Barry Diller et al. , No. 04-CV-9067, was filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against certain of IAC's current and former directors. On January 24, 2005, the federal district court consolidated the Butler case with the securities class action for pre-trial purposes only. On February 2, 2005, the defendants in the Garber case removed it from New York state court to the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. On April 11, 2005, the district court issued a similar consolidation order in respect of the Garber case. On May 20, 2005, the plaintiffs in the federal securities class action filed a consolidated amended complaint. Like its twelve predecessors, the amended complaint generally alleged that the value of the Company's stock was artificially inflated by pre-announcement statements about the Company's financial results and forecasts that were false and misleading due to the defendants' alleged failure to disclose various problems faced by the Company's then travel businesses. The plaintiffs sought to represent a class of shareholders who purchased IAC common stock between March 31, 2003 and August 3, 2004. The defendants were IAC and fourteen current or former officers or directors of the Company or its former Expedia travel business. The complaint purported to assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, as well as Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, and sought damages in an unspecified amount. On July 5, 2005, the plaintiffs in the related shareholder suits filed a consolidated shareholder derivative complaint. The defendants were IAC (as a nominal defendant) and sixteen current or former officers or directors of the Company or its former Expedia travel business. The complaint, which was based upon factual allegations similar to those in the securities class action, purported to assert claims for breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets, unjust 22 Table of Contents enrichment, violation of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and contribution and indemnification. The complaint sought an order voiding the election of the Company's then current Board of Directors, as well as damages in an unspecified amount, various forms of equitable relief, restitution and disgorgement of remuneration received by the individual defendants from the Company. On September 15, 2005, IAC and the other defendants filed motions to dismiss both the securities class action and the shareholder derivative suits, which motions the plaintiffs opposed. On October 12, 2006, the court heard oral argument on the motions. On March 22, 2007, the court issued an opinion and order: (i) granting the defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint in the securities class action, with leave to replead; and (ii) granting the defendants' motion to dismiss the complaint in the shareholder derivative suits, with prejudice. On April 24, 2007, the plaintiffs in the shareholder derivative suits filed a notice of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from the district court's order of dismissal. On consent of the parties, the appeal was later withdrawn from active consideration by the court of appeals. In addition, the plaintiffs stipulated that they would abandon their appeal if the district court were to dismiss with prejudice the second amended complaint in the securities class action (as described below). On May 15, 2007, the plaintiffs in the securities class action filed a second amended complaint. The new pleading continued to allege that the defendants failed to disclose material information concerning problems at the Company's then-travel businesses and to assert the same legal claims as its predecessor. On August 15, 2007, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the second amended complaint, which motion the plaintiffs opposed. On March 19, 2010, the district court issued a memorandum opinion and order granting the defendants' motion and dismissing the second amended complaint with prejudice. Judgment was entered on March 20, 2010 and the plaintiffs did not appeal. On April 1, 2010, as a result of the district court's ruling, the plaintiffs' appeal from the dismissal of the complaint in the two related consolidated shareholder derivative suits was dismissed with prejudice on consent. Item 4. Removed and Reserved. Former Item 4, Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders, has been removed and reserved in compliance with Form 10-K. 23 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters IAC common stock is quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, or "NASDAQ," under the ticker symbol "IACI." There is no established public trading market for IAC Class B common stock. The table below sets forth, for the calendar periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share for IAC common stock as reported on NASDAQ. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Fourth Quarter $ 30.96 $ 25.08 Third Quarter 27.09 21.47 Second Quarter 24.11 20.25 First Quarter 24.47 20.01 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Fourth Quarter $ 20.97 $ 18.70 Third Quarter 21.28 15.58 Second Quarter 17.15 14.85 First Quarter 16.52 13.23 As of February 22, 2011, there were approximately 2,000 holders of record of the Company's common stock and the closing price of IAC common stock on NASDAQ was $31.16. Because many of the outstanding shares of IAC common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of shareholders, IAC is not able to estimate the total number of beneficial shareholders represented by these record holders. As of February 22, 2011, there was one holder of record of the Company's Class B common stock. IAC has paid no cash dividends on its common stock or Class B common stock to date and does not anticipate paying cash dividends on its common stock or Class B common stock in the immediate future. During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, the Company did not issue or sell any shares of its common stock or other equity securities pursuant to unregistered transactions. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The Company did not purchase any shares of its common stock pursuant to previously announced repurchase authorizations during the quarter ended December 31, 2010. As of January 28, 2011, approximately 7.2 million shares of common stock remained available for repurchase under the Company's previously announced February 2010 repurchase authorization. The Company may purchase shares pursuant to this repurchase authorization over an indefinite period of time, depending on those factors Company management deems relevant at any particular time, including, without limitation, market conditions, share price and future outlook. As discussed in "Item 1BusinessEquity Ownership and Vote" and "Item 8Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary DataNote 11,"on December 1, 2010, by way of the IAC-Liberty Exchange, IAC acquired 8,510,500 shares of Class B common stock and 4,169,499 shares of common stock. 24 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2010 should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included herein. Statement of Operations Data (1) : Revenue $ 1,636,815 $ 1,346,695 $ 1,410,078 $ 1,301,969 $ 972,961 Operating income (loss) 49,795 (1,037,987 ) (44,254 ) (67,515 ) (104,385 ) (Loss) earnings from continuing operations, net of tax (9,393 ) (956,473 ) 141,935 1,051 (23,122 ) Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 103,745 (23,439 ) (306,096 ) (149,681 ) 209,420 Net earnings (loss) attributable to IAC shareholders 99,359 (978,822 ) (156,201 ) (144,069 ) 187,065 (Loss) earnings per common share from continuing operations attributable to IAC shareholders Basic (0.04 ) (6.89 ) 1.07 0.04 (0.15 ) Diluted (0.04 ) (6.89 ) 1.04 0.04 (0.15 ) Balance Sheet Data at December 31: Cash and cash equivalents $ 742,099 $ 1,245,997 $ 1,744,994 $ 1,585,302 $ 1,428,140 Marketable securities 563,997 487,591 125,592 326,788 897,742 Total assets 3,439,554 4,015,889 5,251,320 12,590,802 13,243,156 Long-term obligations, net of current maturities 95,844 95,844 95,844 834,542 837,048 Redeemable noncontrolling interests 59,869 28,180 22,771 32,880 24,212 Shareholders' equity 2,430,933 3,127,826 4,427,536 8,583,662 8,739,474 (1) We recognized items that affected the comparability of results for the years 2010, 2009 and 2008, see "Item 7Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW IAC is a leading internet company with more than 50 brands serving consumer audiences across more than 30 countries our mission is to harness the power of interactivity to make daily life easier and more productive for people all over the world. IAC includes the businesses comprising its Search segment; its Match and ServiceMagic segments; the businesses comprising its Media & Other segment; as well as investments in unconsolidated affiliates. Results Set forth below are the contributions made by our various segments and corporate operations to consolidated revenue, operating income (loss) and Operating Income Before Amortization (as defined in IAC's Principles of Financial Reporting) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 (dollars in thousands). Revenue: Search $ 837,134 23 % $ 681,781 (9 )% $ 753,075 Match 400,723 17 % 342,598 (6 )% 365,505 ServiceMagic 181,423 16 % 155,813 26 % 123,914 Media & Other 219,896 30 % 168,787 (7 )% 182,116 Inter-segment elimination (2,361 ) (3 )% (2,284 ) 84 % (14,532 ) Total $ 1,636,815 22 % $ 1,346,695 (4 )% $ 1,410,078 Operating Income (Loss): Search $ 112,867 NM $ (980,231 ) NM $ 106,085 Match 115,367 36 % 84,655 12 % 75,490 ServiceMagic 16,448 23 % 13,383 (44 )% 23,983 Media & Other (47,539 ) (115 )% (22,061 ) 50 % (44,180 ) Corporate (147,348 ) (10 )% (133,733 ) 35 % (205,632 ) Total $ 49,795 NM $ (1,037,987 ) (2,246 )% $ (44,254 ) Operating Income Before Amortization: Search $ 125,549 37 % $ 91,615 (37 )% $ 144,940 Match 122,057 30 % 94,124 3 % 91,266 ServiceMagic 18,165 (15 )% 21,286 (19 )% 26,244 Media & Other (12,009 ) 39 % (19,699 ) 22 % (25,334 ) Corporate (64,183 ) 2 % (65,465 ) 46 % (120,942 ) Total $ 189,579 56 % $ 121,861 5 % $ 116,174 26 Table of Contents Refer to Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for reconciliations by segment of Operating Income Before Amortization to operating income (loss). Sources of Revenue Substantially all of the revenue from our Search segment is derived from online advertising, with the majority of this revenue attributable to our paid listing supply agreement with Google Inc. ("Google"). The revenue earned from our Match segment is derived from subscription fees for its subscription-based online personals services and online advertising. ServiceMagic's revenue is derived from fees paid by members of its network of service professionals for consumer leads, regardless of whether the service professional that receives the lead ultimately provides the requested service, as well as from one-time fees charged upon enrollment and activation of new service professionals in its network. The revenue earned by the Media & Other segment includes merchandise sales, online advertising and content production. Strategic Partnerships, Advertiser Relationships and Online Advertising Spend Our various businesses provide supplier partners with important customer acquisition channels and we believe that the ability of our supplier partners to reach a large qualified audience through our services is a significant benefit. While we aim to build and maintain strong relationships with our supplier partners, we may not succeed in these efforts and there is always the risk that certain supplier partners may not make their products and services available to us in the future. A significant component of the Company's revenue is attributable to a paid listing supply agreement with Google, which expires on December 31, 2012. The termination of the paid listing supply agreement by Google or the failure of Google to perform its obligations under the agreement would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our inability to obtain a renewal of our agreement with Google with substantially comparable economic and other terms upon the expiration of our current agreement could have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these events were to occur, we may not be able to find another suitable alternate paid listings provider (or if an alternate were found, the economic and other terms of the agreement and the quality of paid listings may be inferior relative to our arrangements with, and the paid listings supplied by, Google) or otherwise replace the lost revenue, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, revenue earned from Google was $727.9 million, $561.9 million and $610.7 million, respectively. The majority of this revenue is earned by the businesses comprising the Search segment. We market and offer our products and services directly to consumers through branded websites and membership programs, allowing consumers to transact directly with us in a convenient manner. We have made, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in online and offline advertising to build our brands and drive traffic to our websites and consumers and advertisers to our businesses. We pay traffic acquisition costs which consist of payments made to partners who distribute our toolbars, integrate our paid listings into their websites or direct traffic to our websites. We also pay to market and distribute our services on third party distribution channels, such as internet portals and search engines. In addition, some of our businesses manage affiliate programs, pursuant to which we pay commissions and fees to third parties based on revenue earned. These distribution channels might also offer their own products and services, as well as those of other third parties, which compete with those we offer. 27 Table of Contents The cost of acquiring new consumers through online and offline third party distribution channels has increased, particularly in the case of online channels as internet commerce continues to grow and competition in the segments in which IAC's businesses operate increases. Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 Consolidated Results Revenue Revenue $1,636,815 22% $1,346,695 (4)% $1,410,078 Revenue in 2010 increased $290.1 million from 2009 primarily as a result of revenue increases of $155.4 million from Search, $58.1 million from Match, $51.1 million from Media & Other and $25.6 million from ServiceMagic. Revenue reflects double digit growth across all segments. The increase from Search reflects growth in queries from distributed and proprietary toolbars and destination websites. The increase in revenue from Match reflects strong growth from the domestic business, including the combined contribution from People Media, acquired July 13, 2009, and Singlesnet, acquired March 2, 2010, partially offset by a decrease in revenue due to the sale of Match Europe to Meetic, on June 5, 2009. Also contributing to the increase in revenue from Match is the impact of Match's venture with Meetic in Latin America, which was formed March 10, 2010. The increase in revenue from Media & Other was driven by the contribution from Notional and Electus, which were not in the full prior year period, and growth at Pronto, Shoebuy, CollegeHumor and Vimeo. The increase in revenue from ServiceMagic was primarily due to an increase in accepted domestic service requests driven primarily by increased marketing efforts and a more active service provider network. Revenue in 2009 decreased $63.4 million from 2008 primarily as a result of revenue decreases of $71.3 million from Search and $22.9 million from Match, partially offset by an increase of $31.9 million from ServiceMagic. The decrease from Search was driven by a sharp decline in network revenue, resulting from the discontinuation of relationships with certain partners that took place during 2008 in conjunction with the renewed Google agreement. Partially offsetting this decline is the continued growth in partners and queries at the toolbar business and the favorable impact in 2009 from the acquisition of Lexico, which includes Dictionary.com and Thesaurus.com, on July 3, 2008. The decrease in revenue at Match was driven by the sale of Match Europe to Meetic, partially offset by the favorable impact from the acquisition of People Media and solid growth in the U.S. business. The increase in revenue from ServiceMagic was primarily due to a more active service provider network resulting in a 25% increase in the number of times service requests were accepted by a service professional and a shift in the mix of requests to higher value service requests driven, in part, by increased marketing efforts. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue $593,816 38% $429,849 (6)% $456,950 As a percentage of total revenue 36% 436 bp 32% (49) bp 32% bp = basis points Cost of revenue consists primarily of traffic acquisition costs. Traffic acquisition costs consist of payments made to partners who distribute our toolbars, integrate our paid listings into their websites or direct traffic to our websites. These payments include amounts based on revenue share and other arrangements. Cost of revenue also includes the cost of products sold and shipping and handling costs, as well as expenses associated with the operation of the Company's data centers, including compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in data center functions, rent, energy and bandwidth costs, and content acquisition costs. Cost of revenue in 2010 increased $164.0 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $121.6 million from Search, $27.7 million from Media & Other and $10.3 million from Match. The increase in cost of revenue from Search was primarily due to an increase of $108.5 million in traffic acquisition costs related to an increase in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs increased over the prior year due to an increase in the proportion of revenue from distributed toolbars and other arrangements with third parties who direct traffic to our websites, as well as a shift in partner mix to partners carrying higher traffic acquisition costs. Cost of revenue from Media & Other increased due to Notional, which is not in the full prior year period, The Daily Beast and an increase of $6.0 million in the cost of products sold at Shoebuy due to increased sales. The increase in cost of revenue from Match was primarily due to the acquisitions of People Media and Singlesnet and the formation of the Latin America venture, partially offset by the sale of Match Europe to Meetic. Cost of revenue in 2009 decreased $27.1 million from 2008 primarily due to decreases of $20.7 million from Match and $6.5 million from Media & Other. The decrease in cost of revenue from Match was primarily due to a decrease of $20.0 million in traffic acquisition costs resulting primarily from the sale of Match Europe and the impact of more favorable economic terms under agreements with certain distribution partners. Cost of revenue from Media & Other decreased primarily due to the sale of ReserveAmerica on January 31, 2009, partially offset by The Daily Beast, as well as an increase of $3.0 million in the cost of products sold at Shoebuy due to increased sales. Selling and marketing expense Selling and marketing expense $492,206 6% $463,439 4% $444,571 As a percentage of total revenue 30% (434) bp 34% 288 bp 32% Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of advertising and promotional expenditures and compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in sales, sales support and customer service functions. Advertising and promotional expenditures include online marketing, including fees paid to search engines and third parties that distribute our proprietary toolbars, and offline marketing, including television and radio advertising. 29 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expense in 2010 increased $28.8 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $21.0 million from ServiceMagic, $15.1 million from Match and $7.0 million from Media & Other, partially offset by a decrease of $13.4 million from Search. The increase in selling and marketing expense from ServiceMagic is due to increases of $14.0 million and $7.0 million in marketing and compensation and other employee-related costs, respectively. The increase in compensation and other employee-related costs from ServiceMagic is primarily due to the expansion of its sales force. The increase in selling and marketing expense from Match is primarily due to an increase of $13.3 million in advertising and promotional expenditures related primarily to a new advertising agreement entered into during the second quarter of 2010 with Yahoo! Inc. ("Yahoo"), as well as from the impact of the acquisitions of People Media and Singlesnet and the formation of the Latin America venture, partially offset by the sale of Match Europe to Meetic. Selling and marketing expense from Media & Other increased primarily due to higher online marketing costs at Pronto and advertising and promotional expenditures related to Vimeo's 2010 video festival. Partially offsetting these factors is a decrease from Search primarily due to lower advertising and promotional expenditures of $7.2 million, as the prior year included expenditures associated with the NASCAR partnership and an ad campaign to rebrand the Ask Jeeves UK website, as well as a decrease in compensation and other employee-related costs at CityGrid Media, due in part, to a decrease in average headcount. Selling and marketing expense in 2009 increased $18.9 million from 2008 primarily due to an increase of $25.1 million from ServiceMagic, partially offset by a decrease of $10.2 million from Match. The increase in selling and marketing expense from ServiceMagic is primarily due to an increase of $19.8 million in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online marketing and an increase of $5.2 million in compensation and other employee-related costs due primarily to the expansion of its sales force. The growth in service requests during the year from paid channels outpaced the growth in free requests as a result of the increase in online marketing. Partially offsetting these increases in selling and marketing expense is lower advertising and promotional expenditures of $7.8 million from Match. This decrease is due primarily to the sale of Match Europe, partially offset by an increase in online marketing. General and administrative expense General and administrative expense $316,500 12% $282,393 (19)% $346,623 As a percentage of total revenue 19% (163) bp 21% (361) bp 25% General and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) for personnel engaged in executive management, finance, legal, tax and human resources, facilities costs and fees for professional services. General and administrative expense in 2010 increased $34.1 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $12.4 million from corporate, $10.5 million from Media & Other, $5.6 million from ServiceMagic and $5.5 million from Search. General and administrative expense from corporate increased primarily due to an increase of $10.3 million in non-cash compensation expense and $5.3 million of transaction expenses in the current year related to the exchange of substantially all of Liberty Media Corporation's ("Liberty") equity stake in IAC, partially offset by lower salary expense. On December 1, 2010, the Company entered into a stock exchange agreement with Liberty. Under the agreement, Liberty agreed to exchange with IAC 4.3 million shares of common stock and 8.5 million shares of Class B common stock, which were valued at $364.2 million based on the closing price of IAC common stock on December 1, 2010, for Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions and 30 Table of Contents $217.9 million in cash (referred to herein as the "Liberty Exchange"). The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily related to an increase in expense attributable to awards granted subsequent to the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by awards having become fully vested. The increase in general and administrative expense from Media & Other is principally due to Electus and Notional, which were not in the full prior year period, as well as increased operating expenses associated with Vimeo, partially offset by the cost savings related to certain businesses that have been sold or shutdown. General and administrative expense at ServiceMagic increased primarily due to higher compensation and other employee-related costs. The increase in general and administrative expense from Search is primarily due to an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs at our toolbar business and employee termination costs associated with the Ask.com restructuring, partially offset by a decrease in litigation related expenses. General and administrative expense in 2009 decreased $64.2 million from 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $66.1 million from corporate. The decrease from corporate is primarily due to the inclusion in 2008 of $42.0 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off, as well as a decrease in the current year in compensation and other employee-related costs, including stock-based compensation. The decrease in non-cash compensation of $16.4 million reflects the impact in 2008 of the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off. Product development expense Product development expense $65,097 13% $57,843 (9)% $63,817 As a percentage of total revenue 4% (32) bp 4% (23) bp 5% Product development expense consists primarily of compensation and other employee-related costs (including stock-based compensation) that are not capitalized for personnel engaged in the design, development, testing and enhancement of product offerings and related technology. Product development expense in 2010 increased $7.3 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $3.3 million from Match and $2.3 million from Search. Contributing to the increase in product development expense at Match is an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs driven by growth in headcount related to recent acquisitions. The increase in product development expense from Search is primarily due to the inclusion in the current year of employee termination costs associated with the Ask.com restructuring. Product development expense in 2009 decreased $6.0 million from 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $4.9 million in compensation and other employee-related costs from Search which is due in part to a decrease of 7% in average headcount at IAC Search & Media and an increase in costs being capitalized in 2009 related to IAC Search & Media's product offerings and related technology. Depreciation Depreciation $63,897 4% $61,391 (9)% $67,716 As a percentage of total revenue 4% (65) bp 5% (24) bp 5% 31 Table of Contents Depreciation in 2010 increased $2.5 million from 2009 primarily due to the write-off of certain capitalized software costs associated with the Ask.com restructuring. Depreciation in 2009 decreased $6.3 million from 2008 primarily due to certain fixed assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by the incremental depreciation associated with capital expenditures made during 2009 and 2008. Operating Income Before Amortization Operating Income Before Amortization $189,579 56% $121,861 5% $116,174 As a percentage of total revenue 12% 253 bp 9% 81 bp 8% Operating Income Before Amortization in 2010 increased $67.7 million from 2009 primarily due to increases of $33.9 million and $27.9 million from Search and Match, respectively, and reduced losses of $7.7 million at Media & Other. The increase in Operating Income Before Amortization reflects higher revenue across these segments, as well as lower marketing costs from Search, a reduction in acquisition related expenses from Match and cost savings related to certain businesses that have been sold or shutdown and the profit participations related to our interests in Reveille from Media & Other. Operating Income Before Amortization in 2009 increased $5.7 million from 2008 primarily due to a decrease of $55.5 million in corporate expenses due in part to the inclusion in 2008 of $42.0 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off and a decrease in compensation and other employee-related costs. Partially offsetting these increases in Operating Income Before Amortization is a decrease of $53.3 million from Search resulting primarily from lower overall revenue and higher traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue. Operating income (loss) Operating income (loss) $49,795 NM $(1,037,987) (2,246)% $(44,254) As a percentage of total revenue 3% NM (77)% (7,394) bp (3)% Operating income in 2010 increased $1.1 billion from 2009 primarily due to a decrease of $888.8 million in goodwill impairment charges described below and an increase of $67.7 million in Operating Income Before Amortization described above. Further contributing to the increase in operating income are decreases of $16.8 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charges noted below, and $15.9 million in amortization of non-cash marketing, partially offset by an increase of $14.2 million in non-cash compensation expense. The decrease in amortization of intangibles is primarily due to a decrease at Search, partially offset by an increase at Match relating to the acquisition of Singlesnet and its venture formed with Meetic in Latin America. The amortization of non-cash marketing referred to in this report consists of non-cash advertising credits secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which Vivendi Universal Entertainment, LLLP ("VUE") was created, and the subsequent transaction by which IAC sold its partnership interests in VUE. The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily related to an increase in expense attributable to awards granted subsequent to the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by awards having become fully vested. 32 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2010, there was $137.9 million of unrecognized compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures, related to all equity-based awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 2.2 years. In connection with the Company's annual impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company identified and recorded impairment charges at the Media & Other segment related to the write-down of the goodwill and intangible assets of Shoebuy of $28.0 million and $4.5 million, respectively, and at the Search segment related to the write-down of an indefinite-lived intangible asset of IAC Search & Media of $11.0 million. The goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges at Shoebuy reflect expectations of lower revenue and profit performance in future years due to Shoebuy's 2010 fourth quarter revenue and profit performance, which is its seasonally strongest quarter. The indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge at IAC Search & Media is primarily due to lower future revenue projections associated with a trade name and trademark based largely upon the impact of 2010's full year results. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company identified and recorded impairment charges at the Search segment related to the write-down of the goodwill and intangible assets of IAC Search & Media of $916.9 million and $128.3 million, respectively. The impairments reflected lower projections for revenue and profits at IAC Search & Media in future years that reflected the Company's consideration of industry growth rates, competitive dynamics and IAC Search & Media's operating strategies and the impact of these factors on the fair value of IAC Search & Media and its goodwill and intangible assets. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the Company identified and recorded impairment charges related to the write-down of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of Connected Ventures, which is included in the Media & Other segment, of $11.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively, and the indefinite-lived intangible assets of the Search segment of $9.2 million. The impairment at Connected Ventures resulted from the Company's assessment of its future profitability. The impairment at the Search segment primarily resulted from the decline in revenue and profitability at IAC Search & Media's Excite, iWon and MyWay portals businesses. The intangible asset impairment charges are included in amortization of intangibles in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. The intangible asset impairment charges were determined by comparing the fair values of the respective reporting unit's intangible assets with the carrying values. The goodwill impairment charges were determined by comparing the implied fair value of the respective reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying value. Fair values were determined using discounted cash flow analyses. Operating loss in 2009 increased $993.7 million from 2008 primarily due to the impairment charges described above. Partially offsetting this increase in operating loss is an increase of $5.7 million in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and the decreases of $15.7 million in non-cash compensation expense, $4.1 million in amortization of non-cash marketing and $1.7 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charges described above. The decrease in non-cash compensation expense is primarily due to the expense in the prior year related to the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off. 33 Table of Contents Other income (expense) Other income (expense): Interest income $ 6,517 (36 )% $ 10,218 (59 )% $ 24,750 Interest expense (5,404 ) (7 )% (5,823 ) (82 )% (32,363 ) Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates (25,676 ) 83 % (14,014 ) NM 16,640 Gain on sales of long-term investments 3,989 (86 )% 28,835 (92 )% 381,099 Other (expense) income, net (6,535 ) NM 71,772 NM (234,632 ) Interest income in 2010 decreased $3.7 million from 2009 primarily due to the impact of lower average investment balances and lower average interest rates. Equity in losses of unconsolidated affiliates in 2010 increased $11.7 million from 2009 primarily due to an $18.3 million impairment charge to write-down the Company's investment in The HealthCentral Network, Inc. ("HealthCentral") to fair value. The decline in value was determined to be other-than-temporary due to HealthCentral's continued losses and negative operating cash flows, which are due, in part, to macroeconomic and industry specific factors. The valuation of our investment in HealthCentral reflects the Company's assessment of these factors. The Company estimated the fair value of its investment in HealthCentral using a multiple of revenue approach in the context of a different valuation environment than that which prevailed when our initial investment was made. Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates also includes reduced losses related to the Company's investment in Meetic due, in part, to a decrease in amortization of intangibles. Gain on sale of long-term investments in 2010 represents a gain of $4.0 million related to the sale of our remaining shares of OpenTable. Other expense in 2010 of $6.5 million is primarily due to a $7.8 million impairment charge related to the Company's cost method investment in Zip Express Installation ("Zip"). The impairment charge was determined to be other-than-temporary due to Zip's inability to achieve its 2010 cash flow forecast during its seasonally strongest fourth quarter and the Company's assessment that Zip would be unable to continue to operate without new outside funding. Interest income in 2009 decreased $14.5 million from 2008 primarily due to the impact of lower average interest rates resulting, in part, from a reallocation of investments during the second half of 2008 into lower risk and lower yield treasury and government agency funds, partially offset by higher average investment balances throughout the year. Interest expense in 2009 decreased $26.5 million from 2008 as the average amount of debt outstanding during the year decreased due to the extinguishment of $734.2 million of the Senior Notes. Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates in 2009 decreased $30.7 million from 2008 primarily due to the inclusion in 2008 of $29.8 million related to the equity in earnings of our former investment in Jupiter Shop Channel Co., Ltd. ("Jupiter Shop"), a Japanese TV shopping company, and a loss of $5.5 million from the Company's investment in Meetic, which is not in the 2008 period. The loss from the investment in Meetic is due to the write-off of Meetic's deferred revenue and the amortization of intangibles, required by purchase accounting rules. Equity in (losses) income of unconsolidated affiliates in 2008 included a $5.5 million impairment charge to write-down an equity method investment to its fair value. The decline in value was determined to be other-than-temporary due to the equity method investee's operating losses, negative operating cash flow and the resulting need for changes to the investee's existing business model. The resulting valuation of the investee also reflected the assessment of market conditions and the investee's ability to successfully restructure. 34 Table of Contents Gain on sales of long-term investments in 2009 of $28.8 million primarily represents a gain of $39.6 million related to the Company's sale of 2.0 million shares of OpenTable. Partially offsetting this gain is a loss of $12.3 million related to the Company's sale of 5.5 million shares of Arcandor AG ("ARO") stock, which the Company received as part of the consideration for the sale of HSE in June 2007; the Company also received a contingent value right ("CVR") in conjunction with the sale of HSE. Other income in 2009 of $71.8 million is primarily due to a $132.2 million gain related to the June 5, 2009 sale of Match Europe to Meetic. In exchange for its European operations, Match received a 27% stake in Meetic. Partially offsetting the increase in other income in 2009 are charges of $58.1 million and $4.6 million related to the write-down of the CVR and the impairment of the Company's shares of ARO stock, respectively. ARO filed for insolvency on June 9, 2009. The write-down related to the CVR was based upon the Company's assessment of the value that it expects to recover from the insolvency proceedings. The impairment charge related to the ARO stock was based on the Company's conclusion that the decline in ARO's stock price was other-than-temporary due, in part, to ARO's insolvency filing. Gain on sales of long-term investments in 2008 represents a gain of $352.0 million on the sale of the Company's investment in Jupiter Shop and a gain of $29.1 million associated with the sale of the Company's preferred investment in Points International, Ltd. ("Points"). On December 8, 2008 the Company sold its 30% equity stake in Jupiter Shop for $493.3 million. Other expense in 2008 of $234.6 million is primarily due to the impairment charges of $166.7 million and $13.3 million related to the Company's investment in ARO, and certain other investments, respectively. The impairment charge resulted from the Company's conclusion that the decline in the value of the investment in ARO was other-than-temporary due to the significant decline in, and the Company's assessment of the near-to-medium term prospects for a recovery of, the ARO stock price. Other expense in 2008 also reflects a $63.2 million loss on the extinguishment of $734.2 million of the Senior Notes. Income tax provision In 2010, the Company recorded an income tax provision for continuing operations of $32.1 million, which represents an effective tax rate of 141%. The 2010 tax rate is higher than the federal statutory rate of 35% due principally to non-deductible impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets, interest on tax contingencies, a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset created by the impairment charge for our investment in HealthCentral and state taxes, partially offset by foreign tax credits, foreign income taxed at lower rates, and the reversal of a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset related to an unconsolidated affiliate. In 2009, the Company recorded an income tax provision for continuing operations of $9.5 million, despite losses from continuing operations. The tax provision is primarily due to non-deductible impairment charges related to IAC Search & Media. In 2008, the Company recorded an income tax benefit for continuing operations of $30.7 million, despite income from continuing operations. The tax benefit is due to a net reduction in deferred tax liabilities caused by the Spin-Off, foreign tax credits generated by the sale of Jupiter Shop, foreign income taxed at lower rates, and state tax benefits, partially offset by changes in tax reserves, non-deductible costs related to the Spin-Off, and an increase in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets related to other-than-temporary losses related to certain investments. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had unrecognized tax benefits of $389.9 million and $394.3 million, respectively. Unrecognized tax benefits for December 31, 2010 decreased by $4.4 million due principally to a net decrease in deductible temporary differences and decreases in reserves established in prior years for statute lapses, partially offset by an increase in reserves related to research credits. The Company recognizes interest and, if applicable, penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. Included in the income tax expense from continuing operations and 35 Table of Contents discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 is a $9.1 million expense and a $7.0 million expense, net of related deferred taxes of $5.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively, for interest on unrecognized tax benefits. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company has accrued $97.7 million and $68.7 million, respectively, for the payment of interest. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company has accrued $5.0 million for penalties. The Company is routinely under audit by federal, state, local and foreign authorities in the area of income tax. These audits include questioning the timing and the amount of income and deductions and the allocation of income and deductions among various tax jurisdictions. The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company's tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2001 through 2006. The statute of limitations for these years has currently been extended to December 31, 2011, but is expected to be extended further. Various state, local and foreign jurisdictions are currently under examination, the most significant of which are California, New York and New York City for various tax years beginning with December 31, 2003. Income taxes payable include reserves considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examination of prior year tax returns. Changes to reserves from period to period and differences between amounts paid, if any, upon resolution of issues raised in audits and amounts previously provided may be material. Differences between the reserves for tax contingencies and the amounts owed by the Company are recorded in the period they become known. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits could decrease by $41.3 million within twelve months of the current reporting date primarily due to expirations of statutes of limitation, the reversal of deductible temporary differences that will primarily result in a corresponding decrease in net deferred tax assets, the reversal of state tax reserves based upon the receipt of favorable income tax rulings, and settlements. Included in this amount is $4.9 million which will reverse in the first quarter of 2011 as a result of the receipt of a favorable state income tax ruling. An estimate of other changes in unrecognized tax benefits, while potentially significant, cannot be made. Discontinued operations Gain on Liberty Exchange $ 140,768 NM $ $ Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of tax (100 )% 23,314 Loss from discontinued operations, net of tax (37,023 ) 58 % (23,439 ) (93 )% (329,410 ) Discontinued operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations include InstantAction, which ceased operations during the fourth quarter of 2010, Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions through December 1, 2010, HSNi, ILG, Ticketmaster and Tree.com through August 20, 2008, and EPI through May 30, 2008. The Company recognized after-tax gains of $140.8 million on the tax-free exchange of Evite, Gifts.com and IAC Advertising Solutions in 2010 and $22.3 million on the sale of EPI in 2008. The 2010 amount is primarily due to losses of InstantAction, which includes a pre-tax impairment charge related to goodwill of $31.6 million. The 2009 amount is principally due to losses of InstantAction and tax return to provision adjustments related to the spun-off entities and interest on tax contingencies. The 2008 amount is principally due to the losses of HSNi, Tree.com and EPI, which include pre-tax impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets of $221.5 million and $78.5 million, respectively, for HSNi and $132.5 million and $33.4 million, respectively, for Tree.com. The losses from HSNi, Tree.com and EPI were partially offset by income of Ticketmaster and ILG. 36 Table of Contents Segment Results In addition to the discussion of consolidated results above, the following is a discussion of the results of each segment. Search Our Search segment consists of toolbars that we develop, market and distribute and destination search and other websites, including Ask.com and Dictionary.com, through which we primarily provide search, reference and content services, as well as CityGrid Media, a media company that operates CityGrid, a leading local content and advertising network through which local business listings, advertising and content are distributed to publishers across web and mobile platforms. For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 Revenue increased 23% to $837.1 million, reflecting growth in queries from distributed and proprietary toolbars and destination websites. The increase in queries from distributed toolbars is attributable to new partners and growth from existing partners, while the increase from proprietary toolbars and destination websites was driven by increased traffic acquisition efforts and enhancements within our proprietary toolbar business. Revenue was negatively impacted by a decline in revenue per query, as distributed toolbar queries generally monetize at lower rates. CityGrid Media revenue increased primarily due to the contribution from new resellers and growth from existing resellers. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 37% to $125.5 million, primarily due to the higher revenue noted above and a decrease of $13.4 million in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by increases of $108.5 million in traffic acquisition costs and $5.5 million in general and administrative expense. The decrease in selling and marketing expense is primarily due to a decrease of $7.2 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, as the prior year included expenditures associated with the NASCAR partnership and an ad campaign to rebrand the Ask Jeeves UK website, as well as a decrease in compensation and other employee-related costs at CityGrid Media, due in part, to a decrease in average headcount. The increase in traffic acquisition costs is primarily due to an increase in revenue. As a percentage of revenue, traffic acquisition costs increased over the prior year due to an increase in the proportion of revenue from distributed toolbars and other arrangements with third parties who direct traffic to our websites, as well as a shift in partner mix to partners carrying higher traffic acquisition costs. The increase in general and administrative expense is primarily due to an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs associated with growth in our toolbar business and employee termination costs associated with the Ask.com restructuring, partially offset by a decrease in litigation related expenses. Operating income increased $1.1 billion to $112.9 million, primarily due to the inclusion in the prior year of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges totaling $1.045 billion related to IAC Search & Media described below. In 2010 the Company identified and recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $11.0 million. The charge is due to lower future revenue projections associated with a trade name and trademark based largely upon the impact of 2010's full year results. Further contributing to the increase in operating income in the current year is an increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and decreases of $18.3 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charges, and $6.5 million in amortization of non-cash marketing. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue declined 9% to $681.8 million, primarily due to a sharp decline in network revenue, resulting from the discontinuation of relationships with certain partners that took place during 2008 in conjunction with the renewed Google agreement. The impact of this discontinuation was fully 37 Table of Contents anniversaried during the second quarter of 2009. Revenue declines also reflect a decrease in revenue per query at Ask.com resulting from fewer clicks per visit as users find what they are searching for sooner due to the site's improved user experience resulting from its relaunch in October 2008. Offsetting these decreases was the continued growth in partners and queries at the toolbar business and the favorable impact to revenue related to the acquisition of Lexico, which includes Dictionary.com and Thesaurus.com, on July 3, 2008. CityGrid Media's revenue decline reflected a difficult display advertising environment and transitional issues related to the relaunch of the site and the integration of a new ad serving platform. Operating Income Before Amortization decreased 37% to $91.6 million, primarily due to the lower revenue noted above and an increase of $4.4 million in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by decreases of $7.9 million in traffic acquisition costs and $5.6 million in product development expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily due to an increase of $4.1 million in advertising and promotional expenditures, including those associated with the NASCAR partnership and an ad campaign to rebrand the Ask Jeeves UK website. Overall traffic acquisition costs during the period decreased as a direct result of a sharp decline in network revenue at IAC Search & Media; however, traffic acquisition costs as a percentage of revenue increased. The decrease in product development expense is primarily due to a decrease of $4.9 million in compensation and other employee-related costs due, in part, to an approximate 7% reduction in average headcount at IAC Search & Media and an increase in costs being capitalized in 2009 related to the development and enhancement of IAC Search & Media's product offerings and related technology. Operating income decreased $1.1 billion to a loss of $980.2 million, primarily due to impairment charges related to the write-down of goodwill and intangible assets of IAC Search & Media of $916.9 million and $128.3 million, respectively. The impairment charges reflected lower projections for revenue and profits at IAC Search & Media in future years that reflected the Company's consideration of industry growth rates, competitive dynamics and IAC Search & Media's operating strategies and the impact of these factors on the fair value of IAC Search & Media and its goodwill and intangible assets. In 2008 the Company identified and recorded an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charge of $9.2 million related to the decline in revenue and profitability at IAC Search & Media's Excite, iWon and MyWay portals businesses. Further contributing to the decrease in operating income in the current year is the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and increases of $1.6 million in amortization of non-cash marketing and $0.6 million in non-cash compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease of $5.2 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charges described above. Match For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 Revenue increased 17% to $400.7 million, reflecting solid growth in the domestic business, including the combined contribution from People Media, acquired July 13, 2009, and Singlesnet, acquired March 2, 2010. Revenue in the current year also increased due to a venture with Meetic in Latin America, which was formed on March 10, 2010. These increases in revenue were partially offset by the effects of the sale of Match Europe to Meetic on June 5, 2009. Excluding the results of People Media from both the current and prior year, Match Europe from the prior year and Singlesnet and the Latin America venture from the current year, revenue grew 11%. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 30% to $122.1 million primarily due to the increase in revenue noted above, partially offset by increases of $15.1 million in selling and marketing expense, $10.3 million in cost of revenue and $3.3 million in product development expense. The increases in these expenses reflect the acquisitions of People Media and Singlesnet and the formation of the Latin America venture, partially offset by the sale of Match Europe. The increase in selling and 38 Table of Contents marketing expense is further impacted by an increase in advertising and promotional expenditures due to a new advertising agreement entered into during the second quarter of 2010 with Yahoo. Operating income increased 36% to $115.4 million, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above. Operating income also includes the impact in 2009 of $4.4 million in amortization of non-cash marketing, partially offset by an increase in 2010 of $1.9 million in amortization of intangibles, relating primarily to the acquisition of Singlesnet and the formation of the Latin America venture. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue declined 6% to $342.6 million, reflecting the sale of Match Europe to Meetic on June 5, 2009, partially offset by the contribution from People Media, acquired July 13, 2009, and solid growth in the U.S. business. Excluding the results of Match Europe from 2009 and 2008 and People Media from 2009, revenue grew 6%. Operating Income Before Amortization increased 3% to $94.1 million despite the decrease in revenue noted above, primarily due to decreases of $20.7 million in cost of revenue and $10.2 million in selling and marketing expense, partially offset by an increase of $3.2 million in general and administrative expense. The decrease in both cost of revenue and selling and marketing expense is primarily due to the sale of Match Europe. Cost of revenue and selling and marketing expense also decreased due to more favorable economic terms under agreements with certain distribution partners and an increase in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online marketing, respectively. The increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to $3.2 million of professional fees related to the sale of Match Europe. Operating income increased 12% to $84.7 million in 2009, primarily due to the increase in Operating Income Before Amortization described above and a decrease of $10.7 million in amortization of non-cash marketing, partially offset by an increase of $4.3 million in amortization of intangibles, relating primarily to the acquisition of People Media. ServiceMagic For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 Revenue increased 16% to $181.4 million, benefiting from a 14% increase in service requests and a 19% increase in accepted service requests domestically and from growth at ServiceMagic International, partially offset by lower average lead acceptance fees. The increase in service requests was driven primarily by increased online and offline marketing efforts. The increase in accepted service requests was driven, in part, by a 22% increase in service providers. A service request can be transmitted to more than one service provider and is deemed accepted upon transmission. Operating Income Before Amortization decreased 15% to $18.2 million despite the increase in revenue described above, primarily due to increases of $21.0 million in selling and marketing expense and $5.6 million in general and administrative expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily driven by increases of $14.0 million and $7.0 million in marketing and compensation and other employee-related costs, respectively. The increase in compensation and other employee-related costs is due, in part, to the expansion of its sales force. The increase in general and administrative expense is primarily due to an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs driven by growth in headcount related to ServiceMagic International. Operating Income Before Amortization reflects the reversal in 2010 of a $2.5 million provision for contingent consideration related to the 2009 acquisition of Market Hardware, that will not be earned. 39 Table of Contents Operating income increased 23% to $16.4 million, despite the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization described above primarily due to the inclusion in the prior year of $5.0 million in non-cash marketing and a decrease of $1.0 million in amortization of intangibles. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue grew 26% to $155.8 million, benefiting from a 20% increase in domestic service requests to a growing and more active service provider network and a shift in mix to higher value service requests driven, in part, by increased marketing efforts. During 2009, ServiceMagic experienced a 25% increase in domestic accepted service requests. Revenue also benefited from the combined contribution from ServiceMagic International, acquired October 29, 2008, and Market Hardware, acquired January 23, 2009. Excluding the results of these acquisitions, revenue grew 19%. Operating Income Before Amortization decreased 19% to $21.3 million, despite the increase in revenue noted above, reflecting increases of $25.1 million in selling and marketing expense and $9.1 million in general and administrative expense. The increase in selling and marketing expense is primarily driven by an increase in advertising and promotional expenditures associated with online marketing. The growth in service requests during the year from paid channels outpaced the growth in free requests as a result of the increase in online marketing. Also contributing to the increase in selling and marketing expense is an increase in compensation and other employee-related costs, due in part, to the expansion of its sales force. The increase in general and administrative expense is primarily due to increases of $4.6 million and $1.8 million in compensation and other employee-related costs related to acquisitions and bad debt expense, respectively. Operating income decreased 44% to $13.4 million, primarily due to the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization described above, $5.0 million in amortization of non-cash marketing in 2009 and an increase of $1.2 million in amortization of intangibles, partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in non-cash compensation expense. Media & Other For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 Revenue increased 30% to $219.9 million reflecting the contribution from Notional and Electus, which were not in the full prior year period, and growth at Pronto, Shoebuy, CollegeHumor and Vimeo. Also impacting revenue is the inclusion in the current year of revenue associated with profit participations related to our interests in Reveille. Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $7.7 million to a loss of $12.0 million. Losses decreased due primarily to $10.1 million in cost savings related to certain businesses that have been sold or shutdown and $2.9 million in profit participations related to our interests in Reveille noted above, partially offset by Electus, which is not in the full prior year period, and increased operating expenses associated with The Daily Beast. Operating loss increased by $25.5 million to $47.5 million despite the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above, primarily due to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges related to Shoebuy of $28.0 million and $4.5 million, respectively. Also contributing to the increase in operating loss is an increase of $0.6 million in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charge noted above. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Revenue declined 7% to $168.8 million primarily reflecting the absence of revenue from ReserveAmerica in the current year period following its sale on January 31, 2009, partially offset by growth at Shoebuy and Connected Ventures. 40 Table of Contents Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $5.6 million to a loss of $19.7 million. Losses decreased due primarily to cost savings related to the shutdown or sale of certain businesses of $7.7 million, partially offset by increased operating expenses associated with The Daily Beast. Operating loss decreased by $22.1 million to $22.1 million primarily due to the decreased Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above and goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment charges of $11.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively, in 2008 related to Connected Ventures. Also contributing to the decrease in operating loss are decreases in amortization of intangibles, exclusive of the impairment charge noted above, and non-cash compensation expense of $2.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively. Corporate For the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $1.3 million to a loss of $64.2 million primarily due to lower depreciation and salary expense, partially offset by $5.3 million in transaction expenses in the current year related to the Liberty Exchange. Operating loss increased $13.6 million to $147.3 million despite the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization loss due to an increase of $14.9 million in non-cash compensation expense. The increase in non-cash compensation expense is primarily related to an increase in expense attributable to awards granted subsequent to the second quarter of 2009, partially offset by awards having become fully vested. For the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008 Operating Income Before Amortization loss decreased by $55.5 million to a loss of $65.5 million primarily due to the inclusion in 2008 of $42.0 million in expenses related to the Spin-Off. The current year also benefited from lower compensation and other employee-related costs. Operating loss decreased $71.9 million to a loss of $133.7 million reflecting the decrease in Operating Income Before Amortization loss described above and a decrease of $16.4 million in non-cash compensation expense. The decrease in non-cash compensation expense reflects the acceleration and modification of certain equity awards associated with the Spin-Off in 2008. 41 Table of Contents FINANCIAL POSITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2010, the Company had $742.1 million of cash and cash equivalents, $564.0 million of marketable securities and $95.8 million in long-term debt. Long-term debt consists of $80.0 million in Liberty Bonds due September 1, 2035 and $15.8 million in Senior Notes. During 2010 and 2009, the Company purchased 23.1 million and 32.1 million shares of IAC common stock for aggregate consideration, on a trade date basis, of $530.9 million and $554.2 million, respectively. In addition on December 1, 2010, the Company completed the tax-free exchange of Evite, Gifts.com, IAC Advertising Solutions and $217.9 million in cash for substantially all of Liberty's equity stake in IAC, representing 8.5 million shares of Class B common stock and 4.3 million shares of IAC common stock. On February 26, 2010, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of IAC common stock. At January 28, 2011, IAC had approximately 7.2 million shares remaining in its share repurchase authorization. IAC may purchase shares over an indefinite period of time, depending on those factors IAC management deems relevant at any particular time, including, without limitation, market conditions, share price and future outlook. Net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations was $340.7 million and $348.5 million in 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease of $7.8 million in net cash provided by operating activities attributable to continuing operations is primarily due to the payment of the 2009 cash bonuses in 2010, whereas the 2008 cash bonuses were paid in the fourth quarter of 2008, and lower net income tax refunds in 2010. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2010 of $118.1 million includes $74.8 million related to the net purchases, sales and maturities of marketable debt securities, capital expenditures of $39.8 million and acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $17.3 million, partially offset by the dividend received from Meetic of $11.4 million and proceeds of $5.3 million from the sale of the Company's remaining shares of OpenTable. Net cash used in investing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2009 of $422.6 million includes $356.7 million related to the net purchases, sales and maturities of marketable debt securities, acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $85.5 million and capital expenditures of $33.9 million, partially offset by the proceeds of $64.0 million from the sales of long-term investments, primarily the sale of 2.0 million common shares of OpenTable. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2010 of $717.2 million includes the purchase of treasury stock of $539.6 million and $217.9 million in cash as part of the Liberty Exchange, partially offset by proceeds related to the issuance of common stock, net of withholding taxes, of $25.9 million and the excess tax benefits from stock-based awards of $14.3 million. Net cash used in financing activities attributable to continuing operations in 2009 of $405.8 million includes the purchase of treasury stock of $545.5 million and the settlement of vested stock-based awards denominated in a subsidiary's equity of $14.3 million, partially offset by the proceeds related to the issuance of common stock, net of withholding taxes, of $151.9 million. Included in the proceeds related to the issuance of common stock are aggregate proceeds of $150.9 million from the exercise of warrants to acquire 11.5 million shares of IAC common stock that were due to expire on February 4, 2009. The strike price of the warrants was $13.09 per share. IAC anticipates that it will need to make capital and other expenditures in connection with the development and expansion of its operations. The Company may make a number of acquisitions which could result in the reduction of its cash and/or marketable securities balance or the incurrence of debt. IAC expects that 2011 capital expenditures will be slightly less than 2010. IAC believes that its cash on hand along with its anticipated operating cash flows in 2011 and its access to capital markets are sufficient to fund its operating needs, capital, investing and other commitments and contingencies for the foreseeable future. 42 Table of Contents CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS Long-term debt(b) $ 198,617 $ 5,109 $ 25,508 $ 8,000 $ 160,000 Purchase obligations(c) 68,457 16,243 31,877 20,337 Operating leases 289,149 20,474 36,350 25,323 207,002 Total contractual cash obligations $ 556,223 $ 41,826 $ 93,735 $ 53,660 $ 367,002 (a) At December 31, 2010, the Company has recorded $487.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits which includes accrued interest of $97.7 million. This amount includes $310.0 million for unrecognized tax benefits and related interest that could result in future net cash payments to taxing authorities. The Company cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the expected period of cash settlement of these items. (b) Represents contractual amounts due, including interest. (c) The purchase obligations primarily include advertising commitments, which commitments are reducible or terminable such that these commitments can never exceed associated revenue by a meaningful amount. Purchase obligations also include minimum payments due under telecommunication contracts related to data transmission lines. Letters of credit and surety bond $ 9,510 $ 9,374 $ 136 $ $ * Commercial commitments are funding commitments that could potentially require registrant performance in the event of demands by third parties or contingent events, such as under lines of credit extended. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the items described above, the Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2010. 43 Table of Contents IAC'S PRINCIPLES OF FINANCIAL REPORTING IAC reports Operating Income Before Amortization as a supplemental measure to generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). This measure is one of the primary metrics by which we evaluate the performance of our businesses, on which our internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. We believe that investors should have access to, and we are obligated to provide, the same set of tools that we use in analyzing our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. IAC endeavors to compensate for the limitations of the non-GAAP measure presented by providing the comparable GAAP measure with equal or greater prominence, financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, and descriptions of the reconciling items, including quantifying such items, to derive the non-GAAP measure. We encourage investors to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measure which we discuss below. Definition of IAC's Non-GAAP Measure Operating Income Before Amortization is defined as operating income excluding, if applicable: (1) non-cash compensation expense, (2) amortization of non-cash marketing, (3) amortization and impairment of intangibles, (4) goodwill impairment, (5) pro forma adjustments for significant acquisitions, and (6) one-time items. We believe this measure is useful to investors because it represents the consolidated operating results from IAC's segments, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of any other non-cash expenses. Operating Income Before Amortization has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to IAC's statement of operations of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash marketing, and acquisition-related accounting. Pro Forma Results We will only present Operating Income Before Amortization on a pro forma basis if we view a particular transaction as significant in size or transformational in nature. For the periods presented in this report, there are no transactions that we have included on a pro forma basis. One-Time Items Operating Income Before Amortization is presented before one-time items, if applicable. These items are truly one-time in nature and non-recurring, infrequent or unusual, and have not occurred in the past two years or are not expected to recur in the next two years, in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission rules. For the periods presented in this report, there are no one-time items. Non-Cash Expenses That Are Excluded From IAC's Non-GAAP Measure Non-cash compensation expense consists principally of expense associated with the grants, including unvested grants assumed in acquisitions, of stock options, restricted stock units and restricted stock. These expenses are not paid in cash, and we include the related shares in our fully diluted shares outstanding which, for stock options and restricted stock units, are included on a treasury method basis. Upon the exercise of certain stock options and vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock, the awards are settled, at the Company's discretion, on a net basis, with the Company remitting the required tax withholding amount from its current funds. Amortization of non-cash marketing consists of non-cash advertising credits secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which VUE was created, and the subsequent transaction by which IAC sold its partnership interests in VUE (collectively referred to as "NBC Universal Advertising"). The NBC Universal Advertising was available for television advertising on 44 Table of Contents various NBC Universal network and cable channels without any cash cost. There are no NBC Universal Advertising credits available as all credits were used prior to December 31, 2009. The NBC Universal Advertising is excluded from Operating Income Before Amortization because it is non-cash and generally is incremental to the advertising the Company otherwise secures as a result of its ordinary cost/benefit marketing planning process. Accordingly, the Company's aggregate level of advertising, and the increased concentration of that advertising on NBC Universal network and cable channels, does not reflect what our advertising effort would otherwise be without these credits. As a result, management believes that treating the NBC Universal Advertising as an expense does not appropriately reflect its true cost/benefit relationship, nor does it best reflect the Company's long-term level of advertising expenditures. Nonetheless, while the benefits directly attributable to television advertising are always difficult to determine, and especially so with respect to the NBC Universal Advertising due to its incrementality and heavy concentration, it is likely that the Company does derive benefits from it, though management believes such benefits are generally less than those received through its regular advertising for the reasons stated above. Operating Income Before Amortization therefore has the limitation of including those benefits while excluding the associated expense. Amortization of intangibles (including impairment of intangibles, if applicable) and goodwill impairment (if applicable) are non-cash expenses relating to acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the identifiable definite-lived intangible assets of the acquired company, such as customer lists, technology and supplier agreements, are valued and amortized over their estimated lives. Value is also assigned to acquired indefinite-lived intangible assets, which comprise trade names and trademarks, and goodwill that are not subject to amortization. An impairment is recorded when the carrying value of an intangible asset or goodwill exceeds its fair value. While it is likely that we will have intangible amortization expense as we continue to acquire companies, we believe that intangible assets represent costs incurred by the acquired company to build value prior to acquisition and the related amortization and impairment charges of intangible assets or goodwill, if applicable, are not ongoing costs of doing business. RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING INCOME BEFORE AMORTIZATION For a reconciliation of Operating Income Before Amortization to operating income (loss) by business and to net earnings (loss) attributable to IAC shareholders in total for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. 45 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following disclosure is provided to supplement the descriptions of IAC's accounting policies contained in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in regard to significant areas of judgment. Management of the Company is required to make certain estimates and assumptions during the preparation of its consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. These estimates and assumptions impact the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Because of the size of the financial statement elements to which they relate, some of our accounting policies and estimates have a more significant impact on our consolidated financial statements than others. What follows is a discussion of some of our more significant accounting policies and estimates. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, which consist of the Company's acquired trade names and trademarks, are tested annually for impairment as of October 1 or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. The annual assessments identified impairment charges in 2010 related to the Shoebuy and IAC Search & Media reporting units and in 2009 related to the IAC Search & Media reporting unit. These impairment charges are more fully described above in "Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008". The value of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that is subject to annual assessment for impairment is $989.5 million and $237.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Goodwill impairment is determined using a two-step process. The first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of each of the Company's reporting units to its carrying value, including goodwill. In performing the first step, the Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit using a discounted cash flow ("DCF") analysis. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgment about the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and appropriate discount rates. The expected cash flows used in the DCF analyses are based on the Company's most recent budget and, for years beyond the budget, the Company's estimates, which are based, in part, on forecasted growth rates. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows of the respective reporting units. Assumptions used in the DCF analyses, including the discount rate, are assessed annually based on the reporting units' current results and forecast, as well as macroeconomic and industry specific factors. The discount rates used in the Company's annual goodwill impairment assessment ranged from 13% to 20% in both 2010 and 2009. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its carrying value to measure the amount of impairment, if any. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In other words, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. If the carrying value of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. If the carrying value of the intangible asset 46 Table of Contents exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. The estimates of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined using an avoided royalty DCF valuation analysis. Significant judgments inherent in this analysis include the selection of appropriate royalty and discount rates and estimating the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The discount rates used in the DCF analyses are intended to reflect the risks inherent in the expected future cash flows generated by the respective intangible assets. The royalty rates used in the DCF analyses are based upon an estimate of the royalty rates that a market participant would pay to license the Company's trade names and trademarks. Assumptions used in the avoided royalty DCF analyses, including the discount rate and royalty rate, are assessed annually based on the actual and projected cash flows related to the asset, as well as macroeconomic and industry specific factors. The discount rates used in the Company's annual indefinite-lived impairment assessment ranged from 13% to 20% in both 2010 and 2009, and the royalty rates used ranged from 1% to 10% in both 2010 and 2009. The Company has six reporting units with goodwill. Of these, IAC Search & Media and Shoebuy have fair values closest to their carrying values. The amount of goodwill of each of these reporting units is $534.0 million and $21.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. To illustrate the magnitude of potential impairment charges related to potential future changes in estimated fair values, had the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units been hypothetically lower by 10% as of October 1, 2010, their estimated fair values would exceed their carrying values. Had the estimated fair values of each of these reporting units been hypothetically lower by 20% as of October 1, 2010, the carrying values of IAC Search & Media and Shoebuy would have exceeded their fair values by approximately $9 million and $3 million, respectively. If operating results of these businesses vary significantly from anticipated results, future, and in the case of IAC Search & Media, potentially material, impairments of goodwill and/or indefinite-lived intangible assets could occur. Any impairment charge that might result in the future would be determined based upon the excess of the carrying value of goodwill over its implied fair value using the second step of the impairment analysis that is described above but, in any event, would not be expected to be lower than the excess of the carrying value of the reporting unit over its fair value. The primary driver in the DCF valuation analyses and the determination of the fair values of the Company's reporting units is the estimate of future revenue and profitability. Generally, the Company would expect to record an impairment if forecasted revenue and profitability are no longer expected to be achieved and as a result, the carrying value of a reporting unit(s) exceeds its fair value. This assessment would be based, in part, upon the performance of its businesses relative to budget, the Company's assessment of macroeconomic factors, industry and competitive dynamics and the strategies of its businesses in response to these factors. Recoverability of Long-Lived Assets We review the carrying value of all long-lived assets, comprising property and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. The carrying value of a long-lived asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset. If the carrying value is deemed not to be recoverable, an impairment loss is recorded equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. During 2010, the Company did not record any impairment charges related to definite-lived intangible assets. During 2009, the Company recorded an impairment charge related to the definite-lived intangible assets of IAC Search & Media. The definite-lived intangible asset impairment charge primarily related to certain technology and advertiser relationships, the carrying values of which were no longer considered recoverable based upon an assessment of future cash flows related to these assets. Accordingly, these assets were written down to fair value in 2009. The value of long-lived assets that is subject to assessment for impairment is $276.0 million at December 31, 2010. 47 Table of Contents Marketable Securities The Company invests in certain marketable securities, which consist primarily of short-to-intermediate-term debt securities issued by the U.S. government, U.S. government agencies, states of the U.S. and subdivisions thereof and investment grade corporate issuers. The unrealized gains and losses on marketable securities, net of tax, are included in accumulated other comprehensive income as a separate component of shareholders' equity. The specific-identification method is used to determine the cost of a security sold or the amount of unrealized gains and losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income into earnings. The Company employs a methodology that considers available evidence in evaluating potential impairment of its investments. Investments are considered to be impaired when a decline in fair value below the amortized cost basis is determined to be other-than-temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is other-than-temporary include the length of time and extent to which fair value has been less than the amortized cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, and whether it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before the recovery of the amortized cost basis, which may be maturity. If a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in current earnings and a new cost basis in the investment is established. Future events may result in reconsideration of the nature of losses as other-than-temporary and market and other factors may cause the value of the Company's investment in marketable securities to decline. During 2010, the Company did not consider any of its marketable securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired. During 2009, the Company sold its 5.5 million shares of ARO stock, resulting in aggregate losses of $12.3 million. Prior to the sale of its last 1.1 million shares of ARO stock, the Company concluded that the decline in the stock price of these remaining shares was other-than-temporary, due in part, to ARO's insolvency filing on June 9, 2009, and recorded impairment charges totaling $4.6 million. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding receivables and provide allowances when it is assessed that all or a portion of the receivable will not be collected. The Company determines its allowance by considering a number of factors, including the length of time accounts receivable are past due, the Company's previous loss history, the specific customer's ability to pay its obligation to the Company, and the condition of the general economy and the customer's industry. The Company writes off accounts receivable when they become uncollectible. The Company also maintains allowances to reserve for potential credits issued to customers or other revenue adjustments. The amount of these reserves are based, in part, on historical experience. As of December 31, 2010, the Company's allowance for doubtful accounts is $8.8 million. Income Taxes Estimates of deferred income taxes and the significant items giving rise to the deferred assets and liabilities are shown in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, and reflect management's assessment of actual future taxes to be paid on items reflected in the consolidated financial statements, giving consideration to both timing and the probability of realization. As of December 31, 2010, the balance of deferred tax assets, net, is $146.2 million. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, state income tax apportionment or the outcome of any review of our tax returns by the IRS, as well as actual operating results of the Company that vary significantly from anticipated results. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on the two-step process. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount which is more than 50% likely of being realized upon 48 Table of Contents ultimate settlement. This measurement step is inherently difficult and requires subjective estimations of such amounts to determine the probability of various possible outcomes. We consider many factors when evaluating and estimating our tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. Stock Based Compensation As disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the Company estimated the fair value of stock options issued in 2010, 2009 and 2008 using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: risk-free interest rates of 2.4%, 2.1% and 2.6%, respectively, a dividend yield of zero and volatility factors of 30%, 59% and 47%, respectively, based on the historical stock price volatilities of IAC for 2010 and peer companies operating in the same industry sector as IAC for 2009 and 2008 and a weighted average expected term of the stock options of 5.6 years, 4.9 years and 4.4 years, respectively. The historical stock price volatilities in 2009 and 2008 of peer companies was used due to the lack of sufficient historical IAC stock price volatilities subsequent to the Spin-Off. For stock options, including unvested stock options assumed in acquisitions, the value of the stock option is measured at the grant date (or acquisition date, if applicable) at fair value and expensed over the remaining vesting term. The impact on non-cash compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2010, assuming a 1% increase in the risk-free interest rate, a 10% increase in the volatility factor, and a one year increase in the weighted average expected term of the outstanding options would be an increase of $1.5 million, $7.7 million, and $5.0 million, respectively. The Company also issues restricted stock units and performance stock units. For restricted stock units issued, the value of the instrument is measured at the grant date as the fair value of IAC common stock and expensed as non-cash compensation expense over the vesting term. For performance stock units issued, the value of the instrument is measured at the grant date as the fair value of IAC common stock and expensed as non-cash compensation over the vesting term when the performance targets are considered probable of being achieved. 49 Table of Contents