Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 387,832 $ 300,360 $ 133,112 $ 119,646 $ 97,728 Cost of net revenue 157,842 144,937 51,154 46,683 37,082 Gross profit 229,990 155,423 81,958 72,963 60,646 Operating expenses: Research and development 97,745 85,405 56,625 53,132 46,458 Selling, general and administrative 64,454 77,981 34,191 32,181 27,254 IPR&D impairment losses 1,300 21,600 Restructuring charges 3,432 14,086 Total operating expenses 166,931 199,072 90,816 85,313 73,712 Income (loss) from operations 63,059 (43,649 ) (8,858 ) (12,350 ) (13,066 ) Interest income 572 275 236 222 282 Other income (expense), net 59 468 (123 ) (203 ) (127 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 63,690 (42,906 ) (8,745 ) (12,331 ) (12,911 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2,398 (575 ) (1,704 ) 402 341 Net income (loss) $ 61,292 $ (42,331 ) $ (7,041 ) $ (12,733 ) $ (13,252 ) Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.96 $ (0.79 ) $ (0.19 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.40 ) Diluted $ 0.91 $ (0.79 ) $ (0.19 ) $ (0.37 ) $ (0.40 ) Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 63,781 53,378 36,472 34,012 33,198 Diluted 67,653 53,378 36,472 34,012 33,198 As of December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents and short- and long-term investments, available-for-sale $ 136,805 $ 130,498 $ 79,351 $ 86,354 $ 77,256 Working capital 159,500 134,170 67,668 56,558 68,450 Total assets 422,652 334,505 135,711 124,929 110,597 Total stockholders equity 352,424 262,924 99,102 86,674 80,233 42 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio frequency, or RF, and mixed-signal integrated circuits for cable and satellite broadband communications and the connected home, and wired and wireless infrastructure markets. Our high performance RF receiver products capture and process digital and analog broadband signals to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip, or SoCs, which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to receive and demodulate broadband signals, and physical medium devices that provide a constant current source, current-to-voltage regulation, and data alignment and retiming functionality in optical interconnect applications. Through our acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc., or Entropic, in April of 2015, we provide semiconductor solutions for the connected home, ranging from MoCA (Multimedia over Coax Alliance) solutions that transform how traditional HDTV broadcast and Internet Protocol, or IP, based streaming video content is seamlessly, reliably, and securely delivered, processed, and distributed into and throughout the home. Through our acquisition of the Microsemi wireless infrastructure access business in April of 2016, we provide integrated circuits for wireless infrastructure markets, including wideband RF transceivers and synthesizers for 3G, 4G, and future 5G cellular base station and remote radio head (RRH) unit platforms. Through our recently closed acquisition of the Broadcom wireless infrastructure backhaul business in July of 2016, we also provide modem and RF transceiver solutions into cellular infrastructure backhaul applications. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $387.8 million in fiscal 2016 . In fiscal 2016 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and MoCA connectivity solutions into operator voice and data modems and gateways and global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital television applications. These analog and digital television applications include Direct Broadcast Satellite outdoor unit, or DBS ODU, solutions, which consist of our translation switch, or BTS, and channel stacking switch, or CSS, products. These products simplify the installation required to support simultaneous reception of multiple channels from multiple satellites over a single cable. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the Cable infrastructure market, and manufacturers of optical module and telecommunications infrastructure equipment. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 93% , 91% and 94% of net revenue during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. There is a growing portion of our business, related specifically to our high-speed optical interconnect products, that are shipped to, and are ultimately consumed in Asian markets, with the majority of these products being purchased by end customers in China. 43 Table of Contents A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the year ended December 31, 2016 , two of our customers, Arris and Technicolor (which includes Cisco's former connected devices business), accounted for 37% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 74% of our net revenue. Sales to Arris as a percentage of revenue include sales to Pace, which was acquired by Arris in January 2016, for the year ended December 31, 2016 . In the year ended December 31, 2015 , two of our customers, Arris and Technicolor (which includes Cisco's former connected devices business), accounted for 41% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 76% of our net revenue. In November 2015, Technicolor completed its purchase of Ciscos connected devices business. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , the revenue percentage did not include the 1% revenue percentage for Technicolor. In the year ended December 31, 2014 , one of our customers, Arris, accounted for 31% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 67% of our net revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2014, sales to Arris as a percentage of revenue include sales to Motorola Home, which was acquired by Arris in April 2013. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems and both cable and satellite cable set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the satellite operator gateway and DBS ODU sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. On April 30, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Entropic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement or merger agreements dated as of February 3, 2015, by and among MaxLinear, Entropic, and two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, all of the Entropic outstanding shares were converted into the right to receive consideration consisting of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. We paid an aggregate of $111.1 million in cash and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock to the stockholders of Entropic. In addition, we assumed all outstanding Entropic stock options and unvested restricted stock units that were held by continuing service providers (as defined in the merger agreement). The Company used Entropics cash and cash equivalents to fund a significant portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration and, to a lesser extent, our own cash and cash equivalents. Recent Developments On April 28, 2016, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc., formerly known as PMC-Sierra, Inc., or Microsemi, and consummated the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement. We paid cash consideration of $21.0 million for the purchase of certain wireless access assets of Microsemi's wireless infrastructure access business, and assumed certain specified liabilities. The assets acquired include, among other things, radio frequency and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation RF transceiver designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property, plant, and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees of the wireless infrastructure access business that were rehired by the Company. On May 9, 2016, we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business of Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom. On July 1, 2016, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the purchase agreement and paid aggregate cash consideration of $80.0 million and hired certain employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business. The assets acquired include, among other things, digital baseband, radio frequency, or RF, and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation digital baseband and RF transceiver integrated circuit and reference platform designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations, liabilities for technologies acquired, and a payable to Broadcom as reimbursement of costs associated with the 44 Table of Contents termination of those employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business who were not hired by MaxLinear upon the closing of the acquisition. For more information, please refer to Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements. The acquired assets and liabilities, together with the rehired employees for each of these acquisitions, represent businesses as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations . We have integrated the acquired assets and rehired employees into our existing business. On March 29, 2017, each share of our then outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock will convert automatically into a single class of common stock pursuant to the terms of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share with respect to transactions that would result in a change of control of the Company or that relate to our equity incentive plans. In addition, holders of Class B common stock have the exclusive right to elect two members of our Board of Directors, each referred to as a Class B Director. Following the conversion, each share of common stock will be entitled to one vote per share and otherwise have the same designations, rights, powers and preferences as the Class A common stock prior to the conversion. In addition, holders of the common stock will vote as a single class of stock on any matter that is submitted to a vote of stockholders. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenue is generated from sales of our integrated circuits. We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable and 4) collectability is reasonably assured. Title to product transfers to customers either when it is shipped to or received by the customer, based on the terms of the specific agreement with the customer. Revenue is recorded based on the facts at the time of sale. Transactions for which we cannot reliably estimate the amount that will ultimately be collected at the time the product has shipped and title has transferred to the customer are deferred until the amount that is probable of collection can be determined. Items that are considered when determining the amounts that will be ultimately collected are a customers overall creditworthiness and payment history, customer rights to return unsold product, customer rights to price protection, customer payment terms conditioned on sale or use of product by the customer, or extended payment terms granted to a customer. A portion of our revenues are generated from sales made through distributors under agreements allowing for pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights of return. Revenues from sales through our distributors accounted for 19% , 13% and 28% of net revenue during the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Pricing credits to our distributors may result from our price protection and unit rebate provisions, among other factors. These pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights prevent us from being able to reliably estimate the final sales price of the inventory sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, for sales through distributors, we have determined that it does not meet all of the required revenue recognition criteria at the time we deliver our products to distributors as the final sales price is not fixed or determinable. For these distributor transactions, revenue is not recognized until product is shipped to the end customer and the amount that will ultimately be collected is fixed or determinable. Upon shipment of product to these distributors, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor and the distributor is invoiced, generally with 30 to 60 day terms. On shipments to our distributors where revenue is not recognized, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieving the inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the corresponding gross profit in our consolidated balance sheet as a component of deferred revenue and deferred profit, 45 Table of Contents representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the cost of inventory shipped. Future pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights from our distributors may result in the realization of a different amount of profit included in our future consolidated statements of operations than the amount recorded as deferred profit in our consolidated balance sheets. We record reductions in revenue for estimated pricing adjustments related to price protection agreements with our end customers in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. Price protection pricing adjustments are recorded at the time of sale as a reduction to revenue and an increase in our accrued liabilities. The amount of these reductions is based on specific criteria included in the agreements and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential price protection adjustments at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We de-recognize the accrual for unclaimed price protection amounts as specific programs contractually end or when we believe unclaimed amounts are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. See Note 7 for a summary of our price protection activity. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and assess each customers credit worthiness. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience, our anticipation of uncollectible accounts receivable and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While our credit losses have historically been insignificant, we may experience higher credit loss rates in the future than we have in the past. Our receivables are concentrated in relatively few customers. Therefore, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any one significant customer could make collection of our accounts receivable more difficult, require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and negatively affect our working capital. Inventory Valuation We assess the recoverability of our inventory based on assumptions about demand and market conditions. Forecasted demand is determined based on historical sales and expected future sales. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis and market reflects current replacement cost (e.g. net replacement value) which cannot exceed net realizable value or fall below net realizable value less an allowance for an approximately normal profit margin. We reduce our inventory to its lower of cost or market on a part-by-part basis to account for its obsolescence or lack of marketability. Reductions are calculated as the difference between the cost of inventory and its market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. Once established, these adjustments are considered permanent and are not revised until the related inventory is sold or disposed of. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required that may adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross profits when products are sold. Production Masks Production masks with alternative future uses or discernible future benefits are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life of two years. To determine if the production mask has alternative future uses or benefits, we evaluate risks associated with developing new technologies and capabilities, and the related risks associated with entering new markets. Production masks that do not meet the criteria for capitalization are expensed as research and development costs. Business Combinations We apply the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations , in the accounting for our acquisitions. ASC 805 requires us to recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, at the acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the consolidated statements of operations. 46 Table of Contents Costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company or our internal operations are accounted for as termination and exit costs pursuant to ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations , and are accounted for separately from the business combination. A liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the fair value of facility restructuring activities, assumptions are applied regarding estimated sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. This may require us to revise our initial estimates which may materially affect the results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made. For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies as of the acquisition date and may extend our review and evaluation of these pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period in order to obtain sufficient information to assess whether we include these contingencies as a part of the fair value estimates of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and, if so, to determine their estimated amounts. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, which is generally the case given the nature of such matters, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on results of operations and financial position. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to the preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill if identified within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or final determination of the tax allowances or contingencys estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances will affect the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is recorded as the difference, if any, between the aggregate consideration paid for an acquisition and the fair value of the acquired net tangible and intangible assets. Intangible assets represent purchased intangible assets including developed technology and in-process research and development, or IPR&D, and technologies acquired or licensed from other companies, customer relationships, backlog and tradenames. Purchased intangible assets with definitive lives are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life. Technologies acquired or licensed from other companies, customer relationships, backlog and tradenames are capitalized and amortized over the greater of the terms of the agreement, or estimated useful life. We capitalize IPR&D projects acquired as part of a business combination. On completion of each project, IPR&D assets are reclassified to developed technology and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for under the acquisition method. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment using a qualitative assessment, and subsequently the two-step method as needed. This involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, which we have determined to be the entity itself, with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying amount, the goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We test by reporting unit, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at October 31 each year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. During development, IPR&D is not subject to amortization and is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets each year for impairment using a qualitative assessment, followed by a quantitative assessment, as needed, each year as of October 31, the date of our annual goodwill impairment review, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value. Once an IPR&D project is complete, it becomes a finite-lived intangible asset and is evaluated for impairment in accordance with our policy for long-lived assets. We regularly review the carrying amount of our long-lived assets, as well as the useful lives, to determine whether indicators of impairment may exist which warrant adjustments to carrying values or estimated useful lives. An impairment loss 47 Table of Contents would be recognized when the sum of the expected future undiscounted net cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Should impairment exist, the impairment loss would be measured based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the assets fair value. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are presented net as noncurrent. The provision for income taxes generally represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from the differences between the financial and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when a judgment is made that is considered more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A decision to record a valuation allowance results in an increase in income tax expense or a decrease in income tax benefit. If the valuation allowance is released in a future period, income tax expense will be reduced accordingly. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. The impact of an uncertain income tax position is recognized at the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. Any adjustment to the net deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded in the income statement for the period that the adjustment is determined to be required. Stock-Based Compensation We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity incentive awards, including stock options, employee stock purchase rights, restricted stock units and restricted stock awards based on the grant date fair value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase rights granted to employees. We calculate the fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock awards based on the fair market value of our Class A common stock on the grant date. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method and classify these amounts in the statements of operations based on the department to which the related employee reports. We calculate the weighted-average expected life of options using the simplified method as prescribed by guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This decision was based on the lack of historical data due to our limited number of stock option exercises under the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. We will continue to assess the appropriateness of the use of the simplified method as we develop a history of option exercises. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Adoption of the amendments in this guidance is expected to accelerate the timing of our revenue recognition on products sold via distributors which will change from the sell-through method to the sell-in method. We currently have no plans to alter our selling practices or terms of sales through distributors in anticipation of adoption of the amendments in this guidance. We have performed a preliminary assessment of the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations and believe the change would not have a material impact on our revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018 and comparative periods expected to be presented, based on the current volume and amount of distributor transactions. We plan to apply the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of adoption. 48 Table of Contents In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires inventory to be subsequently measured using the lower of cost and net realizable value, and thereby eliminating the market value approach. The FASB has defined net realizable value to be the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. ASU 2015-11 is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 and is applied prospectively. The adoption of the amendments in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In September 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-16, Business Combinations: Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments . To simplify the accounting for adjustments made to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination, the amendments in this update eliminate the requirement to retrospectively account for those adjustments and to revise comparative information for prior periods presented as a result of changes made to provisional amounts. Instead, those adjustments are recognized in the reporting period that the adjustments are determined. Those adjustments are required when new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the measurement of the amounts initially recognized or would have resulted in the recognition of additional assets or liabilities. The amendments in this update also require an entity to present separately on the face of the income statement or disclose in the notes the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, and were applied prospectively. The adoption of ASU No. 2015-16 in 2016 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . The amendments in this update include a requirement to measure equity investments (except equity method investments) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; previously changes in fair value were recognized in other comprehensive income. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) . The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the amendments in this update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations; however, adoption of the amendments in this update are expected to be material for most entities, including us, that have material leases greater than twelve months. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with the new revenue recognition standard. The adoption of the amendments in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation to simplify certain aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions associated with income taxes, classification as equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2017, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. Early adoption, if elected, must be completed for all of the amendments in the same period. The new guidance requires, among other things, excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded in the income statement in the provision for income taxes when awards vest or are 49 Table of Contents settled. Also, because excess tax benefits are no longer recognized in additional paid-in capital, the assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing earnings per share is amended to exclude the amount of excess tax benefits that would be recognized in additional paid-in capital. We adopted ASU No. 2016-09 during the quarter ended June 30, 2016, as previously described in our Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on August 8, 2016. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , the impact on the Company's results of operations was to reduce the provision for income taxes and increase net income by $8.3 million and increase basic net income per share by $0.13 , and increase diluted net income per share by $0.12 . The increase to diluted net income per share includes the effect of the reduction of the tax provision and an increase in the number of incremental shares used in computing diluted EPS by 846,000 shares for the year ended December 31, 2016 (Note 2). There was no cumulative effect on retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet since we have a full valuation allowance against U.S. deferred tax assets. We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures of share-based awards resulting in no impact to stock-based compensation expense, and we are also continuing to classify cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes in cash flows from financing activities. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments, including, among other things, contingent consideration payments made following a business combination and proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims in the statement of cash flows. Cash payments not made soon after the acquisition date up to the amount of the contingent consideration liability recognized at the acquisition date should be classified as financing activities, with any excess payments classified as operating activities, whereas cash payments made soon after the acquisition date to settle the contingent consideration should be classified as investing activities. Cash proceeds received from settlement of insurance claims should be classified on the basis of the nature of the related losses. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2017, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We do not expect the adoption of the amendments in this update to have a material impact on our consolidated statement of cash flows. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party. The Board decided that an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018. The impact of adoption of the amendments in this update could be material depending on the size of any intra-entity transfers we may implement in 2018 and future periods. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency and mixed-signal integrated circuits for cable and satellite broadband communications and the connected home, and wired and wireless infrastructure markets. A significant portion of our end customers purchases products indirectly from us through distributors. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, distributor and other third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. 50 Table of Contents Impairment Losses. Impairment losses are attributed to the impairment charges to intangible assets. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of employee severance and stock compensation expenses, and lease and leasehold impairment charges related to certain of our restructuring plans entered into as a result of our acquisition of Entropic and internal operations, and an adjustment related to restructuring plan implemented by Entropic prior to acquisition. Interest Income. Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense (benefit) for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Net revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 41 48 38 Gross profit 59 52 62 Operating expenses: Research and development 25 28 42 Selling, general and administrative 17 26 26 IPR&D impairment losses 7 Restructuring charges 1 5 Total operating expenses 43 66 68 Income (loss) from operations 16 (14 ) (6 ) Interest income Other income (expense), net Income (loss) before income taxes 16 (14 ) (6 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1 ) Net income (loss) 16 % (14 )% (5 )% Net Revenue Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Operator $ 293,313 $ 225,265 $ 101,393 30 % 122 % % of net revenue 75 % 75 % 76 % Infrastructure and other 60,568 29,585 31,719 105 % (7 )% % of net revenue 16 % 10 % 24 % Legacy video SoC 33,951 45,510 (25 )% N/A % of net revenue 9 % 15 % Total net revenue $ 387,832 $ 300,360 $ 133,112 29 % 126 % 51 Table of Contents Net revenue increased $87.5 million to $387.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $300.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The change was primarily due to an increase of $68.0 million in operator applications, related primarily to increased cable and satellite RF receivers, digital channel-stacking, and both satellite and cable MoCA product shipments. The increase in infrastructure and other revenues of $31.0 million were primarily driven by the continued ramp of high-speed interconnect product shipments as well as contributions from our wireless access acquisition starting in May 2016 and our wireless backhaul acquisition starting in July 2016. Shipments of legacy video SoC products declined by $11.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 . We expect year-over-year revenue declines in the legacy video SoC and analog channel stacking, or aCSS, products we acquired from Entropic to continue, as these products are near the end of their life cycles, which along with other factors, including but not limited to operator consolidation, could adversely affect future revenues for these product categories. Net revenue increased $167.2 million to $300.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to $133.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2014 . The increase in net revenue was primarily attributable to an increase of $123.9 million in operator applications, contributed primarily by analog channel-stacking and MoCA products related to our Entropic acquisition, as well as organic growth across each of our other operator sub-categories. Declines in infrastructure and other revenues of $2.1 million were primarily driven by hybrid-TV and consumer digital-to-analog terrestrial set-top box applications, which offset growth in retail MoCA products related to our Entropic acquisition and high-speed interconnect products related to our Physpeed acquisition. An increase of $45.5 million in our legacy video SoC products was attributable to our acquisition of Entropic. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 157,842 $ 144,937 $ 51,154 9 % 183 % % of net revenue 41 % 48 % 38 % Gross profit 229,990 155,423 81,958 48 % 90 % % of net revenue 59 % 52 % 62 % Cost of net revenue increased $12.9 million to $157.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $144.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase was primarily driven by an increase in sales and a $4.3 million increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets costs related to our wireless infrastructure access and backhaul acquisitions during 2016, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of inventory step-up of $8.6 million and reductions in our average manufacturing costs. The increase in gross profit percentage for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , was due to an increase in sales of higher margin products and the previously mentioned reduction in amortization of inventory step-up. Cost of net revenue increased $93.8 million to $144.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to $51.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . This increase was primarily driven by increased sales. The decrease in gross profit percentages for the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 , was primarily due to amortization of inventory step-up costs of $14.2 million and amortization of intellectual property costs of $4.2 million related to the Entropic acquisition, partially offset by reductions in our average manufacturing costs. The gross margin decline was also driven by the significant increase in Entropic-related product revenue, which has historically generated lower gross margin than our previous corporate average. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 97,745 $ 85,405 $ 56,625 14 % 51 % % of net revenue 25 % 28 % 43 % Research and development expense increased $12.3 million to $97.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 from $85.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to increases in headcount-related expense 52 Table of Contents and occupancy expense of $9.4 million related to our acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure access business from Microsemi, and the wireless infrastructure backhaul business from Broadcom. Year-on-year increases in prototype expense, design tools expense, and depreciation expense of $3.2 million were primarily due to a higher number of projects. Research and development expense increased $28.8 million to $85.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to $56.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in headcount-related items of $16.6 million, and the combined increases in design tools, prototype, compensation to employees in relation to the Physpeed transaction, amortization, travel, and occupancy expenses of $11.9 million. In 2015, headcount-related items increased primarily due to increases in our average full-time-equivalent headcount compared to prior year. The non-headcount related increases are primarily due to increased project related design tools usage. We expect our research and development expenses to increase as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 64,454 $ 77,981 $ 34,191 (17 )% 128 % % of net revenue 17 % 26 % 26 % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $13.5 million to $64.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $78.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $18.0 million in intangible amortization expense related to acquired product backlog and a decrease in legal expense of $3.0 million related to the Entropic acquisition in the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in headcount-related expense of $3.5 million due to higher average full-time-equivalent headcount compared to prior year as a result of the Entropic acquisition. Commission expense increased $1.0 million due to higher sales and outside services, accounting expense, travel expense, and other expenses increased by $2.9 million. Selling, general and administrative expense increased $43.8 million to $78.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , as compared to $34.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The increase was primarily due to the amortization of purchased intangible assets of $25.0 million and transaction costs of $5.4 million associated with our Entropic acquisition, an increase in headcount-related items (including stock-based compensation) of $5.1 million, and an increase in commission, outside services, professional fees, occupancy, and other expenses of $10.0 million while legal fees decreased $1.7 million. In 2015, headcount-related items increased primarily due to increases in our average full-time-equivalent headcount compared to prior year. The non-headcount related increases are primarily due our facilities expansion efforts. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets and continue to build our international administrative infrastructure. IPR&D Impairment Losses Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) IPR&D impairment losses $ 1,300 $ 21,600 $ (94)% N/A % of net revenue % 7 % % IPR&D impairment losses decreased $20.3 million to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to $21.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . We did not incur impairment losses in the year ended December 31, 2014 . IPR&D impairment losses in 2016 consisted of acquired IPR&D technology of the wireless infrastructure access business. IPR&D impairment losses in 2015 consisted of acquired IPR&D technology of Physpeed and Entropic. 53 Table of Contents Restructuring charges Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 3,432 $ 14,086 $ (76)% N/A % of net revenue 1 % 5 % % Restructuring charges decreased $10.7 million to $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to $14.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . We did not incur restructuring charges in the year ended December 31, 2014 . Restructuring charges in 2016 consisted of employee severance and stock compensation expenses of $1.0 million, lease and leasehold impairment charges of $2.3 million and contract restructuring of $0.1 million. Restructuring charges in 2015 consisted of employee severance and stock compensation expenses of $5.5 million, lease and leasehold impairment charges of $8.2 million and contract restructuring of $0.3 million. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 572 $ 275 $ 236 108 % 17 % Other income (expense), net 59 468 (123 ) (87 )% (480 )% Interest income increased $0.3 million to $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase was due to higher average cash and investment balances held during the year. The decrease in other income (expense), net was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions. Interest income increased $0.04 million to $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 from $0.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to higher average cash and investment balances held during the period. The increase in other income (expense), net was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Years Ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 2,398 $ (575 ) $ (1,704 ) (517 )% (66 )% The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $2.4 million or approximately 4% of pre-tax income compared to a benefit for income taxes of $0.6 million or approximately 1% of pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The benefit for income taxes in the year ended December 31, 2014 was $1.7 million or approximately 19% of pre-tax loss. The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily relates to federal alternative minimum tax due to our limitation on use of net operating losses, credit carryforwards, state income taxes, and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Certain significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter during which they occur and can be a source of variability in the effective tax rates from quarter to quarter. During the quarter ended June 30, 2016, we adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation , which resulted in the recognition of net excess tax benefits on share-based awards within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statement of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , the impact of including net excess tax benefits was to reduce the provision for income taxes by $8.3 million in the consolidated statement of operations. The benefit for income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 primarily relates to the release of valuation allowance in connection with the Entropic and Physpeed acquisitions in 2015 and 2014, respectively, partially offset by income taxes in foreign jurisdictions and accruals for tax contingencies. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset the federal, California and certain foreign deferred tax assets as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of 54 Table of Contents deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we concluded that a full valuation allowance should continue to be recorded against our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets at December 31, 2016 . We are closely assessing the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. If we continue to generate taxable income, we could remove some or all of the valuation allowance against federal, California and certain foreign deferred tax assets if we meet the more-likely-than-not threshold. The impact of releasing some or all of such valuation allowance will be material in the period in which such release occurs. Until such time that we remove the valuation allowance against our federal, California and certain foreign deferred tax assets, our provision for income taxes will primarily consist of federal and state current income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, we do not incur expense or benefit in certain tax free jurisdictions in which we operate. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $82.9 million , short- and long-term investments of $53.9 million , and net accounts receivable of $50.5 million . Additionally, as of December 31, 2016 , our working capital was $159.5 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory and the acquisition of businesses, property and equipment and intangible assets, and is impacted by the timing of when we pay these expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization of acquired intangible assets and step-ups of acquired inventory to fair value. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the growth in amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers. Following is a summary of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents for the periods indicated: December 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Working capital $ 159,500 $ 134,170 Cash and cash equivalents $ 82,896 $ 67,956 Short-term investments 47,918 43,300 Long-term investments 5,991 19,242 Total cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 136,805 $ 130,498 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 117,317 $ 55,041 $ 12,234 Net cash used in investing activities (101,313 ) (11,059 ) (17,466 ) Net cash provided by (used in) by financing activities (670 ) 4,003 (506 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (394 ) (725 ) (16 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 14,940 $ 47,260 $ (5,754 ) 55 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $117.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of net income of $61.3 million , $48.2 million in non-cash expenses, and $7.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $26.7 million , stock-based compensation of $21.8 million , amortization of step-up to fair value of acquired inventory of $5.6 million , impairment charges on intangible assets of $1.3 million , and impairment and restructuring on leases of $0.4 million , partially offset by excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $8.3 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $55.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of $103.1 million in non-cash operating expenses, partially offset by a net loss of $42.3 million and $5.7 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $40.6 million , impairment charges on intangible assets of $21.6 million , stock-based compensation of $19.3 million , amortization of step-up to fair value of acquired inventory of $14.2 million and impairment and restructuring on leases of $8.2 million , partially offset by deferred income taxes of $1.9 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $12.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of $18.6 million in non-cash operating expenses, partially offset by a net loss of $7.0 million and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $0.7 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily included stock-based compensation of $15.0 million , depreciation and amortization expense of $5.1 million , partially offset by deferred income taxes of $2.3 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $101.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $101.0 million used in our acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure access and backhaul businesses, $90.3 million in purchases of securities, and $ 8.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $98.9 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $11.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $73.4 million in purchases of securities, $3.6 million cash used in our acquisition of Entropic, and $3.0 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $69.0 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $17.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $56.7 million in purchases of securities, $9.1 million used in our acquisition of Physpeed, and $8.8 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $57.2 million in maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $7.3 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by $6.6 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. Net cash provided by financing activities was $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted primarily of $10.0 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by $5.1 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Net cash used in financing activities consisted of $3.8 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by $3.3 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. 56 Table of Contents We believe that our $82.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and $53.9 million in short- and long-term investments at December 31, 2016 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. In 2016, we used $101.0 million of cash to purchase the wireless infrastructure access and backhaul businesses of Microsemi and Broadcom, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in August 2016, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the January 1, 2016 to June 30, 2016 performance period under our bonus plan. In May 2016, we issued 0.2 million shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the July 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 performance period. In August 2015, we issued 0.3 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the January 1, 2015 to June 30, 2015 performance period under our bonus plan. In May 2015, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the fiscal 2014 performance period under our bonus plan. In May 2014, we issued 0.6 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the fiscal 2013 performance period under our bonus plan. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for the second half of fiscal 2016, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to continue to fund our operations in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of December 31, 2016 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2016 , future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases, other obligations and inventory purchase obligations are as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 35,601 $ 8,123 $ 13,229 $ 12,657 $ 1,592 Inventory purchase obligations 30,464 30,464 Other obligations 5,863 4,939 924 Total $ 71,928 $ 43,526 $ 14,153 $ 12,657 $ 1,592 57 Table of Contents