ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the sections titled Business and Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. 53 Overview We are a provider of communications systems-on-chip, or SoC, solutions used in broadband, mobile and wireline infrastructure, data center, and industrial and multi-market applications. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a high-speed communication system, including radio frequency, or RF, high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, security engines, data compression and networking layers, and power management. In most cases, these products are designed on a single silicon-die, using standard digital complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, processes and conventional packaging technologies. We believe this approach enables our solutions to achieve superior power, performance, and cost relative to our industry competition. Our customers include electronics distributors, module makers, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, who incorporate our products in a wide range of electronic devices. Examples of such devices include cable Data Over Cable Service Interface Specifications, or DOCSIS, fiber and DSL broadband modems and gateways; Wi-Fi and wireline routers for home networking; radio transceivers and modems for 4G/5G base-station and backhaul infrastructure; fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport networks; as well as power management and interface products used in these and many other markets. Our highly integrated semiconductor devices and platform-level solutions are primarily manufactured using low-cost CMOS process technology. CMOS processes are ideally suited for large digital logic implementations targeting high-volume and low-cost consumer applications. Importantly, our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog functionality and complex digital signal processing logic in the same integrated circuit. As a result, our solutions have exceptional levels of functional integration and performance, low manufacturing cost, and reduced power consumption. In addition, our proprietary CMOS-based radio and digital system architectures also enable shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility and low system-level cost across a wide range of broadband communications, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market customer applications. In the year ended December 31, 2022, net revenue was $1.1 billion, which was derived in part from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver SoC and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; changes in government trade policies; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 82%, 83% and 82% of net revenue during the years ended 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, including 43%, 40% and 42%, respectively, from products shipped to Hong Kong and 16%, 12% and 17%, respectively, from products shipped to mainland China and 13% from products shipped to Vietnam in 2021. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, revenue generated from sales of our products during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. Sales to customers comprise both direct sales to customers and indirect sales through distributors. In the year ended December 31, 2022, our top two customers accounted for 31% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 65% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers accounted for 18% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2021, two of our customers accounted for 26% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 69% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers comprised 27% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2020, two of our direct customers accounted for 28% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 68% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers comprised 41% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop integrated circuits for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will 54 vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. Impact of the Global Economic Downturn Inflation, and uncertainty in customer demand and the worldwide economy has continued, and we may experience continued volatility in our sales and revenues in the near future. In particular, we believe an economic downturn and inventory oversupply due to changes in customer demand will add to volatility in managing the business. In addition, inventory oversupply could also lead to inventory write-downs, including charges for any excess or obsolete inventory which could negatively impact our gross margins. However, the magnitude of such volatility on our business and its duration is uncertain and cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. Recent Developments Silicon Motion Merger On May 5, 2022, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Silicon Motion Technology Corporation, or Silicon Motion, an exempted company with limited liability incorporated under the Law of the Cayman Islands, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, we agreed to acquire Silicon Motion pursuant to a statutory merger of Shark Merger Sub, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear, with and into Silicon Motion, with Silicon Motion surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear. Silicon Motion is a provider of NAND flash controllers for solid state drives and other solid state storage devices. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, the transaction consideration will consist of $93.54 in cash and 0.388 shares of our stock for each Silicon Motion American Depositary Share, or ADS, and $23.385 in cash and 0.097 shares of our common stock for each Silicon Motion ordinary share not represented by an ADS. Upon closing of the transaction, our current stockholders will own approximately 86% of the combined company and former Silicon Motion securityholders will own approximately 14% of the combined company. Based on the closing price of our common shares on May 4, 2022, the implied value of the total transaction consideration for Silicon Motion is approximately $4.3 billion. We may fund up to $3.5 billion of cash consideration with cash on hand and fully committed debt financing from Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., or Wells Fargo Bank, and other lenders as described below. We will also assume Silicon Motions vested and unvested employee stock-based compensation awards. The merger is not subject to any financing conditions but is pending satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval in the Peoples Republic of China, or China. On June 27, 2022, the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, or HSR, waiting period expired with respect to the pending merger. On July 13, 2022, the Form S-4 was declared effective by the SEC. On August 31, 2022, the Silicon Motion securityholders approved the merger at the extraordinary general meeting. On June 17, 2022, we entered into an amended and restated commitment letter with Wells Fargo Bank and other lenders pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the lenders have committed to provide (i) a senior secured term B loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2.7375 billion (ii) a senior secured term A loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $512.5 million and (iii) a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $250.0 million, which we collectively refer to as the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. The funding of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities is contingent on the satisfaction of customary conditions, including (i) the execution and delivery of definitive documentation with respect to credit facilities in accordance with the terms in the amended and restated commitment letter, and (ii) the consummation of the acquisition by us of Silicon Motion in accordance with the Merger Agreement. A portion of the proceeds from the Senior Secured Credit Facilities will be used to repay existing debt in full. 55 Expanded U.S. Export Controls In October 2022, the Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, of the U.S. Commerce Department issued an interim final rule to implement additional export controls on advanced computing integrated circuits and related products. The primary impact of these rules is that we may be required to obtain a license to do business with certain customers, semiconductor foundries and outsource assembly and testing, or OSAT, facilities in China. The BIS rule also expanded the scope of foreign-produced items subject to license requirements when intended for certain entities located in China, and also added new entities in China to the EARs Unverified List. We are currently in the process of securing any licenses or other approvals that may be required as result of the October 2022 BIS rule. We may experience a temporary loss of revenues or supply while we are obtaining licenses needed to do business with certain customers and other partners recently added to the Entity List, and failure to obtain any required license could result in a reduction of anticipated revenues or supply until an alternate source of supply can be obtained. We have assessed the impact of the interim final rule and addition of new entities to the Entity List and the Unverified List, and we believe they do not have a material impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acquisition of Company Y On January 17, 2023, the Company completed its acquisition of a business, or Company Y, pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement, or the Purchase Agreement. The initial closing transaction consideration consisted of $9.9 million in cash. In addition, their stockholders may receive up to an additional $2.6 million in potential contingent consideration, subject to the acquired business satisfying certain personnel objectives by June 17, 2023. Company Y is headquartered in Bangalore, India and operates as a provider of engineering design services. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to business combinations, revenue recognition, inventory valuation, production masks, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that the following accounting estimates we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the estimates we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a summary of each of the related accounting policies. Business Combinations Estimates in our business combination accounting that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty include the valuation of identifiable intangible and tangible assets such as inventory, property and equipment, and intangible assets including in-process research and development, or IPR&D, and contingent consideration, which involve the use of forecasted financial information available at the acquisition date, including application of revenue growth rates and margin percentages, and use of a discount rate and various other assumptions as described in more detail in notes 1 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements. The reported amounts are sensitive to changes to certain assumptions used in the valuation. For example, if the discount rate used in our valuations increased by 1%, it would result in a decrease to the valuation of intangible assets of $3.8M for our 2020 acquisitions and $0.1M for our 2021 acquisition . The amortization and depreciation of such assets, and change in fair value of contingent consideration, impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to the acquisition, and such amounts are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment of intangible assets of $2.8 million associated with a 2021 acquisition. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we did not record any material adjustments to the valuation of such assets, goodwill, or subsequent period adjustments to the consolidated statements of operations associated with our other business combinations. 56 Revenue Recognition Estimates in our revenue recognition that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty include the estimates of price adjustments and returns under contractual stock rotation rights based on our analysis of expected value of actual price adjustment claims by distributors and product and historical return rates. Any changes to such estimates, for example differences in actual sell-through activity versus our estimate of sell-through activity in our price adjustments, or actual vs. historical return rates, may impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to recording those estimates, and such amounts are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. Other than our estimates of sell-through activity and customer return rates, there are no assumptions inherent in our estimates in the valuation of inventory that would result in sensitivity of reported amounts to such assumptions. During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 we have not recorded any material adjustments to such estimates. Inventory Valuation Estimates in the valuation of inventory that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty include our estimates of excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of future demand for our products in inventory. Any changes to such estimates, for example differences in actual sales versus our estimates of demand, or conversely, the ultimate sell-through of fully reserved inventory for which we did not anticipate any future demand, impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to recording those estimates. Other than our forecasts of future demand, there are no assumptions inherent in our estimates in the valuation of inventory that would result in sensitivity of reported amounts to such assumptions. During the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we have not recorded any material net adjustments for such changes in estimates. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Estimates in our assessment of impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and management judgment include the comparison of our market capitalization as of the annual impairment assessment date to the carrying value of goodwill, use of forecasted financial information for our projects remaining in IPR&D, including growth rates and margin percentages, and a discount rate as of the annual IPR&D impairment assessment date, and our quarterly assessment of whether indicators of impairment exist with respect to all of our goodwill and long-lived assets. For example, a decision to abandon a project involving the technology underlying developed technology and IPR&D may result in immediate impairment of such assets in the quarter such decision is made. As of the October 31 assessment date, the valuation of IPR&D was not sensitive to changes in the underlying discount rate used in our impairment analysis; for example, if our discount rate increased by 10%, it would not result in impairment of IPR&D . Impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to their acquisition, and such amounts are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded impairment of intangible assets of $2.8 million associated with a 2021 acquisition. During the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we did not record any material adjustments to the valuation of such assets. Income Taxes Estimates in our assessment of realizability of deferred tax assets that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and management judgment include projected future taxable income. For example, we continue to have a valuation allowance against state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. If projected future taxable income in the U.S., for example, were to increase from what we assumed in our estimates, in periods subsequent to recording valuation allowances, it may be more likely than not that a proportional amount of the valuation against deferred tax assets will be released, resulting in an impact to our tax provision (benefit). 57 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In October 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-08, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Accounting for Contract Assets and Contract Liabilities from Contracts with Customers , to provide specific guidance to eliminate diversity in practice on how to recognize and measure acquired contract assets and contract liabilities from revenue contracts from customers in a business combination consistent with revenue contracts with customers not acquired in an acquisition. The amendments in this update provide that the acquirer should consider the terms of the acquired contracts, such as timing of payment, identify each performance obligation in the contracts, and allocate the total transaction price to each identified performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis as of contract inception (that is, the date the acquiree entered into the contracts) or contract modification to determine what should be recorded at the acquisition date. These amendments are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2023. The impact of the adoption of the amendments in this update will depend on the magnitude of any customer contracts assumed in a business combination in 2023 and beyond. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations. A discussion of changes in our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 2, 2022, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference and which is available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, analog, digital, and mixed-signal integrated circuits for access and connectivity, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our sales are to distributors, who then resell our products. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation; equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology and purchased licensed technology intangible assets; inventory fair value adjustments; amortization of certain production mask costs and computer-aided design software license costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, merger, acquisition and integration costs, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Impairment Losses. Impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of intangible assets. Restructuring Charges . Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt. Loss on extinguishment of debt consists of the charge-off of remaining unamortized debt discount and issuance cost on debt we repaid early with a majority of the proceeds from a new term loan. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt and amortization of discounts on debt and other liabilities. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions, including sales of investments, and unrealized holding gains (losses) from certain investments required to be marked to market value. 58 Income tax provision. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income taxes for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of income data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 42 44 Gross profit 58 56 Operating expenses: Research and development 26 31 Selling, general and administrative 15 17 Impairment losses Restructuring charges Total operating expenses 42 48 Income from operations 16 7 Interest income Interest expense (1) (1) Loss on extinguishment of debt (1) Other income (expense), net Total other income (expense), net (1) (2) Income before income taxes 16 5 Income tax provision 4 1 Net income 11 % 5 % Net Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Broadband $ 493,232 $ 492,482 $ 750 % % of net revenue 44 % 55 % Connectivity 303,925 149,285 154,640 104 % % of net revenue 27 % 17 % Infrastructure 136,274 119,421 16,853 14 % % of net revenue 12 % 13 % Industrial and multi-market 186,821 131,210 55,611 42 % % of net revenue 17 % 15 % Total net revenue $ 1,120,252 $ 892,398 $ 227,854 26 % Net revenue increased $227.9 million to $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to $892.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in broadband net revenue of $0.8 million was primarily from gateway revenues. The increase in connectivity revenue of $154.6 million was primarily driven by higher Wi-Fi and ethernet revenues as our supply improved and an increase in MoCA product shipments. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $16.9 million was primarily driven by an increase in high-performance analog, wireless access and wireless backhaul shipments. The increase in industrial and multi-market revenue of $55.6 million was related to increased shipments of high-performance analog and component products. 59 We currently expect that revenue will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period. In the first quarter of 2023, certain of our product lines will likely experience a decrease in revenues due to macroeconomic conditions impacting customer demand for such products, which is consistent with the cyclical nature of our industry. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 470,483 $ 396,566 $ 73,917 19 % % of net revenue 42 % 44 % Gross profit 649,769 495,832 153,937 31 % % of net revenue 58 % 56 % Cost of net revenue increased $73.9 million to $470.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to $396.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by higher sales and incremental expense. Gross profit percentage improved for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, due primarily to revenue mix and improved absorption of amortization of intangible assets. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 296,442 $ 278,440 $ 18,002 6 % % of net revenue 26 % 31 % Research and development expense increased $18.0 million to $296.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $278.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by increased headcount to support increased R&D projects this year. We expect our research and development expenses to increase next quarter due to increased personnel costs, and increase in future years as we continue to expand our product portfolio and enhance existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 168,008 $ 149,943 $ 18,065 12 % % of net revenue 15 % 17 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased $18.1 million to $168.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as compared to $149.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to increased headcount as well as increased acquisition and integration costs of $6.8 million. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase next quarter due to increased personnel costs and increase in future years as we grow our sales and marketing organization to expand into existing and new markets. 60 Impairment Losses Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Impairment losses $ 2,811 $ $2,811 n/a % of net revenue % % Impairment losses in the year ended December 31, 2022 related to abandonment of certain acquired licensing agreements. Restructuring Charges Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 2,265 $ 2,204 $61 3% % of net revenue % % Restructuring charges increased $0.1 million to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily consisted of $1.8 million in employee severance-related charges and $0.5 million of lease-related charges, which is comprised of impairment of leased right-of-use assets from partial abandonment of a facility. Restructuring charges in the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of $1.3 million in employee severance-related charges and $0.6 million of lease-related charges, which primarily consisted of impairment of leased right-of-use assets and leasehold improvements. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Loss on extinguishment of debt $ $ (5,221) $5,221 (100)% % of net revenue % (1) % Loss on extinguishment of debt in the year ended December 31, 2021 consisted of the charge-off of remaining unamortized debt discount and issuance costs on debt under our prior term loan which we repaid early with proceeds from a new term loan in June 2021. Interest and Other Income (Expense ) Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (6,045) $ (12,154) $ 6,109 (50) % % of net revenue (1) % (1) % Interest and other income (expense), net decreased by $6.1 million to a net expense of $6.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2022 from a net expense of $12.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The change in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily due to the positive impact of a non-recurring gain on sale of privately held investments of $3.4 million and decreased interest expense of $3.2 million associated with a lower outstanding principal balance of debt, partially offset by unrealized losses on investments and impacts from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. 61 Income Tax Provision Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Income tax provision $ 49,158 $ 5,901 $ 43,257 733 % % of pre-tax income (loss) 28 % 12 % The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $49.2 million compared to an income tax provision of $5.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The difference between our effective tax rate and the 21.0% U.S. federal statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily related to the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, permanent tax items including a tax on global intangible low-taxed income, stock based compensation, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, release of uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10, and release of the valuation allowance on certain federal research and development credits. The permanent tax item related to global intangible low-taxed income, or GILTI, also reflects recent legislative changes requiring the capitalization of research and experimentation costs, as well as limitations on the creditability of certain foreign income taxes. The difference between our effective tax rate and the 21.0% U.S. federal statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 resulted primarily from a tax on GILTI, and non-deductible foreign stock-based compensation, offset by a benefit related to research and development tax credits, foreign earnings taxed at rates other than the federal statutory rate and the effect of a release of valuation allowance against certain Singapore deferred tax assets pertaining to usage of net operating losses. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we continue to have a valuation allowance on state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We do not incur income tax expense or benefit in certain tax-free jurisdictions in which we operate. Our subsidiary in Singapore operates under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are effective through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. We recorded a tax provision in the year ended December 31, 2022 at the incentive rate. In the year ended December 31, 2021, due to our Singapore net operating losses and a full valuation allowance in Singapore, the incentives did not have a material impact on our income tax provision. The incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. On August 9, 2022, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, or the CHIPS Act, was enacted in the United States. The CHIPS Act will provide financial incentives to the semiconductor industry which are primarily directed at manufacturing activities within the United States for qualifying property placed in service after December 31, 2022. As we currently outsource our manufacturing, the CHIPS Act is not expected to have a material impact to our consolidated tax provision for the year ending December 31, 2023. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, or IRA, was signed into law on August 16, 2022. The bill was meant to address the high inflation rate in the United States through various climate, energy, healthcare, and other incentives. These incentives are meant to be paid for by the tax provisions included in the IRA, such as a new 15 percent corporate minimum tax, a 1 percent new excise tax on stock buybacks, additional IRS funding to improve taxpayer compliance, and others. The IRA provisions are effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. At this time, none of the IRA tax provisions are expected to have a material impact to our consolidated tax provision for the year ending December 31, 2023. We will continue to monitor updates to our business along with guidance issued with respect to both Acts to determine whether any adjustments are needed to our consolidated tax provision in future periods. 62 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $187.4 million, restricted cash of $1.0 million and net accounts receivable of $171.0 million. Additionally, as of December 31, 2022, our working capital, which we define as current assets less current liabilities, was $222.0 million. Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses and purchases of inventory, property and equipment, and from time to time, the acquisition of businesses. In May 2022, we entered into the Merger Agreement to acquire Silicon Motion. As described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, the implied value of the total transaction consideration for Silicon Motion is approximately $4.3 billion. MaxLinear may fund up to $3.5 billion of cash consideration with cash on hand and fully committed debt financing from Wells Fargo Bank and other lenders. In June 2022 and October 2022, we amended and restated the commitment letter with Wells Fargo Bank and other lenders pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the lenders have committed to provide (i) a senior secured term B loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2.7375 billion (ii) a senior secured term A loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $512.5 million and (iii) a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $250.0 million. Funding of the Senior Secured Credit Facilities is contingent on customary conditions, including, but not limited to the consummation of the merger and execution of definitive loan agreements. A portion of the proceeds from the Senior Secured Credit Facilities will be used to repay our existing debt in full. We also use cash to pay down outstanding debt, repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase plan, and from time to time, make investments. As of December 31, 2022, $125.0 million of principal was outstanding under a senior secured term B loan facility, or the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement. The Company also has available a senior secured revolving credit facility, or the Revolving Facility, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million which remained undrawn as of December 31, 2022. The proceeds of the Revolving Facility may be used to finance the working capital needs and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. Commencing on September 30, 2021, the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement has amortized in equal quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement, with the balance payable on June 23, 2028. We could be subject to substantial variable interest rate risk because our interest rate under term loans typically vary based on a fixed margin over an indexed rate or an adjusted base rate. While we are mitigating the impact of rising interest rates with large amounts of prepayments on our outstanding debt, if interest rates were to further increase substantially, particularly with respect to our anticipated debt associated with the Silicon Motion merger, it would have a material adverse effect our operating results and could affect our ability to service the indebtedness. Please refer to the Risk Factor entitled In order to consummate the merger and distribute the cash consideration payable to Silicon Motion securityholders, we will incur material indebtedness of up to $3.5 billion and we may also use a portion of Silicon Motions and our cash resources. This material increase in our indebtedness will adversely affect our operating results and cash-flows as we satisfy our underlying interest and principal payment obligations. The loan agreement is also expected to contain financial and operational covenants that would adversely affect our operational freedom or ability to pursue strategic transactions that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of stockholders, including obtaining additional indebtedness to finance such transactions for a discussion for a discussion of how our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including changes in revenue, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products, our pending merger with Silicon Motion, and any other potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations or execute our strategic plans. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets and property and equipment, stock-based compensation, impairment of intangible assets, impairment of leased right-of-use assets and related leasehold improvements and unrealized holding or realized gains or losses on marketable equity securities. Cash used to fund capital purchases and acquisitions of businesses and investments are included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash proceeds from issuance of common stock and debt and cash used to pay down outstanding debt or repurchase common stock are included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. 63 As of December 31, 2022, our material cash requirements include long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations, which primarily consist of contractual payments due for computer-aided design software, as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Long term debt obligations $ 125,000 $ $ $ $ 125,000 Operating lease obligations 36,178 11,445 15,461 8,695 577 Purchase obligations 132,772 132,635 137 Other obligations 29,920 20,820 9,100 Total $ 323,870 $ 164,900 $ 24,698 $ 8,695 $ 125,577 Our planned capital expenditures as of December 31, 2022 were not material. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2022 included $6.0 million in other long-term liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as other long-term liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. The June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement, under which we entered into a senior secured term B loan facility and a revolving credit facility, permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of an amount equal to the greater of (x) $175.0 million and (y) 100% of Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in such agreement), plus the amount of certain voluntary prepayments, plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain first lien net leverage ratio, secured net leverage ratio and total net leverage ratio tests. The following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods indicated: December 31, December 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Working capital $ 222,038 $ 196,709 Cash and cash equivalents $ 187,353 $ 130,572 Short-term restricted cash 982 105 Long-term restricted cash 22 1,061 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 188,357 $ 131,738 64 The following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 388,726 $ 168,233 Net cash used in investing activities (91,762) (91,757) Net cash used in financing activities (240,401) (91,903) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 56 (2,869) Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 56,619 $ (18,296) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $388.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and consisted of positive impact of net income of $125.0 million and non-cash items of $164.1 million, changes in operating assets and liabilities of $86.0 million, and excess tax benefits and deferred income taxes totaling $13.5 million. Non-cash items included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily consisted of stock-based compensation of $81.7 million, depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets of $80.7 million, and intangible impairment loss of $2.8 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $168.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and primarily consisted of the positive impact from net income of $42.0 million and non-cash items of $161.2 million, partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $24.3 million and deferred income taxes and excess tax benefits totaling $10.7 million. Non-cash items included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets of $91.8 million, stock-based compensation of $59.4 million, loss on extinguishment of debt of $5.2 million, and amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts of $3.0 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $91.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 and consisted of purchases of property and equipment of $41.3 million, purchases of investments of $29.3 million, purchases of intangible assets of $11.2 million and proceeds loaned under notes receivable of $10.0 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $91.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and consisted of cash used in the acquisitions of $40.0 million comprising $35.0 million in payments of purchase price from our 2020 acquisition of NanoSemi that were previously deferred under the terms of the merger agreement and $5.0 million to purchase a business, purchases of property and equipment of $39.2 million, purchases of intangible assets of $7.6 million, and purchases of investments in a private entity of $5.0 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $240.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Net cash used in financing activities consisted of repayments of debt of $185.0 million, common stock repurchases of $31.5 million, minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units of $28.9 million, partially offset by cash inflows from net proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options of $5.0 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $91.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of repayments of principal on outstanding debt of $409.8 million, common stock repurchases of $23.5 million, minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units of $13.1 million, and payments of debt issuance costs of $4.2 million, partially offset by cash inflows from net proceeds from the issuance of debt of $350.0 million and from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options of $8.8 million. 65 We believe that our $187.4 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2022 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, excluding anticipated cash expenditures for the pending merger and related integration costs which will be financed primarily through additional debt under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. As of December 31, 2022, our indebtedness totaled $125.0 million, which consists of outstanding principal under the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement. Upon consummation of our merger with Silicon Motion and execution of related merger financing agreements, we expect that a portion of the proceeds from the Senior Secured Credit Facilities associated with the merger, described in more detail above, will be used to repay our existing indebtedness in full, and our indebtedness may increase up to $3.5 billion under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. The Revolving Facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million remained undrawn as of December 31, 2022. The Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement has a seven-year term expiring in June 2028 and bears interest, at the Companys option, at a per annum rate equal to either (i) a base rate equal to the highest of (x) the federal funds rate, plus 0.50%, (y) the prime rate then in effect and (z) an adjusted LIBOR rate determined on the basis of a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, in each case, plus an applicable margin of 1.25% or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate, subject to a floor of 0.50%, plus an applicable margin of 2.25%. Loans under the Revolving Facility initially bear interest, at a per annum rate equal to either (i) a base rate (as calculated above) plus an applicable margin of 0.00%, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate (as calculated above) plus an applicable margin of 1.00%. Following delivery of financial statements for the Companys fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2021, the applicable margin for loans under the Revolving Facility will range from 0.00% to 0.75% in the case of base rate loans and 1.00% to 1.75% in the case of LIBOR rate loans, in each case, depending on the Companys secured net leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. The Company is required to pay commitment fees ranging from 0.175% to 0.25% per annum on the daily undrawn commitments under the Revolving Facility, depending on the Companys secured net leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. Commencing on September 30, 2021, the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount, with the balance payable at maturity on June 23, 2028. The June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement contains customary provisions specifying alternative interest rate calculations to be employed at such time as LIBOR ceases to be available as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate on floating interest rate borrowings. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2022, we issued 0.5 million freely-tradable shares of our common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the 2021 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2022, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons.