ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio-frequency, or RF, high-performance analog, and mixed-signal communications systems-on-chip solutions for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a broadband communication system. In most cases, these products are designed on a single silicon-die, using standard digital CMOS processes and conventional packaging technologies. We believe this enables our solutions to achieve superior power, performance, and cost advantages relative to our industry competition. Our customers include electronics distributors, module makers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and original design manufacturers (ODMs), who incorporate our products in a wide range of electronic devices. Examples of such end market electronic devices incorporating our products include cable DOCSIS broadband modems and gateways; wireline connectivity devices for in-home networking applications; RF transceivers and modems for wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure; fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport networks; video set-top boxes and gateways; hybrid analog and digital televisions, direct broadcast satellite outdoor and indoor units; and power management and interface products used in these and a range of other markets. 29 Table of Contents We combine our high-performance RF and mixed-signal semiconductor design skills with our expertise in digital communications systems, software, high-performance analog, and embedded systems to provide highly integrated semiconductor devices and platform-level solutions that are manufactured using a range of semiconductor manufacturing processes, including low-cost complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, process technology, Silicon Germanium, Gallium Arsenide, BiCMOS and Indium Phosphide process technologies. Our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog and digital signal processing functionality in the same integrated circuit. As a result, our solutions have high levels of functional integration and performance, small silicon die size, and low power consumption. Moreover, we are uniquely positioned to offer customers a combination of proprietary CMOS-based radio system architectures that provide the benefits of superior RF system performance, along with high-performance analog interface and power management solutions that enable shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility, and low system cost across a wide range of broadband communications, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $119.6 million in fiscal 2013 to $385.0 million in fiscal 2018 . In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , revenues were $84.6 million . In fiscal 2018 and the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital pay-TV applications, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the smartphone market, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 85% and 77% of net revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, including 67% and 61% , respectively, from products shipped to China. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. There is a growing portion of our business, related specifically to our high-speed optical interconnect products, that are shipped to, and are ultimately consumed in Asian markets, with the majority of these products being purchased by end customers in China. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , one of our customers, Arris (which was recently acquired by CommScope Holding Company, Inc.) accounted for 12% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 60% of our net revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 , one of our customers, Arris, accounted for 27% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 63% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a 30 Table of Contents product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that accounting policies we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 , which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 5, 2019, or our Annual Report. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) . The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We have made this election. Also, in July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements , to provide an additional transition method. An entity can elect not to present comparative financial information under Topic 842 if it recognizes a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings upon adoption. We have also made this election. Further, in January 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-01, Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements , which clarified that post-adoption interim transition disclosures normally required in the year of adoption for the effect of a change in accounting principle on an entitys financial statements are not required for the adoption of ASC 842. The amendments in these updates are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We have completed our assessment of the impact of the adoption of ASC 842. Upon adoption, we recognized approximately $24.8 million of right-of-use assets and a net increase of $25.1 million in lease-related liabilities at January 1, 2019. Also, the impact of the adoption of ASC 842 on our accumulated deficit and deferred tax assets at January 1, 2019 was not material. Lastly, the impact of the adoption of ASC 842 on our consolidated results of operations for the year ending December 31, 2019 is not expected to be material. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases , to clarify on how to apply certain aspects of the new lease accounting standard. The amendments in this update, among other things, better articulates the requirement for a lessee's reassessment of lease classification as of the effective date of a modification, clarifies that a change to an index or rate for variable lease payments does not constitute a resolution of a contingency that would result in the remeasurement of lease payments, and requires entities that apply Topic 842 retrospectively to each reporting period and do not adopt the practical expedients to write off any prior unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition under Topic 842 to equity. The amendments in this update have the same effective date and transition requirements as the new lease standard summarized above. We have disclosed the impact of adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as stated above. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-09, Codification Improvements , to clarify the Codification and prevent unintended application of the guidance. An amendment to ASC 718-740, CompensationStock CompensationIncome Taxes , 31 Table of Contents clarifies that excess tax benefits should be recognized in the period in which the amount of the deduction is determined. The transition and effective date guidance is based on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. The amendment identified above will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2019. The adoption of the amendments in this update in the three months ended March 31, 2019 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) , which is intended to improve accounting for hedging activities by expanding and refining hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and aligning the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. The amendments in this update became effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update were required to be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amendments in this update in the three months ended March 31, 2019 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement , to improve the fair value measurement reporting of financial instruments. The amendments in this update require, among other things, added disclosure of the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update eliminate, among other things, disclosure of the reasons for and amounts of transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and an entity's valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. Retrospective application is required for all amendments in this update except the added disclosures, which should be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Intangibles- Goodwill and OtherInternal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract , to provide additional guidance on the accounting for costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts. The amendments in this update require the capitalization of implementation costs during the application development stage of such hosting arrangements and amortization of the expense over the term of the arrangement including any option to extend reasonably certain to be exercised or option to terminate reasonably certain not to be exercised. Capitalized implementation costs and amortization thereof are also required to be classified in the same line item in the statements of financial position, operations and cash flows associated with the hosting service fees. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. Entities may select retrospective or prospective application to all implementation costs incurred after the adoption date. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our unaudited consolidated statements of operations . Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, analog and mixed signal integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our sales are to distributors, who then resell our products. 32 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Restructuring Charges . Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Income Tax Benefit . We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income taxes for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. 33 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 47 43 Gross profit 53 57 Operating expenses: Research and development 32 28 Selling, general and administrative 28 24 Restructuring charges 2 Total operating expenses 63 53 Income (loss) from operations (9 ) 4 Total interest and other income (expense), net (4 ) (4 ) Loss before income taxes (13 ) Income tax benefit (8 ) (2 ) Net income (loss) (6 )% 2 % Net Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Connected home $ 43,432 $ 65,658 $ (22,226 ) (34 )% % of net revenue 51 % 59 % Infrastructure 22,102 20,490 1,612 8 % % of net revenue 26 % 19 % Industrial and multi-market 19,101 24,679 (5,578 ) (23 )% % of net revenue 23 % 22 % Total net revenue $ 84,635 $ 110,827 $ (26,192 ) (24 %) Net revenue decreased $26.2 million to $84.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to $110.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $22.2 million was driven by a slowdown in the cable market, which impacted both cable and related MoCA product shipments, owing to the market transition from DOCSIS 3.0 to DOCSIS 3.1 and related customer inventory reductions, partially offset by increased satellite product shipments. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $1.6 million was primarily driven by increased high performance analog shipments in this category. The decrease in industrial and multi-market revenue of $5.6 million was related to decreased shipments of high performance analog products in this category. We currently expect that revenue will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on evolving customer demand for existing products, the pace of adoption of newer products, and macroeconomic conditions. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 39,558 $ 48,159 $ (8,601 ) (18 )% % of net revenue 47 % 43 % Gross profit 45,077 62,668 (17,591 ) (28 )% % of net revenue 53 % 57 % 34 Table of Contents Cost of net revenue decreased $8.6 million to $39.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to $48.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales. The decrease in gross profit percentage for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , was due to lower revenue and product mix. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 27,399 $ 31,121 (3,722 ) (12 )% % of net revenue 32 % 28 % Research and development expense decreased $3.7 million to $27.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $31.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to decreases in payroll-related expenses of $2.0 million due to lower headcount, depreciation expense of $0.6 million as a result of certain machinery and equipment reaching the end of their useful lives, prototype expenses of $0.6 million, and occupancy expenses of $0.3 million due to termination of certain leases. We expect our research and development expenses to decrease or remain flat in the near term; however our expenses are likely to increase in the future as we continue to grow our business in building follow up products and expanding our product portfolio. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 23,591 $ 27,117 (3,526 ) (13 )% % of net revenue 28 % 24 % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $3.5 million to $23.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to $27.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in intangible asset amortization of $2.2 million as certain assets reached the end of their useful lives, as well as decreases in payroll-related expense of $0.8 million due to lower headcount and professional fees of $0.5 million. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to decrease or remain flat in the near-term; however, our expenses may increase in the future when we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets. Restructuring charges Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 1,917 $ 1,917 100 % % of net revenue 2 % % Restructuring charges increased $1.9 million to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Restructuring charges in 2019 primarily consisted of lease restructuring charges of $1.3 million related to exiting certain redundant facilities and severance-related charges of $0.5 million in connection with employee separation expenses. 35 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense ) Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (3,483 ) $ (4,447 ) 964 (22 )% % of net revenue (4 )% (4 )% Interest and other income (expense), net changed by $1.0 million from a net expense of $4.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to a net expense of $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The change in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily due to a decrease in interest expense of $0.9 million related to interest charges on a lower average balance of debt outstanding under our term loan facility during the period. Income Tax Benefit Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Income tax benefit $ (6,462 ) $ (1,864 ) (4,598 ) 247 % The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $6.5 million or approximately 57% of pre-tax loss compared to an income tax benefit of $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 each primarily related to the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, discrete tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and release of certain foreign reserves for uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we continue to have a valuation allowance on state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We do not incur income tax expense or benefit in certain tax-free jurisdictions in which we operate. Our subsidiary in Singapore operates under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the year ending December 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $71.1 million , restricted cash of $0.8 million and net accounts receivable of $59.6 million . Additionally, as of March 31, 2019 , our working capital was $105.8 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory, property and equipment, intangible assets, and from time to time, the acquisition of businesses. We also use cash to pay down outstanding debt. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, and impairment of intangible assets and long-lived assets. Cash used to fund capital purchases is included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash used to pay down outstanding debt is included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. 36 Table of Contents Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. Our credit agreement, under which we entered into a term loan to partially fund our acquisition of Exar, permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. We have not requested any incremental loans to date. Following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods indicated: March 31, December 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Working capital $ 105,837 $ 110,044 Cash and cash equivalents $ 71,102 $ 73,142 Short-term restricted cash 347 645 Long-term restricted cash 418 404 Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 71,867 $ 74,191 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 16,045 $ 11,971 Net cash used in investing activities (2,155 ) (2,381 ) Net cash used in financing activities (16,791 ) (26,411 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 577 (258 ) Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (2,324 ) $ (17,079 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $16.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of positive cash flow from $26.4 million in non-cash expenses and $2.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by deferred income taxes and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $8.2 million and net loss of $4.9 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily included depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets of $16.9 million and stock-based compensation of $7.7 million . During the first quarter of 2019, we also exited certain leased facilities, which resulted in impairments of leased right-of-use assets of $2.2 million and leasehold improvements of $1.4 million , which was partially offset by a gain on extinguishment of related lease liabilities of $2.9 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $12.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Net cash provided by operating activities for this period primarily consisted of positive cash flow from adding back $29.3 million in non-cash operating expenses to net income of $1.8 million , partially offset by $16.1 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, and $3.1 million in deferred income taxes and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards. Non-cash operating expense items included in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and acquired intangible assets of $20.1 million , stock-based compensation of $8.5 million , and losses on foreign currency of $0.5 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and consisted entirely of purchases of property and equipment. 37 Table of Contents Net cash used in investing activities was $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and consisted entirely of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $16.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of cash outflows from aggregate principal prepayments of debt of $15.0 million and $4.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by cash inflows of $2.6 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities was $26.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and consisted primarily of cash outflows from aggregate prepayments of principal of $25.0 million on outstanding debt and $2.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees related to vesting of restricted stock units and issuance of stock for bonus awards, partially offset by cash inflows from $1.0 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. We believe that our $71.1 million of cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2019 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have repaid $178.0 million of debt to date. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement or new lenders. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2019, we issued 0.3 million freely-tradable shares of our common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the 2018 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2019, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations or execute our strategic plans. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2019 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. 38 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2019 , future minimum payments under long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations were as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Long-term debt obligations $ 247,000 $ $ $ $ 247,000 Operating lease obligations 28,737 6,484 17,448 4,805 Inventory purchase obligations 68,866 68,866 Other obligations 12,411 6,122 5,417 872 Total $ 357,014 $ 81,472 $ 22,865 $ 5,677 $ 247,000 Other obligations consist of contractual payments due for software licenses. Our consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2019 included $6.6 million in other long-term liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as other long-term liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Other than disclosed above, there have been no other material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2019 to our contractual obligations disclosed in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018. 39 Table of Contents