Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Years Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 420,318 $ 387,832 $ 300,360 $ 133,112 $ 119,646 Cost of net revenue 212,355 157,842 144,937 51,154 46,683 Gross profit 207,963 229,990 155,423 81,958 72,963 Operating expenses: Research and development 112,279 97,745 85,405 56,625 53,132 Selling, general and administrative 105,831 64,454 77,981 34,191 32,181 IPR&D impairment losses 2,000 1,300 21,600 Restructuring charges 9,524 3,432 14,086 Total operating expenses 229,634 166,931 199,072 90,816 85,313 Income (loss) from operations (21,671 ) 63,059 (43,649 ) (8,858 ) (12,350 ) Interest income 274 572 275 236 222 Interest expense (10,378 ) (104 ) (100 ) (15 ) (4 ) Other income (expense), net (2,223 ) 163 568 (108 ) (199 ) Total interest and other income (expense), net (12,327 ) 631 743 113 19 Income (loss) before income taxes (33,998 ) 63,690 (42,906 ) (8,745 ) (12,331 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (24,811 ) 2,398 (575 ) (1,704 ) 402 Net income (loss) $ (9,187 ) $ 61,292 $ (42,331 ) $ (7,041 ) $ (12,733 ) Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ (0.14 ) $ 0.96 $ (0.79 ) $ (0.19 ) $ (0.37 ) Diluted $ (0.14 ) $ 0.91 $ (0.79 ) $ (0.19 ) $ (0.37 ) Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 66,252 63,781 53,378 36,472 34,012 Diluted 66,252 67,653 53,378 36,472 34,012 As of December 31, 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short- and long-term investments, available-for-sale $ 74,412 $ 136,805 $ 130,498 $ 79,351 $ 86,354 Working capital 124,918 158,304 134,170 67,668 56,558 Total assets 824,862 422,652 334,505 135,711 124,929 Total stockholders equity 387,424 352,424 262,924 99,102 86,674 49 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio frequency, or RF, high-performance analog, and mixed-signal communications systems-on-chip solutions for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. Our customers include electronics distributors, module makers, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and original design manufacturers, or ODMs, who incorporate the Companys products in a wide range of electronic devices including cable DOCSIS broadband modems and gateways; wireline connectivity devices for in-home networking applications; RF transceivers and modems for wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure; fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport networks; video set-top boxes and gateways; hybrid analog and digital televisions, direct broadcast satellite outdoor and indoor units; and power management and interface products used in these and a range of other markets. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a broadband communication system. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $420.3 million in fiscal 2017 . In fiscal 2017 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital pay-TV applications, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the smartphone market, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 89% , 93% and 91% of net revenue during the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products during the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products during the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. There is a growing portion of our business, related specifically to our high-speed optical interconnect products, that are shipped to, and are ultimately consumed in Asian markets, with the majority of these products being purchased by end customers in China. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the year ended December 31, 2017 , one of our customers, Arris, accounted for 25% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 58% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2016 , two of our customers, Arris and Technicolor (which includes Cisco's former connected devices business), accounted for 37% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 74% of our net revenue. Sales to Arris as a percentage of revenue include sales to Pace, which was acquired by Arris in January 2016, for the year ended December 31, 2016. In the year ended December 31, 2015 , two of our customers, Arris, and Technicolor (which includes Cisco's former connected devices business), accounted for 41% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 76% of our net revenue. In November 2015, Technicolor completed its purchase of Ciscos connected devices business. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , the revenue percentage did not include the 1% revenue percentage for Technicolor. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. 50 Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and satellite gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. On April 30, 2015, the Company completed its acquisition of Entropic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement or merger agreements dated as of February 3, 2015, by and among MaxLinear, Entropic, and two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, all of the Entropic outstanding shares were converted into the right to receive consideration consisting of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. We paid an aggregate of $111.1 million in cash and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock to the stockholders of Entropic. In addition, we assumed all outstanding Entropic stock options and unvested restricted stock units that were held by continuing service providers (as defined in the merger agreement). The Company used Entropics cash and cash equivalents to fund a significant portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration and, to a lesser extent, our own cash and cash equivalents. On April 28, 2016, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc., formerly known as PMC-Sierra, Inc., or Microsemi, and consummated the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement. We paid cash consideration of $21.0 million for the purchase of certain wireless access assets of Microsemi's wireless infrastructure access business, and assumed certain specified liabilities. The assets acquired include, among other things, radio frequency and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation RF transceiver designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property, plant, and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees of the wireless infrastructure access business that were rehired by the Company. On May 9, 2016, we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business of Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom. On July 1, 2016, we consummated the transactions contemplated by the purchase agreement and paid aggregate cash consideration of $80.0 million and hired certain employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business. The assets acquired include, among other things, digital baseband, radio frequency, or RF, and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation digital baseband and RF transceiver integrated circuit and reference platform designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations, liabilities for technologies acquired, and a payable to Broadcom as reimbursement of costs associated with the termination of those employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business who were not hired by MaxLinear upon the closing of the acquisition. For more information, please refer to Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements. The acquired assets and liabilities, together with the rehired employees for each of these acquisitions, represent businesses as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations . We have integrated the acquired assets and rehired employees into our existing business. Recent Developments On March 29, 2017, each share of our then outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock and shares underlying our then outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and restricted stock awards automatically converted into a single class of our common stock or rights to receive shares of a single class of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The conversion had no impact on the total number of issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock; the Class A shares and Class B shares converted into an equivalent number of shares of our common stock. In addition, the conversion did not increase the total number of authorized shares of our common stock, 51 which prior to the conversion was, and remains, 550,000,000 shares. However, our total number of authorized shares of capital stock was reduced from 1,575,000,000 to 1,509,554,147, to account for the retirement of the Class A shares and Class B shares that were outstanding at the time of the conversion. Following the conversion, our authorized capital stock includes 441,123,947 Class A shares and 493,430,200 Class B shares, which represents Class A shares and Class B shares that were authorized but unissued at the time of the conversion. No additional Class A shares or Class B shares will be issued following the conversion. Following the conversion, each share of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share and otherwise has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences as the Class A common stock prior to the conversion. In addition, holders of our common stock vote as a single class of stock on any matter that is submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Prior to the conversion, the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock had identical voting rights, except that holders of Class A common stock were entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B common stock were entitled to ten votes per share with respect to transactions that would result in a change of control of our company or that relate to our equity incentive plans. In addition, holders of Class B common stock had the exclusive right to elect two members of our Board of Directors, each referred to as a Class B Director. The shares of our Class B common stock were not publicly traded. Each share of our Class B common stock was convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converted upon sale or other transfer. On April 4, 2017, we consummated the transactions contemplated by a share and asset acquisition agreement with Marvell Semiconductor Inc., or Marvell, to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of Marvells G.hn business, including its Spain legal entity, for aggregate cash consideration of $21.0 million. We also hired certain employees of the G.hn business outside of Spain and assumed employment obligations of the Spanish entity we acquired, which is now a subsidiary of MaxLinear. The assets acquired include, among other things, patents and other intellectual property, a workforce-in-place and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees who joined MaxLinear and its subsidiaries as a result of the transaction. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities, together with the employees, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations. We are integrating the acquired assets and employees into our existing business. In April 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event the Company does not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the year ending December 31, 2018. On May 12, 2017, pursuant to the March 28, 2017 Agreement and Plan of Merger, Eagle Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear merged with and into Exar Corporation, or Exar, with Exar surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of MaxLinear. Under this Agreement and Plan of Merger, we agreed to acquire Exar's outstanding common stock for $13.00 per share in cash. We also assumed certain of Exar's stock-based awards in the merger. We paid aggregate cash consideration of $688.1 million, including $12.7 million of cash paid to settle certain stock-based awards that were not assumed by us in the merger. We funded the transaction with cash from the balance sheet of the combined companies, including $235.8 million of cash from Exar, and the net proceeds of approximately $416.8 million under a secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $425.0 million. The facility is available (i) to finance the Merger, refinance certain existing indebtedness of Exar and its subsidiaries, and fund all related transactions, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith and (iii) for working capital and general corporate purposes. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and the term loans bear interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, plus a fixed applicable margin. Exar is a designer and developer of high-performance analog mixed-signal integrated circuits and sub-system solutions. The merger significantly furthers our strategic goals of increasing revenue scale, diversifying revenues by end customers and addressable markets, and expanding our analog and mixed-signal footprint on existing tier-one customer platforms. Exar adds a diverse portfolio of high-performance analog and mixed-signal products constituting power management and interface technologies that are ubiquitous functions in wireless and wireline communications infrastructure, broadband access, industrial, enterprise networking, and automotive platforms. We intend to leverage combined technological expertise, cross-selling opportunities and distribution channels to significantly expand our serviceable addressable market. For a discussion of specific 52 risks and uncertainties that could affect our ability to achieve these and other strategic objectives of our acquisitions, please refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subsection captioned Risks Relating to Recent Acquisitions. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Revenue is generated from sales of our integrated circuits. We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: 1) there is persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, 2) delivery of goods has occurred, 3) the sales price is fixed or determinable and 4) collectability is reasonably assured. Title to product transfers to customers either when it is shipped to or received by the customer, based on the terms of the specific agreement with the customer. Revenue is recorded based on the facts at the time of sale. Transactions for which we cannot reliably estimate the amount that will ultimately be collected at the time the product has shipped and title has transferred to the customer are deferred until the amount that is probable of collection can be determined. Items that are considered when determining the amounts that will be ultimately collected are a customers overall creditworthiness and payment history, customer rights to return unsold product, customer rights to price protection, customer payment terms conditioned on sale or use of product by the customer, or extended payment terms granted to a customer. A portion of our revenues are generated from sales made through distributors, some of which are under agreements allowing for pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights of return. Pricing credits to our distributors may result from our price protection and unit rebate provisions, among other factors. These pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights prevent us from being able to reliably estimate the final sales price of the inventory sold and the amount of inventory that could be returned pursuant to these agreements. As a result, for some sales through distributors, we have determined that it does not meet all of the required revenue recognition criteria at the time we deliver our products to distributors as the final sales price is not fixed or determinable. For such sales, revenue is not recognized until product is shipped to the end customer, which is when the amount that will ultimately be collected is fixed or determinable. Upon shipment of product to these distributors, title to the inventory transfers to the distributor and the distributor is invoiced, generally with 30 to 60 day terms. On shipments to our distributors where revenue is not recognized, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieving the inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the corresponding gross profit in our consolidated balance sheet as a component of deferred revenue and deferred profit, representing the difference between the receivable recorded and the cost of inventory shipped. We also accept orders or amendments to orders with non-cancellable and non-refundable, or NCNR, terms with fixed pricing. For such transactions, revenue is not deferred. As of January 1, 2018, all sales to distributors will be recognized upon shipment and estimates of future pricing credits and/or stock rotation rights from the Company's distributors will reduce related revenues. If our estimates of such credits and rights are materially inaccurate, it may result in adjustments that affect future revenues and gross profits. We record reductions in revenue for estimated pricing adjustments related to price protection agreements with our end customers in the same period that the related revenue is recorded. Price protection pricing adjustments are recorded at the time of sale as a reduction to revenue and an increase in our accrued liabilities. The amount of these reductions is based on specific criteria included in the agreements and other factors known at the time. We accrue 100% of potential price protection adjustments at the time of sale and do not apply a breakage factor. We de-recognize the accrual for unclaimed price protection amounts as specific programs contractually end or when we believe unclaimed amounts are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid. 53 Revenues from sales through our distributors accounted for 34% , 19% and 13% of net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and assess each customers credit worthiness. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience, our anticipation of uncollectible accounts receivable and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While our credit losses have historically been insignificant, we may experience higher credit loss rates in the future than we have in the past. Our receivables are concentrated with relatively few customers. Therefore, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any one significant customer could make collection of our accounts receivable more difficult, require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and negatively affect our working capital. Inventory Valuation We assess the recoverability of our inventory based on assumptions about demand and market conditions. Forecasted demand is determined based on historical sales and expected future sales. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. We reduce our inventory to its lower of cost or net realizable value on a part-by-part basis to account for its obsolescence or lack of marketability. Reductions are calculated as the difference between the cost of inventory and its net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand, market conditions and costs. Once established, these adjustments are considered permanent and are not revised until the related inventory is sold or disposed of. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required that may adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross profits when products are sold. Production Masks Production masks with alternative future uses or discernible future benefits are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life of two years. To determine if the production mask has alternative future uses or benefits, we evaluate risks associated with developing new technologies and capabilities, and the related risks associated with entering new markets. Production masks that do not meet the criteria for capitalization are expensed as research and development costs. Business Combinations We apply the provisions of ASC 805, Business Combinations , in accounting for our acquisitions. ASC 805 requires us to recognize separately from goodwill the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed, at the acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred over the acquisition date fair values of the net assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the consolidated statements of operations. Costs to exit or restructure certain activities of an acquired company or our internal operations are accounted for as termination and exit costs pursuant to ASC 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations , and are accounted for separately from the business combination. A liability for costs associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured at its fair value in the consolidated statement of operations in the period in which the liability is incurred. When estimating the fair value of facility restructuring activities, assumptions are applied regarding estimated sub-lease payments to be received, which can differ materially from actual results. This may require us to revise our initial estimates which may materially affect the results of operations and financial position in the period the revision is made. For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition contingencies as of the acquisition date and may extend our review and evaluation of these pre-acquisition contingencies throughout the measurement period in order to obtain sufficient information to assess whether we include these contingencies as a part of the fair value estimates of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and, if so, to determine their estimated amounts. 54 If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, which is generally the case given the nature of such matters, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on results of operations and financial position. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to the preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill if identified within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or final determination of the estimated value of the tax allowance or contingency, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances will affect the income taxes provision (benefit) in the consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for under the acquisition method. Intangible assets represent purchased intangible assets including developed technology and in-process research and development, or IPR&D, and technologies acquired or licensed from other companies, customer relationships, noncompete covenants, backlog, and trademarks and tradenames. Purchased finite-lived intangible assets are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Technologies acquired or licensed from other companies, customer relationships, noncompete covenants, backlog, and trademarks and tradenames are capitalized and amortized over the greater of the terms of the agreement, or estimated useful life. We capitalize IPR&D projects acquired as part of a business combination. On completion of each project, IPR&D assets are reclassified to developed technology and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment using either a qualitative assessment, and/or the two-step method as needed. This involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, which we have determined to be the entity itself, with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying amount, the goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We test by reporting unit, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at October 31 each year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. During development, IPR&D is not subject to amortization and is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets each year for impairment using a qualitative assessment, followed by a quantitative assessment, as needed, each year as of October 31, the date of our annual goodwill impairment review, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value. In certain cases, we utilize the relief-from-royalty method when appropriate, and a fair value will be obtained based on analysis over the costs saved by owning the right instead of leasing it. Once an IPR&D project is complete, it becomes a finite-lived intangible asset and is evaluated for impairment both immediately prior to its change in classification and thereafter in accordance with our policy for long-lived assets. We regularly review the carrying amount of our long-lived assets subject to depreciation and amortization, as well as the useful lives, to determine whether indicators of impairment may exist which warrant adjustments to carrying values or estimated useful lives. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the expected future undiscounted net cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Should impairment exist, the impairment loss would be measured based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the assets fair value. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are presented net as noncurrent. The provision for income taxes generally represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes 55 result from the differences between the financial and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when a judgment is made that is considered more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A decision to record a valuation allowance results in an increase in income tax expense or a decrease in income tax benefit. If the valuation allowance is released in a future period, income tax expense will be reduced accordingly. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. The impact of an uncertain income tax position is recognized at the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. Any adjustment to the net deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded in the income statement for the period that the adjustment is determined to be required. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, was enacted into U.S. tax law. Also on December 22, 2017, the SEC issued guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address certain fact patterns where the accounting for changes in tax laws or tax rates under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete upon issuance of an entity's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act is enacted. As permitted in SAB 118, in 2017, we have taken a measurement period approach and reported certain provisional amounts, based on reasonable estimates, for certain tax effects in which the accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete. Such provisional amounts are subject to adjustment during a limited measurement period, not to extend one year beyond the tax law enactment date, until the accounting under ASC 740 is complete. We have also made required supplemental disclosures in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements to accompany the provisional amounts, including the reasons for the incomplete accounting, the additional information or analysis that is needed, and other information relevant to why we were not able to complete the accounting required under ASC 740 in a timely manner. Stock-Based Compensation We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity incentive awards, including restricted stock units and restricted stock awards, employee stock purchase rights and stock options, based on the grant date fair value of the award. We calculate the fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock awards based on the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase rights granted to employees. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method and classify these amounts in the statements of operations based on the department to which the related employee reports. We calculate the weighted-average expected life of options using the simplified method as prescribed by guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This decision was based on the lack of historical data due to our limited number of stock option exercises under the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. We will continue to assess the appropriateness of the use of the simplified method as we develop a history of option exercises. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires inventory to be subsequently measured using the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. ASU 2015-11 was effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 and has been applied prospectively. The adoption of ASU No. 2015-11 in 2017 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation to simplify certain aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions associated with income taxes, classification as equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this update were effective for us for fiscal years 56 beginning with fiscal year 2017. The new guidance required, among other things, excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded on a prospective basis in the income statement in the provision for income taxes when awards vest or are settled. On the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits must be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity on either a prospective transition method or a retrospective transition method. Also, because excess tax benefits are no longer recognized in additional paid-in capital, the assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing earnings per share is amended to exclude the amount of excess tax benefits that would be recognized in additional paid-in capital. We adopted ASU No. 2016-09 during the quarter ended June 30, 2016, as previously described in our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on August 8, 2016. There was no cumulative effect on retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet upon adoption since we had a full valuation allowance against U.S. deferred tax assets at the time of adoption. We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures of share-based awards resulting in no impact to stock-based compensation expense, and we are also continuing to classify cash paid when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes in cash flows from financing activities. On the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits were classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity upon adoption on a prospective basis. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Prior accounting guidance prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party. The FASB decided that an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The amendments in this update should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, including interim reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted as of the first quarter of fiscal 2017, or the beginning of the annual reporting period only. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update beginning in the three months ended March 31, 2017. Due to a full valuation allowance on U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets at the time of adoption, the adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 . In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash . The amendments in this update require that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. When cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents are presented in more than one line item within the statement of financial position, an entity shall, for each period that a statement of financial position is presented, disclose the line items and amounts of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents disaggregated by the line item in which they appear within the statement of financial position, with a sum to the total amount of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in fiscal 2018, including interim periods within that year and should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update in 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 . In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business . The amendments in this update clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses and provides a screen to determine when a set is not a business. The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business. This screen reduces the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated. If the screen is not met, the amendments in this update (1) require that to be considered a business, a set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output and (2) remove the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace missing elements. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2018 and are required to be applied prospectively on or after the effective date. No disclosures are required at transition. Early application is allowed for transactions for which the acquisition date occurs before the issuance date or effective date of the amendments, only when the transaction has not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update for 2017 acquisitions. Such adoption 57 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff, or SEC Staff, issued guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address certain fact patterns where the accounting for changes in tax laws or tax rates under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete upon issuance of an entity's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act is enacted. As permitted in SAB 118, in 2017, we have taken a measurement period approach and reported certain provisional amounts, based on reasonable estimates, for certain tax effects in which the accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete. Such provisional amounts are subject to adjustment during a limited measurement period, not to extend one year beyond the tax law enactment date, until the accounting under ASC 740 is complete. We have also made required supplemental disclosures in the notes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements to accompany the provisional amounts, including the reasons for the incomplete accounting, the additional information or analysis that is needed, and other information relevant to why we were not able to complete the accounting required under ASC 740 in a timely manner. Adjustments to such reported provisional amounts could result in a material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position and results of operations in 2018. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides for new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance is effective for us beginning on January 1, 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We plan to apply the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of adoption. Adoption of the amendments in this guidance will accelerate the timing of our revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some distributors, which will change from the sell-through method to the sell-in method under this guidance. We will also be required to estimate the effects of pricing credits to its distributors from contractual price protection and unit rebate provisions, as well as stock rotation rights. We performed an assessment of the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. The impact of adoption of this new accounting standard for the year ending December 31, 2018 will vary depending on the level of inventory remaining at the adoption date and at the end of the year of adoption at distributors for which we currently recognize revenue on a sell-through basis, and therefore could have a material impact on our revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018. The impact to retained earnings as of January 1, 2018 is not material. As a result of applying the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings in the Company's consolidated financial statements for the cumulative effect of adoption, revenues that would have been recognized on a sell-through basis for the amount of deferred revenue and profit remaining as of the adoption date will not be recognized in earnings for any period. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . The amendments in this update include a requirement to measure equity investments (except equity method investments) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; previously changes in fair value were recognized in other comprehensive income. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Based on the Company's current corporate investment plans, the adoption of the amendments in this update are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the amendments in this update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations; however, adoption of the amendments in this update is expected to have a material impact on our 58 consolidated financial position, including an increase in assets and liabilities representing the present value of our future lease payments. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net ) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with the new revenue recognition standard. The adoption of the amendments in this update will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments, including, among other things, contingent consideration payments made following a business combination and proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims in the statement of cash flows. Cash payments not made soon after the acquisition date up to the amount of the contingent consideration liability recognized at the acquisition date should be classified as financing activities, with any excess payments classified as operating activities, whereas cash payments made soon after the acquisition date to settle the contingent consideration should be classified as investing activities. Cash proceeds received from settlement of insurance claims should be classified on the basis of the nature of the related losses. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. The impact of adoption of this guidance on our consolidated statement of cash flows will depend on the materiality and timing of any future contingent consideration payments and proceeds from settlement of insurance claims. In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-19, Technical Corrections and Improvements . The new standard is intended to provide clarity to the Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, or correct unintended application of the guidance that is not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities. ASU No. 2016-19 is effective for us in annual and interim fiscal reporting periods in 2018 with respect to the amendments that require transition guidance, and early adoption is permitted. All other amendments were effective on issuance. We do not believe that adoption of the amendments that require transition guidance will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The FASB also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting to provide clarity and reduce both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this update require us to account for the effects of a modification in a stock-based award unless the fair value, vesting conditions and classification of the modified award is the same as those of the original award immediately before the original award is modified. If the modification does not affect any of the inputs to the valuation technique that the entity uses to value the award, the entity is not required to estimate the value immediately before and after the modification. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update should 59 be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The adoption of this guidance is not expected have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) , which is intended to improve accounting for hedging activities by expanding and refining hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and aligning the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update should be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the expected impact of the amendments, but do not expect these to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. In September 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Leases (Topic 840), and Leases (Topic 842): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to the Staff Announcement at the July 20, 2017 EITF Meeting and Rescission of Prior SEC Staff Announcements and Observer Comments. The amendments in this update modify or supersede certain selected SEC paragraphs in the revenue and leases sections of the Codification and moves other paragraphs, upon adoption of ASC Topic 606 or ASC Topic 842. The amendments also provide updated guidance on the effective date of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , and ASC 842, Leases for certain entities that are considered public business entities only because their financial statements or financial information is required to be included in another entitys SEC filing, but does not change the effective dates for us and other public business entities. The amendments in this update should be applied upon adoption of ASC Topics 606 and 842, respectively. The adoption of this guidance is not expected have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, mixed-signal and high-performance analog integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our customers purchases products indirectly from us through distributors. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets and inventory step-ups to fair value; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. IPR&D Impairment Losses. IPR&D impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of acquired in-process research and development technology intangible assets during the period. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investment balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. 60 Income Tax Provision (Benefit). We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes, including certain provisional estimates in the year ended December 31, 2017 for certain tax effects of the Tax Act for which accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete, as permitted under SAB 118. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Net revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 51 41 48 Gross profit 49 59 52 Operating expenses: Research and development 27 25 28 Selling, general and administrative 25 17 26 IPR&D impairment losses 7 Restructuring charges 2 1 5 Total operating expenses 54 43 66 Income (loss) from operations (5 ) 16 (14 ) Total interest and other income (expense), net (3 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (8 ) 16 (14 ) Income tax provision (benefit) (6 ) Net income (loss) (2 )% 16 % (14 )% Net Revenue Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Connected home $ 288,610 $ 346,990 $ 294,251 (17 )% 18 % % of net revenue 69 % 89 % 98 % Infrastructure 71,779 37,411 4,075 92 % 818 % % of net revenue 17 % 10 % 1 % Industrial and multi-market 59,929 3,431 2,034 1,647 % 69 % % of net revenue 14 % 1 % 1 % Total net revenue $ 420,318 $ 387,832 $ 300,360 8 % 29 % Net revenue increased $32.5 million to $420.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $387.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $58.4 million was primarily driven by the anticipated declines in Entropic's satellite analog channel-stacking solutions for the satellite pay-TV market and inclusion of its legacy video SoC revenue, which declined significantly year-over-year, which were partially offset by increased cable modem and data gateway sales. We expect year-over-year revenue declines in the legacy video SoC and satellite analog channel-stacking products to no longer be significant moving forward, as these products are near the end of their life cycles. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $34.4 million primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from our wireless infrastructure backhaul business, which we acquired from Broadcom in July 2016, and from power management and data encryption products acquired from Exar in May 2017, which were partially offset by year-over-year declines in our high-speed interconnect products serving the Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-outs. The increase in industrial and multi-market revenue of $56.5 million was primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from Exar. 61 Net revenue increased $87.5 million to $387.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $300.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase in connected home net revenue of $52.7 million was primarily driven by increased cable and satellite RF receivers, digital channel-stacking, and both satellite and cable MoCA product shipments. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $33.3 million was primarily driven by the continued ramp of high-speed interconnect product shipments as well as contributions from our wireless access acquisition starting in May 2016 and our wireless backhaul acquisition starting in July 2016. The increase in industrial and multi-market revenues of $1.4 million was primarily related to a modest increase in products serving multi-market applications. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 212,355 $ 157,842 $ 144,937 35 % 9 % % of net revenue 51 % 41 % 48 % Gross profit 207,963 229,990 155,423 (10 )% 48 % % of net revenue 49 % 59 % 52 % Cost of net revenue increased $54.5 million to $212.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $157.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily driven by increased inventory step-up amortization of $19.9 million and acquired intangible amortization of $16.8 million primarily related to recent acquisitions of Exar in May 2017, the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and the wireless infrastructure businesses acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016, respectively, and higher sales. The decrease in gross profit percentage for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 , was due to a decrease in sales of higher margin products and the previously mentioned increase in amortization of inventory step-up and intangible amortization. Cost of net revenue increased $12.9 million to $157.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $144.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . This increase was primarily driven by higher sales and a $4.3 million increase in amortization of purchased intangible assets costs related to our wireless infrastructure access and backhaul acquisitions during 2016, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of inventory step-up of $8.6 million and reductions in our average manufacturing costs. The increase in gross profit percentages for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 , was due to an increase in sales of higher margin products and the previously mentioned reduction in amortization of inventory step-up. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 112,279 $ 97,745 $ 85,405 15 % 14 % % of net revenue 27 % 25 % 28 % Research and development expense increased $14.5 million to $112.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 from $97.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increases in payroll-related expense of $11.2 million, computer-aided design tools expense of $2.1 million, and depreciation expense of $1.9 million related to our recent acquisitions of Exar in May 2017, the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and the wireless infrastructure businesses acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016. These increases were partially offset by lower prototype expenses of $1.2 million due to timing of projects. 62 Research and development expense increased $12.3 million to $97.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $85.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to increases in headcount-related expense and occupancy expense of $9.4 million related to our acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure access business from Microsemi, and the wireless infrastructure backhaul business from Broadcom. Year-on-year increases in prototype expense, design tools expense, and depreciation expense of $3.2 million were primarily due to a higher number of projects. We expect our research and development expenses to increase as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 105,831 $ 64,454 $ 77,981 64 % (17 )% % of net revenue 25 % 17 % 26 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased $41.4 million to $105.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $64.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in intangible amortization expense of $21.9 million, payroll-related expenses of $9.7 million, professional fees of $7.8 million and occupancy expenses of $1.2 million related to our merger and acquisition activities from our recent acquisitions of Exar Corporation in May 2017, the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and the wireless infrastructure businesses acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $13.5 million to $64.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as compared to $78.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $18.0 million in intangible amortization expense related to acquired product backlog and a decrease in legal expense of $3.0 million related to the Entropic acquisition in the prior year. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in headcount-related expense of $3.5 million due to higher average full-time-equivalent headcount compared to prior year as a result of the Entropic acquisition. Commission expense increased $1.0 million due to higher sales and outside services, accounting expense, travel expense, and other expenses increased by $2.9 million. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to decrease or remain flat in the near-term; however, our expenses may increase in the future when we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets. IPR&D Impairment Losses Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) IPR&D impairment losses $ 2,000 $ 1,300 $ 21,600 54% (94)% % of net revenue % % 7 % IPR&D impairment losses increased $0.7 million to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . IPR&D impairment losses decreased $20.3 million to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to $21.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . IPR&D impairment losses in 2017 consisted of acquired IPR&D technology of Exar Corporation. IPR&D impairment losses in 2016 consisted of acquired IPR&D technology of the wireless infrastructure access business. IPR&D impairment losses in 2015 consisted of acquired IPR&D technology of Physpeed and Entropic. 63 Restructuring charges Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 9,524 $ 3,432 $ 14,086 178% (76)% % of net revenue 2 % 1 % 5 % Restructuring charges increased $6.1 million to $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Restructuring charges decreased $10.7 million to $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 , compared to $14.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Restructuring charges in 2017 primarily consisted of $5.1 million of incremental stock-based compensation from the acceleration of certain stock-based awards we assumed from Exar Corporation due to change in control provisions upon termination or diminution of authority of former Exar executives, other severance-related charges of $3.2 million , and lease restructuring charges of $1.0 million related to exiting certain redundant facilities. Restructuring charges in 2016 consisted of employee severance and stock compensation expenses of $1.0 million , lease and leasehold impairment charges of $2.3 million , and contract restructuring of $0.1 million . Lease restructuring charges in 2016 primarily related to adjustments to the estimates of net present value of the remaining lease obligation for actual sublease income and period costs associated with certain vacated facilities, including commissions to brokers involved in subleasing property, under lease arrangements assumed in connection with the Entropic acquisition, and exiting certain other leased facilities. Restructuring charges in 2015 consisted of employee severance and stock compensation expenses of $5.5 million , lease and leasehold impairment charges of $8.2 million , and contract restructuring of $0.4 million that were primarily related to eliminating redundant positions and exiting Entropic facilities. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (12,327 ) $ 631 $ 743 (2,054 )% (15 )% % of net revenue (3 )% % % Interest and other income (expense), net reversed by $13.0 million from the year ended December 31, 2016 , becoming a net expense of $12.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily due to interest expense of $10.4 million related to interest charges on debt outstanding under the Exar acquisition term loan facility during 2017, as well as increases in other expenses related to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions as a result of increased activities from existing and recently acquired foreign subsidiaries. Interest and other income (expense), net decreased $0.1 million to $0.6 million of income for the year ended December 31, 2016 from $0.7 million of income for the year ended December 31, 2015 due to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions, partially offset by an increase in interest income due to higher average cash and investment balances held during 2016. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Years Ended December 31, % Change 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 (dollars in thousands) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (24,811 ) $ 2,398 $ (575 ) (1,135 )% (517 )% % of pre-tax income (loss) 73 % 4 % 1 % The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $24.8 million or approximately 73% of pre-tax loss compared to an income tax provision of $2.4 million or approximately 4% of pre-tax income for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The income tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2015 was $0.6 million or approximately 1% of pre-tax loss . 64 On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, which included the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Additionally, in April 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which reduced our Singapore corporate tax rate from 17% to a concessionary rate as described in more detail below. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily related to the release of the federal valuation allowance in 2017, partially offset by certain discrete tax effects related to initial intercompany royalties from our Singapore subsidiary to our U.S. parent and the impacts of reductions in our U.S. federal corporate tax rates under the Tax Act and reductions to our foreign corporate tax rates on our deferred income taxes in Singapore as a result of the concessionary income tax rates in Singapore. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 includes provisional estimates for certain tax effects of the Tax Act for which accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete. Provisional amounts related to the Tax Act are subject to adjustment during a one year measurement period and accordingly, such adjustments could have a material impact on our income tax provision (benefit) for 2018. Of the federal valuation allowance of $61.6 million as of December 31, 2016, we released $51.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 based upon our review of all available positive and negative evidence. Additionally, our federal valuation allowance has also been reduced as a result of the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, as of December 31, 2017, we concluded that a valuation allowance should continue to be recorded against our state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and deferred tax assets in certain foreign jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We are closely assessing the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. In the future, we could remove some or all of the valuation allowance against our state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets if we meet the more-likely-than-not threshold at such time. In April 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the period ending 2018. The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily related to federal alternative minimum tax due to our limitation on use of net operating losses, credit carryforwards, state income taxes, and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Certain significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter during which they occur and can be a source of variability in the effective tax rates from quarter to quarter. During 2016, we adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation, which resulted in the recognition of net excess tax benefits on share-based awards within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statement of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the impact of including net excess tax benefits was to reduce the provision for income taxes by $8.3 million in the consolidated statement of operations. The benefit for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily related to the release of valuation allowance in connection with the Entropic and Physpeed acquisitions, respectively, partially offset by income taxes in foreign jurisdictions and accruals for tax contingencies. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $71.9 million , restricted cash of $2.5 million , and net accounts receivable of $66.1 million . Additionally, as of December 31, 2017 , our working capital was $124.9 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory, and the acquisition of businesses, property and equipment and intangible assets. We also use cash to pay down outstanding debt. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued 65 expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, and amortization of step-ups of acquired inventory to fair value. Cash used to fund acquisitions of businesses and other capital purchases is included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash used to pay down outstanding debt is included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the growth in amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. In 2017, we also received net proceeds from borrowings associated with the Exar acquisition which are included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The credit agreement permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. We have not requested any incremental loans to date. Following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments for the periods indicated: December 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Working capital $ 124,918 $ 158,304 Cash and cash equivalents $ 71,872 $ 81,086 Short-term restricted cash 1,476 614 Long-term restricted cash 1,064 1,196 Short-term investments 47,918 Long-term investments 5,991 Total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments $ 74,412 $ 136,805 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 75,064 $ 117,317 $ 55,041 Net cash used in investing activities (432,151 ) (101,313 ) (11,059 ) Net cash provided by (used in) by financing activities 347,021 (670 ) 4,003 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 1,582 (394 ) (725 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (8,484 ) $ 14,940 $ 47,260 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $75.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of $89.8 million in non-cash expenses, partially offset by net loss of $9.2 million and $5.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, respectively. Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $66.7 million , stock-based compensation of $32.7 million , amortization of step-up to fair value of acquired inventory of $25.6 million , loss on foreign currency of $2.2 million , and impairment charges on intangible assets of $2.0 million , partially offset by deferred income taxes of $31.8 million and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $8.6 million . 66 Net cash provided by operating activities was $117.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of net income of $61.3 million , $48.2 million in non-cash operating expenses, and $7.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $26.7 million , stock-based compensation of $21.8 million , amortization of step-up to fair value of acquired inventory of $5.6 million , impairment charges on intangible assets of $1.3 million , and impairment and restructuring on leases of $0.4 million , partially offset by excess tax benefits on stock-based award of $8.3 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $55.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of $103.1 million in non-cash operating expenses, partially offset by a net loss of $42.3 million and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $5.7 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $40.6 million , impairment charges on intangible assets of $21.6 million , stock based compensation of $19.3 million , amortization of inventory step up of $14.2 million , and impairment and restructuring on leases of $8.2 million , partially offset by deferred income taxes of $1.9 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $432.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $452.3 million in cash used in the acquisition of Exar, net of cash acquired, $21.0 million in cash used in the acquisition of the G.hn business, $30.6 million in purchases of securities, $ 7.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, and $5.4 million in purchases of intangible assets, partially offset by $84.5 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $101.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $101.0 million cash used in our acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure access and backhaul businesses, $90.3 million in purchases of securities, and $8.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $98.9 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $11.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $73.4 million in purchases of securities, $3.6 million used in our acquisition of Entropic, net of cash acquired, and $3.0 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $69.0 million in maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $347.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $416.8 million in net proceeds from borrowings under a term loan we entered in connection with the acquisition of Exar and $12.1 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by $70.0 million in aggregate prepayments of principal on outstanding debt and $11.5 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $7.3 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by $6.6 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. Net cash provided by financing activities was $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $10.0 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by $5.1 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. 67 We believe that our $71.9 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2017 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. On April 4, 2017, we used $21.0 million of cash to purchase the G.hn business of Marvell. On May 12, 2017, we paid aggregate cash consideration of $688.1 million, including $12.7 million of cash paid to settle certain stock-based awards that were not assumed by MaxLinear, in the acquisition and merger of Exar. We funded the transaction with cash from the balance sheet of the combined companies and the net proceeds of approximately $416.8 million from $425.0 million of transaction debt. We have repaid $70.0 million of Exar-related transaction debt to date. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement or new lenders. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin. In 2016, we used we used an aggregate of $101.0 million of cash to purchase the wireless infrastructure access and backhaul businesses of Microsemi and Broadcom, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2017, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the July 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2017, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products, and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of December 31, 2017 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. 68 Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2017 , future minimum payments under long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations are as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Long-term debt $ 355,000 $ $ $ $ 355,000 Operating lease obligations 42,464 9,155 18,402 14,149 758 Inventory purchase obligations 34,979 34,979 Other obligations 19,330 7,758 11,542 30 Total $ 451,773 $ 51,892 $ 29,944 $ 14,179 $ 355,758 Other obligations consist of contractual payments due for software licenses.