ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio-frequency, or RF, high-performance analog, and mixed-signal communications systems-on-chip solutions for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a broadband communication system. In most cases, these products are designed on a single silicon-die, using standard digital CMOS processes and conventional packaging technologies. We believe this enables our solutions to achieve superior power, performance, and cost advantages relative to our industry competition. Our customers include electronics distributors, module makers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and original design manufacturers (ODMs), who incorporate our products in a wide range of electronic devices. Examples of such end market electronic devices incorporating our products include cable DOCSIS broadband modems and gateways; wireline connectivity devices for in-home networking applications; RF transceivers and modems for wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure; fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport networks; video set-top boxes and gateways; hybrid analog and digital televisions, direct broadcast satellite outdoor and indoor units; and power management and interface products used in these and a range of other markets. We combine our high-performance RF and mixed-signal semiconductor design skills with our expertise in digital communications systems, software, high-performance analog, and embedded systems to provide highly integrated semiconductor devices and platform-level solutions that are manufactured using a range of semiconductor manufacturing processes, including low-cost complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, process technology, Silicon Germanium, Gallium Arsenide, BiCMOS and Indium Phosphide process technologies. Our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog and digital signal processing functionality in the same integrated circuit. As a result, our solutions have high levels of functional integration and performance, small silicon die size, and low power consumption. Moreover, with our acquisition of Exar Corporation in 2017, we are uniquely positioned to offer customers a combination of proprietary CMOS-based radio system architectures that provide the benefits of superior RF system performance, along with high-performance analog interface and power management solutions that enable shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility, and low system cost across a wide range of broadband communications, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal year 2006 to $420.3 million in fiscal year 2017 . In the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , revenues were $297.4 million . In fiscal year 2017 and in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital pay-TV applications, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range 34 Table of Contents of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the smartphone market, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 81% and 86% of our net revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 81% and 90% of our net revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Although a large percentage of our products are shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. A growing portion of our business consists of products, specifically our high-speed optical interconnect products, that are shipped to, and are ultimately consumed in Asian markets, with the majority of these products being purchased by end customers in China. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the three months ended September 30, 2018 , although none of our customers individually accounted for 10% or more of our net revenue, our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 69% of our net revenue. In the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , one of our customers, Arris Group, Inc., or Arris, accounted for 21% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 63% of our net revenue. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , Arris accounted for 26% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 58% of our net revenue. In the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , Arris accounted for 27% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 60% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. On March 29, 2017, each share of our then outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock and shares underlying our then outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and restricted stock awards automatically converted into a single class of our common stock or rights to receive shares of a single class of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The conversion had no impact on the total number of issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock; the Class A shares and Class B shares converted into an equivalent number of shares of our common stock. In addition, the conversion did not increase the total number of authorized shares of our common stock, which prior to the conversion was, and remains, 550,000,000 shares. However, our total number of authorized shares of capital stock was reduced from 1,575,000,000 to 1,509,554,147, to account for the retirement of the Class A shares and Class B shares that were outstanding at the time of the conversion. Following the conversion, our authorized capital stock includes 441,123,947 Class A shares and 493,430,200 Class B shares, which represents Class A shares and Class B shares that were authorized but unissued at the time of the conversion. No additional Class A shares or Class B shares will be issued following the conversion. 35 Table of Contents Following the conversion, each share of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share and otherwise has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences as the Class A common stock prior to the conversion. In addition, holders of our common stock vote as a single class of stock on any matter that is submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Prior to the conversion, the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock had identical voting rights, except that holders of Class A common stock were entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B common stock were entitled to ten votes per share with respect to transactions that would result in a change of control of our company or that relate to our equity incentive plans. In addition, holders of Class B common stock had the exclusive right to elect two members of our Board of Directors, each referred to as a Class B Director. The shares of our Class B common stock were not publicly traded. Each share of our Class B common stock was convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converted upon sale or other transfer. On April 4, 2017, we consummated the transactions contemplated by a share and asset acquisition agreement with Marvell Semiconductor Inc., or Marvell, to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of Marvells G.hn business, including its Spain legal entity, for aggregate cash consideration of $21.0 million. We also hired certain employees of the G.hn business outside of Spain and assumed employment obligations of the Spanish entity we acquired, which is now a subsidiary of MaxLinear. The assets acquired include, among other things, patents and other intellectual property, a workforce-in-place and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees who joined MaxLinear and its subsidiaries as a result of the transaction. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities, together with the employees, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations . We integrated the acquired assets and employees into our existing business. In April 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event the Company does not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the year ending December 31, 2018. On May 12, 2017, pursuant to the March 28, 2017 Agreement and Plan of Merger, Eagle Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear, merged with and into Exar Corporation, or Exar, with Exar surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of MaxLinear. Under this Agreement and Plan of Merger, we agreed to acquire Exar's outstanding common stock for $13.00 per share in cash. We also assumed certain of Exar's stock-based awards in the merger. We paid aggregate cash consideration of $688.1 million, including $12.7 million of cash paid to settle certain stock-based awards that were not assumed by us in the merger. We funded the transaction with cash from the balance sheet of the combined companies, including $235.8 million of cash from Exar, and the net proceeds of approximately $416.8 million under a secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $425.0 million. The facility is available (i) to finance the Merger, refinance certain existing indebtedness of Exar and its subsidiaries, and fund all related transactions, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith and (iii) for working capital and general corporate purposes. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and the term loans bear interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, plus a fixed applicable margin. In November 2017, to hedge a substantial portion of our interest rate risk, we entered into a fixed-for-floating interest rate swap agreement with an amortizing notional amount to swap a substantial portion of our variable rate LIBOR interest payments under the outstanding term loans for fixed interest payments bearing an interest rate of 1.74685%. Our outstanding debt is still subject to a 2.5% fixed applicable margin during the term of the loan. As a result of entering the swap, the interest rate on a substantial portion of our long-term debt is effectively fixed at approximately 4.25%. Exar is a designer and developer of high-performance analog mixed-signal integrated circuits and sub-system solutions. The merger significantly furthers our strategic goals of increasing revenue scale, diversifying revenues by end customers and addressable markets, and expanding our analog and mixed-signal footprint on existing tier-one customer platforms. Exar adds a diverse portfolio of high-performance analog and mixed-signal products constituting power management and interface technologies that are ubiquitous functions in wireless and wireline communications infrastructure, broadband access, industrial, enterprise networking, and automotive platforms. We intend to leverage combined technological expertise, cross-selling opportunities and distribution channels to significantly expand our serviceable addressable market. For a discussion of specific risks and uncertainties that could affect our ability to achieve these and other strategic objectives of our acquisitions, please refer to Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subsection captioned Risks Relating to Our Recent Acquisitions. 36 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that accounting policies we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. On January 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , or ASC 606, and accordingly, modified our policy on revenue recognition as stated below . The primary impact of adopting ASC 606 for MaxLinear was to accelerate the timing of our revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some of our distributors, which changed from recognition upon the sale to our distributors' end customers, or the sell-through method, to recognition upon our sale to the distributor, or the sell-in method. We are now also required to estimate the effects of pricing credits to our distributors from contractual price protection and unit rebate provisions, as well as stock rotation rights and record such estimated credits upon our sale to the distributor. There have been no other material changes to our critical accounting policies during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . For a summary of our other critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 20, 2018, or our Annual Report. Revenue Recognition Substantially all of our revenue is generated from sales of our integrated circuits to electronics distributors, module makers, OEMs, and ODMs under individual customer purchase orders, some of which have underlying master sales agreements that specify terms governing the product sales. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 and recognize revenue at the point in time when control of the products is transferred to the customer at the estimated net consideration for which collection is probable, taking into account our customer's rights to price protection, other pricing credits, unit rebates, and rights to return unsold product. Transfer of control occurs either when products are shipped to or received by the distributor or direct customer, based on the terms of the specific agreement with the customer, if we have a present right to payment and transfer of legal title and the risks and rewards of ownership to the customer has occurred. For most of our product sales, transfer of control occurs upon shipment to our distributor or direct customer. In assessing whether collection of consideration from a customer is probable, the we consider the customer's ability and intention to pay that amount of consideration when it is due. Payment of invoices is due as specified in the underlying customer agreement, typically 30 days from the invoice date, which occurs on the date of transfer of control of the products to the customer. Since payment terms are less than a year, we have elected the practical expedient and do not assess whether a customer contract has a significant financing component. A five-step approach is applied in the recognition of revenue under ASC 606: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation. We applied ASC 606 to our customer contracts that were not completed before the January 1, 2018 adoption date. Customer purchase orders plus the underlying master sales agreements are considered to be contracts with the customer for purposes of applying the five-step approach under ASC 606. Pricing adjustments and estimates of returns under contractual stock rotation rights are treated as variable consideration for purposes of determining the transaction price, and are estimated at the time control transfers using the expected value method based on our analysis of actual price adjustment claims by distributors and product and historical return rates, and then reassessed at the end of each reporting period. We also consider whether any variable consideration is constrained, since such 37 Table of Contents amounts for which it is probable that a significant reversal will occur when the contingency is subsequently resolved are required to be excluded from revenues. Price adjustments are finalized at the time the products are sold through to the end customer and the distributor or end customer submits a claim to reduce the sale price to a pre-approved net price. Stock rotation allowances are capped at a fixed percentage of our sales to a distributor for a period of time, up to six months, as specified in the individual distributor contract. If our current estimates of such credits and rights are materially inaccurate, it may result in adjustments that affect future revenues and gross profits. Returns under our general assurance warranty of products for a period of one to three years have not been material and warranty-related services are not considered a separate performance obligation under the customer contracts. Most of our customers resell our product as part of their product and thus are tax-exempt, however to the extent we collect and remit taxes on product sales from customers, we have elected to exclude from the measurement of transaction price such taxes. Each distinct promise to transfer products is considered to be an identified performance obligation for which revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the products to the customer. Although customers may place orders for products to be delivered on multiple dates that may be in different quarterly reporting periods, all of the orders are scheduled within one year from the order date. We have opted to not disclose the portion of revenues allocated to partially unsatisfied performance obligations, which represent products to be shipped within 12 months under open customer purchase orders, at the end of the current reporting period as allowed under ASC 606. We have also elected to record sales commissions when incurred, pursuant to the practical expedient under ASC 340, as the period over which the sales commission asset that would have been recognized is less than one year. Customer contract liabilities consist of obligations to deliver rebates to customers in the form of units of products, which are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Other obligations to customers consist of estimates of price protection rights offered to our end customers, which are included in accrued price protection liability in the consolidated balance sheets, as well as price adjustments expected to be claimed by the distributor upon sell-through of the products to their customers, and amounts expected to be returned by distributors under stock rotation rights, which are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We also record a right of return asset consist of amounts representing the products we expect to receive from customers in returns, which is included in inventory in the consolidated balance sheets, and is typically settled within six months of transfer of control to the customer, or the period over which stock rotation rights are based. Upon lapse of the time period for stock rotations, or the contractual end to price protection and rebate programs, which is approximately one to two years, and when we believe unclaimed amounts are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid, any remaining asset or liability is derecognized by an offsetting entry to cost of net revenue and net revenue. For additional disclosures regarding contract liabilities and other obligations to customers, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. We assess customer accounts receivable and contract assets for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10-35. 38 Table of Contents The following tables present the amounts by which each financial statement line item was affected as a result of applying ASC 606: Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Amounts under Legacy GAAP Impact of Adoption As reported Amounts under Legacy GAAP Impact of Adoption As reported Consolidated statement of operations: (in thousands, except per share amounts) Net revenue $ 85,106 $ (96 ) $ 85,010 $ 286,475 $ 10,895 $ 297,370 Cost of net revenue 41,182 (48 ) 41,134 130,782 3,714 134,496 Gross profit 43,924 (48 ) 43,876 155,693 7,181 162,874 Loss from operations (12,520 ) (48 ) (12,568 ) (15,566 ) 7,181 (8,385 ) Loss before income taxes (15,937 ) (48 ) (15,985 ) (26,380 ) 7,181 (19,199 ) Income tax provision (benefit) (2,040 ) (10 ) (2,050 ) 5,803 1,508 7,311 Net loss (13,897 ) (38 ) (13,935 ) (32,183 ) 5,673 (26,510 ) Basic loss per share (0.20 ) (0.20 ) (0.47 ) 0.08 (0.39 ) Diluted loss per share (0.20 ) (0.20 ) (0.47 ) 0.08 (0.39 ) September 30, 2018 Amounts under Legacy GAAP Impact of Adoption As reported (in thousands) Consolidated balance sheet: Accounts receivable $ 58,633 $ $ 58,633 Inventory 41,561 196 41,757 Total current assets 174,057 196 174,253 Total assets 741,948 196 742,144 Deferred revenue and deferred profit 15,240 (15,240 ) Accrued liabilities and other current liabilities 19,351 8,129 27,480 Total current liabilities 73,575 (7,111 ) 66,464 Total liabilities 356,861 (7,111 ) 349,750 Accumulated deficit (101,248 ) 7,307 (93,941 ) Total stockholders' equity 385,087 7,307 392,394 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 741,948 196 742,144 The impacts of adopting ASC 606 as shown above were primarily related to the acceleration of the timing of the Companys revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some of its distributors, which changed from sale to the distributors' end customers, or the sell-through method, to recognition upon the Company's sale to the distributor, or the sell-in method. Revenues from sales through our distributors accounted for 46% and 41% of net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Revenues from sales through our distributors accounted for 41% and 31% of net revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which provides for new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard replaced all prior U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminated all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance became effective for MaxLinear on January 1, 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We applied the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to 39 Table of Contents accumulated deficit for the cumulative effect of adoption. Adoption of the amendments in this guidance accelerated the timing of our revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some distributors, which changed from the sell-through method to the sell-in method under this guidance. We are also required to estimate the effects of pricing credits to our distributors from contractual price protection and unit rebate provisions, as well as stock rotation rights. We have performed an assessment of the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. The impact of adoption of this new accounting standard for the year ending December 31, 2018 will vary depending on the level of inventory remaining at December 31, 2018 at distributors for which we previously recognized revenue on a sell-through basis, and therefore could have a material impact on our revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018. The impact to retained earnings as of January 1, 2018 is not material. As a result of applying the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings in our consolidated financial statements for the cumulative effect of adoption, revenues that would have been recognized on a sell-through basis for the amount of deferred revenue and profit remaining as of the adoption date will not be recognized in earnings for any period. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . The amendments in this update include, among other things, a requirement to (1) measure equity investments (except equity method investments) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, with an option to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus any impairment plus or minus any changes resulting from observable price changes; previously changes in fair value were recognized in other comprehensive income, and (2) separately present financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statement. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net ) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with and applied on the same basis as the new revenue recognition standard. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 . In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments, including, among other things, contingent consideration payments made following a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims in the statement of cash flows, and debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs. Cash payments not made soon after the acquisition date up to the amount of the contingent consideration liability recognized at the acquisition date should be classified as financing activities and any excess payments should be classified as operating activities, whereas cash payments made soon after the acquisition date to settle the contingent consideration should be classified as investing activities and cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs should be classified as financing activities. Cash proceeds received from settlement of insurance claims should be classified on the basis of the nature of the related losses. The amendments in this update should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented, unless impracticable, and if impracticable, would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of cash flows for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 . In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting to provide clarity and reduce both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this update require us to account for the effects of a modification in a stock-based award unless the fair value, vesting conditions and classification of the modified award is the same as those of the original award 40 Table of Contents immediately before the original award is modified. If the modification does not affect any of the inputs to the valuation technique that the entity uses to value the award, the entity is not required to estimate the value immediately before and after the modification. The amendments in this update were effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update are applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. Since we have not had any modifications to stock-based awards that do not affect the inputs into the Black Scholes fair value calculation, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff, or SEC Staff, issued guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address certain fact patterns where the accounting for changes in tax laws or tax rates under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete upon issuance of an entity's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act is enacted. As permitted in SAB 118, in 2017, we took a measurement period approach and reported certain provisional amounts, based on reasonable estimates, for certain tax effects in which the accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete. Such provisional amounts are subject to adjustment during a limited measurement period, not to extend one year beyond the tax law enactment date, until the accounting under ASC 740 is complete. We also made required supplemental disclosures in the notes to the 2017 consolidated financial statements to accompany the provisional amounts, including the reasons for the incomplete accounting, the additional information or analysis that is needed, and other information relevant to why we were not able to complete the accounting required under ASC 740 in a timely manner. For adjustments to previously reported provisional amounts made in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , refer to Note 10 . Additional adjustments to such reported provisional amounts could result in a material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position and results of operations in 2018. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . The amendments in this update allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in fiscal 2019, including interim periods. Early adoption is permitted. The amendments should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period or periods in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Act is recognized. We adopted the amendments in this update in the three months ended March 31, 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 . In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 . The amendments in this update amend the SEC paragraphs included in Topic 740 to be consistent with the guidance in SAB 118, which we adopted in the three months ended December 31, 2017, as described above. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, to expand the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. As a result, the accounting for share-based payment awards to nonemployees and employees will be substantially aligned by eliminating the need to measure nonemployee share-based awards at fair value on the earlier of performance commitment date or date performance is complete. Both employee and nonemployee share-based awards are now measured at grant-date fair value. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted, but no earlier than our adoption of Topic 606. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update as of July 1, 2018, with the cumulative effect of the change recorded against accumulated deficit as of July 1, 2018. As our nonemployee share-based awards are not significant, such adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated accumulated deficit as of July 1, 2018. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases 41 Table of Contents generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We intend to make this election. Also, in July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements , to provide an additional transition method. An entity can now elect not to present comparative financial information under Topic 842 if it recognizes a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings upon adoption. We plan to elect this transition option in our adoption of Topic 842. The amendments in these updates are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We have performed a preliminary assessment of the impact of the adoption of the amendments in this update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for our leases, which primarily consist of facility leases. Based on that assessment, we have determined that the right-of-use asset and lease liability, which is measured at the present value of future lease payments, are expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position. In addition, through the adoption date, we will complete the inventory of our leases and finalize our assessment of the impact of the adoption of Topic 842. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-09, Codification Improvements , to clarify the Codification and prevent any unintended applications of guidance. An amendment to ASC 718-740, CompensationStock CompensationIncome Taxes , clarifies that excess tax benefits should be recognized in the period in which the amount of the deduction is determined. The transition and effective date guidance is based on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. The amendment identified above is effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2019. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases , to clarify on how to apply certain aspects of the new leases standard. The amendments in this update, among other things, better articulates the requirement for a lessee's reassessment of lease classification as of the effective date of a modification, clarifies that a change to an index or rate for variable lease payments does not constitute a resolution of a contingency that would result in the remeasurement of lease payments, and requires entities that apply Topic 842 retrospectively to each reporting period and do not adopt the practical expedients to write off any prior unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition under Topic 842 to equity. The amendments have the same effective date and transition requirements as the new lease standard summarized above. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as stated above. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement , to improve the fair value measurement reporting of financial instruments. The amendments in this update require, among other things, added disclosure of the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update eliminate, among other things, disclosure of the reasons for and amounts of transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and an entity's valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. Retrospective application is required for all amendments in this updated except the added disclosures, which should be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Intangibles- Goodwill and OtherInternal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract , to provide additional guidance on the accounting for costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts. The amendments in this update require the capitalization of implementation costs during the application 42 Table of Contents development stage of such hosting arrangements and amortization of the expense over the term of the arrangement including any option to extend reasonably certain to be exercised or option to terminate reasonably certain not to be exercised. Capitalized implementation costs and amortization thereof are also required to be classified in the same line item in the statements of financial position, operations and cash flows associated with the hosting service fees. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. We may select retrospective or prospective application to all implementation costs incurred after the adoption date. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our unaudited consolidated statements of operations . Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, analog and mixed signal integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our sales are to distributors, who then resell our products. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets and inventory step-ups to fair value; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Impairment Losses. Impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring Charges . Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Income Tax Provision (Benefit). We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income taxes for financial statement purposes, including certain provisional estimates in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 for certain tax effects of the Tax Act for which accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete, as permitted under SAB 118. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. 43 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our unaudited consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 48 54 45 49 Gross profit 52 46 55 51 Operating expenses: Research and development 34 26 30 27 Selling, general and administrative 29 26 26 26 Impairment losses 3 2 1 1 Restructuring charges 2 1 3 Total operating expenses 66 55 58 56 Loss from operations (15 ) (9 ) (3 ) (5 ) Interest and other expense, net (4 ) (4 ) (4 ) (2 ) Loss before income taxes (19 ) (14 ) (6 ) (8 ) Income tax provision (benefit) (2 ) (6 ) 2 (11 ) Net income (loss) (16 )% (8 )% (9 )% 3 % Net Revenue Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 (1) $ Change % Change 2018 2017 (1) $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Connected home $ 42,026 $ 65,621 $ (23,595 ) (36 )% $ 164,201 $ 222,074 $ (57,873 ) (26 )% % of net revenue 49 % 58 % 55 % 72 % Infrastructure 19,733 23,714 (3,981 ) (17 )% 59,708 50,666 9,042 18 % % of net revenue 23 % 21 % 20 % 17 % Industrial and multi-market 23,251 24,246 (995 ) (4 )% 73,461 33,857 39,604 117 % % of net revenue 27 % 21 % 25 % 11 % Total net revenue $ 85,010 $ 113,581 $ (28,571 ) (25 %) $ 297,370 $ 306,597 $ (9,227 ) (3 )% ___________ (1) Due to the adoption of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method, prior period amounts have not been adjusted to reflect the change to recognize certain distributor sales upon sale to the distributor, or the sell-in method, from recognition upon the Company's sale to the distributors' end customers, or the sell-through method, which required the deferral of revenue and profit on such distributor sales. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section above for further details regarding the impact of this change in accounting. Net revenue decreased $28.6 million to $85.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $113.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $23.6 million was primarily driven by a slowdown in the cable market owing to the market transition from DOCSIS 3.0 to DOCSIS 3.1 and related customer inventory reductions, which was partially offset by increased G.hn and satellite product shipments. Infrastructure revenue decreased $4.0 million , primarily related to declines in our high-speed interconnect products serving Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-outs and last-mile broadband access deployments in China. The decrease in industrial and multi-market net revenue of $1.0 million was primarily related to declines in touch module shipments serving the handset market. Net revenue decreased $9.2 million to $297.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 from $306.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $57.9 million was driven by the anticipated declines from legacy product shipments used in satellite, terrestrial, and video SoC applications, as well as a slowdown in the cable market owing to the market transition from DOCSIS 3.0 to DOCSIS 3.1 and related customer inventory reductions, partially offset by increased G.hn product shipments. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $9.0 million was 44 Table of Contents primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from our power management and data encryption products acquired from Exar in May 2017 and increased wireless infrastructure shipments, which were partially offset by declines in our high-speed interconnect products serving the Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-outs and last-mile broadband access deployments in China. The increase in industrial and multi-market net revenue of $39.6 million was related to the incremental contribution of shipments from Exar. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 (1) $ Change % Change 2018 2017 (1) $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 41,134 $ 61,739 $ (20,605 ) (33 )% $ 134,496 $ 150,727 (16,231 ) (11 )% % of net revenue 48 % 54 % 45 % 49 % Gross profit 43,876 51,842 (7,966 ) (15 )% 162,874 155,870 7,004 4 % % of net revenue 52 % 46 % 55 % 51 % ___________ (1) Due to the adoption of ASC 606 using the modified retrospective method, prior period amounts have not been adjusted to reflect the change to recognize cost of net revenue related to certain distributor sales upon sale to the distributor, or the sell-in method, from recognition upon the Company's sale to the distributors' end customers, or the sell-through method, which required the deferral of revenue and profit on such distributor sales. Refer to Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section above for further details regarding the impact of this change in accounting. Cost of net revenue decreased $20.6 million to $41.1 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 from $61.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales and a decrease in amortization of inventory step-up of $10.2 million primarily related to the acquisition of Exar in May 2017 and the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, partially offset by an increase in acquired intangible amortization of $1.1 million primarily related to these acquisitions. The gross profit percentage increased to 52% in the three months ended September 30, 2018 , as compared to 46% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to the decrease in acquired inventory step-up amortization. Cost of net revenue decreased $16.2 million from $150.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $134.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales and a decrease in amortization step-up of $15.8 million primarily related to recent acquisitions of Exar in May 2017 and the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, partially offset by an increase in acquired intangible amortization of $10.1 million primarily related to these acquisitions. The gross profit percentage increased to 55% in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , as compared to 51% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to the decrease in acquired inventory step-up amortization. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 29,047 $ 29,270 $ (223 ) (1 )% $ 90,379 $ 82,163 $ 8,216 10 % % of net revenue 34 % 26 % 30 % 27 % Research and development expense decreased $0.2 million from $29.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $29.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to lower payroll related expenses of $0.3 million and lower depreciation expense of $0.5 million as certain fixed assets reached the end of their useful lives. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in prototype expense of $0.5 million for new projects in the 2018 period. 45 Table of Contents Research and development expense increased $8.2 million from $82.2 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $90.4 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to higher payroll-related expenses of $4.0 million related to the acquisitions in 2017 and higher prototype expenses of $3.7 million for new projects in the 2018 period. In addition, occupancy expenses were higher by $1.0 million partially due to new office leases in the current year as well as leases assumed in the 2017 acquisitions. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense of $0.6 million as certain fixed assets reached the end of their useful lives. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future when we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 24,963 $ 29,037 $ (4,074 ) (14 )% $ 76,581 $ 78,988 $ (2,407 ) (3 )% % of net revenue 29 % 26 % 26 % 26 % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $4.1 million from $29.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 , to $25.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to decreases in intangible amortization expense of $1.9 million as the backlog from the Exar and G.hn business acquisitions existing at the acquisition dates has reached the end of its useful life, professional fees of $1.2 million related to merger and acquisition expenses in the prior year and sales commission expense of $0.4 million. Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $2.4 million from $79.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $76.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to decreases in professional fees of $9.6 million related to merger and acquisition expenses in the prior year, commission expense of $1.4 million, and depreciation of $0.3 million. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in payroll-related expenses of $4.9 million and intangible asset amortization of $3.9 million mainly related to the acquisitions in the prior year. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to decrease or remain flat in the near-term; however, our expenses may increase in the future when we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets. Impairment Losses Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Impairment losses $ 2,198 $ 2,000 $ 198 10 % $ 2,198 $ 2,000 $198 10% % of net revenue 3 % 2 % 1 % 1 % Impairment losses increased $0.2 million to $2.2 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to $2.0 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Impairment losses in the 2018 periods consisted of acquired developed technology of Exar. Impairment losses in the 2017 periods consisted of acquired in-process research and development technology of Exar. Restructuring charges Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 236 $ 2,178 $ (1,942 ) (89 )% $ 2,101 $ 8,724 (6,623 ) (76)% % of net revenue % 2 % 1 % 3 % 46 Table of Contents Restructuring charges decreased $1.9 million from $2.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $0.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The charges in the three months ended September 30, 2018 primarily consisted of severance-related charges of $0.4 million in connection with employee separation expenses, partially offset by $0.2 million in lease-related credits from adjustments to the net present value of our remaining lease obligation on the cease-use date for facilities we exited last year. The charges in the three months ended September 30, 2017 consisted of severance-related charges of $1.7 million in connection with employee separation expenses and $0.5 million in lease-related and other charges from exiting certain facilities. Restructuring charges decreased $6.6 million from $8.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $2.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . The charges in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily consisted of severance-related charges of $0.7 million in connection with employee separation expenses and $1.3 million in lease-related charges from exiting certain facilities, including $0.7 million in impairment of leasehold improvements. In the nine months ended September 30, 2017, the charges primarily consisted of $4.9 million of incremental stock-based compensation from the acceleration of certain stock-based awards we assumed from Exar Corporation due to change in control provisions upon termination or diminution of authority of former Exar executives, other severance-related charges of $2.8 million, and lease restructuring charges of $0.9 million related to exiting certain Exar facilities. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (3,417 ) $ (4,800 ) $ (1,383 ) (29 )% $ (10,814 ) $ (7,504 ) $ 3,310 44 % % of net revenue (4 )% (4 )% (4 )% (2 )% Interest and other expense, net decreased by $1.4 million from $4.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 to $3.4 million in the three months ended September 30, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in interest expense of $0.7 million from a lower outstanding debt balance under the Exar acquisition term loan facility as a result of our repayments of principal. The remaining decrease of $0.7 million was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions. Interest and other expense, net increased by $3.3 million from $7.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 to $10.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in interest expense of $4.7 million due to a full period of outstanding debt balance in the 2018 period compared to a partial period of outstanding debt balance in the 2017 period under the Exar acquisition term loan facility, which commenced in May 2017. The increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.6 million primarily related to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Income tax provision (benefit) $ (2,050 ) $ (6,276 ) $ (4,226 ) (67 )% $ 7,311 $ (33,770 ) (41,081 ) (122 )% % of net revenue (2 )% (6 )% 2 % (11 )% The income tax benefit in the three months ended September 30, 2018 was $2.1 million compared to an income tax benefit of $6.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The income tax provision in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was $7.3 million compared to an income tax benefit of $33.8 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, which included the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Additionally, in April 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which reduced our Singapore corporate tax rate from 17% to a concessionary rate as described in more detail below. 47 Table of Contents The income tax provision in the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily related to the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and release of uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10. The income tax benefit in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 primarily related to the release of the federal valuation allowance during the three months ended June 30, 2017. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, as of September 30, 2018 , and our provision estimates for the effects of the Tax Act, we concluded that a valuation allowance should continue to be recorded against our state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and deferred tax assets in certain foreign jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We are closely assessing the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. In the future, we could remove some or all of the valuation allowance against our state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets if we meet the more-likely-than-not threshold at such time. In the quarter ended June 30, 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the year ending December 31, 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $67.2 million , restricted cash of $1.1 million and net accounts receivable of $58.6 million . Additionally, as of September 30, 2018 , our working capital was $107.8 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory, property and equipment and intangible assets. We also use cash to pay down outstanding debt. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, and impairment of intangible assets. Cash used to fund capital purchases is included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash used to pay down outstanding debt is included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. Our credit agreement, under which we entered into a term loan to partially fund our acquisition of Exar, permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. We have not requested any incremental loans to date. 48 Table of Contents Following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods indicated: September 30, December 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Working capital $ 107,789 $ 124,918 Cash and cash equivalents $ 67,185 $ 71,872 Short-term restricted cash 349 1,476 Long-term restricted cash 709 1,064 Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 68,243 $ 74,412 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by operating activities, used in investing activities and provided by (used in) financing activities for the periods indicated: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 78,516 $ 53,321 Net cash used in investing activities (6,413 ) (429,111 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (78,910 ) 365,779 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 638 1,211 Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (6,169 ) $ (8,800 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $78.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . Net cash provided by operating activities for this period primarily consisted of positive cash flow from $86.8 million in non-cash operating expenses and $22.7 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a net loss of $26.5 million , $3.3 million in deferred income taxes, and $1.2 million in excess tax benefits on stock-based awards. Non-cash operating expense items included in net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, and acquired intangible assets of $59.9 million , stock-based compensation of $23.7 million , and impairment of intangible assets of $2.2 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $53.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Net cash provided by operating activities for this period primarily consisted of net income of $10.3 million , $91.4 million in non-cash operating expenses, and $6.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by $48.4 million in deferred income taxes which primarily related to the release of the U.S. federal valuation allowance during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 and by $6.6 million in excess tax benefits on stock-based awards. Non-cash operating expenses included in net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment and acquired intangible assets of $46.5 million , stock-based compensation of $24.9 million , and amortization of inventory step-ups to fair value of $15.8 million , impairment of IPR&D assets of $2.0 million and losses on foreign currency of $1.4 million . Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 excludes revenue of $5.2 million and gross profit of $3.9 million that would have been recorded by Exar on a sell-through basis had deferred revenue and deferred profit as of the May 12, 2017 acquisition date not been eliminated in the purchase price allocation of Exar as a result of acquisition accounting. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $6.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 . Net cash used in investing activities for this period consisted entirely of purchases of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $429.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Net cash used in investing activities for this period consisted primarily of $452.3 million in cash used in the acquisition of Exar, net of cash acquired, $21.0 million in cash used in the acquisition of the G.hn business, $30.6 million in purchases of securities, $5.4 million in purchases of intangible assets and $4.4 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $84.5 million in sales and maturities of securities. 49 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $78.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , and consisted primarily of cash outflows from aggregate prepayments of principal of $78.0 million on outstanding debt and $5.0 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees related to vesting of restricted stock units and issuance of stock for bonus awards, partially offset by cash inflows from $4.1 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. Net cash provided by financing activities was $365.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , and consisted primarily of $416.8 million in net proceeds from borrowings under a term loan we entered in connection with the acquisition of Exar and $9.1 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by aggregate prepayments of principal of $50.0 million on outstanding debt and $9.8 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees related to vesting of restricted stock units and issuance of stock for bonus awards. We believe that our $67.2 million of cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2018 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have repaid $148.0 million of Exar-related transaction debt to date. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement or new lenders. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2018, we issued 0.3 million freely-tradable shares of our common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the 2017 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2018, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of September 30, 2018 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. 50 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2018 , future minimum payments under long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations, and other obligations are as follows: Payments due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Long-term debt obligations $ 277,000 $ $ $ $ 277,000 Operating lease obligations 33,816 2,288 17,781 12,949 798 Inventory purchase obligations 38,462 38,462 Other obligations 16,229 1,875 12,796 1,111 447 Total $ 365,507 $ 42,625 $ 30,577 $ 14,060 $ 278,245 Other obligations consist of contractual payments due for software licenses. Our contractual obligations including long-term debt, leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations, decreased by $86.3 million to $365.5 million as of September 30, 2018 , from $451.8 million as of December 31, 2017 primarily as a result of prepayments of debt and contractual payments made on our operating leases, software licenses and outstanding inventory orders during the period, partially offset by an increase in inventory orders outstanding with our vendors and software licensing. Other than disclosed above, there have been no other material changes during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 to our contractual obligations disclosed in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 51 Table of Contents