ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the sections titled Business and Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of communications SoCs used in broadband, mobile and wireline infrastructure, data center, and industrial and multi-market applications. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a high-speed communication system, including RF, high-performance analog, mixed-signal, digital signal processing, security engines, data compression and networking layers, and power management. In most cases, these products are designed on a single silicon-die, using standard digital CMOS manufacturing processes and conventional packaging technologies. Importantly, our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog functionality and complex digital signal processing logic in the same integrated circuit. As a result, we believe our solutions have exceptional levels of functional integration and performance, low manufacturing cost, and reduced power consumption versus competition. These solutions also enable shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility and low system-level cost across a range of markets. Our customers primarily include electronics distributors, module makers, OEMs and ODMs, which incorporate our products in a wide range of electronic devices. Examples of such devices include radio transceivers and modems for 4G/5G base-station and backhaul infrastructure; optical transceivers targeting hyperscale data centers; Wi-Fi and wireline routers for home networking; broadband modems compliant with DOCSIS, PON, and DSL; as well as power management and interface products used in these and many other markets. In addition, we generate revenue from certain intellectual property sale agreements. In the year ended December 31, 2024, net revenue was $360.5 million, which was derived in part from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver SoC and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications, and from revenue from intellectual property sale agreements. We have experienced slower than expected recovery in sales across all of our end markets. This is primarily driven by excess inventory in the channels as well as slower demand in regions such as China. Geopolitical tensions and changing trade policies continue to influence the semiconductor industry. We continue to develop and innovate with new products for new solutions in advanced semiconductor process nodes such as 16nm and 5nm and beyond, while addressing opportunities capturing and processing high quality broadband communications and high-speed optical interconnect signals. 60 Table of Contents Products shipped to Asia accounted for 75%, 75% and 82% of net revenue during the years ended 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, including 41%, 37% and 43%, respectively, from products shipped to Hong Kong and less than 10%, 11% and 16%, respectively, from products shipped to mainland China. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, revenue generated from sales of our products during the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers through sales of our products, as well as consideration under intellectual property sale agreements. Sales of products to customers comprise both direct sales to customers and indirect sales through distributors. In the year ended December 31, 2024, one customer accounted for 12% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 60% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers accounted for 30% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2023, one of our customers accounted for 10% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 54% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers comprised 18% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2022, two of our direct customers accounted for 31% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 65% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers comprised 27% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as PON ODUs, Wi-Fi routers, broadband gateways and cable modems. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop integrated circuits for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to move into volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the broadband data modem and gateway sectors, a design can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design can have a product life cycle of 24 to 84 months and beyond. Terminated Silicon Motion Merger On May 5, 2022, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger, or the Merger Agreement, with Silicon Motion Technology Corporation, or Silicon Motion, an exempted company with limited liability incorporated under the Law of the Cayman Islands, pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, we agreed to acquire Silicon Motion pursuant to a statutory merger of Shark Merger Sub, a wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear, with and into Silicon Motion, with Silicon Motion surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear. Silicon Motion is a provider of NAND flash controllers for solid state drives and other solid state storage devices. On July 26, 2023,we terminated the Merger Agreement and notified Silicon Motion that we were relieved of our obligations to close because, among other reasons, (i) certain conditions to closing set forth in the Merger Agreement were not satisfied and were incapable of being satisfied, (ii) Silicon Motion had suffered a Material Adverse Effect that was continuing, (iii) Silicon Motion was in material breach of representations, warranties, covenants, and agreements in the Merger Agreement that gave rise to the right of the Company to terminate, and (iv) in any event, the First Extended Outside Date had passed and was not automatically extended because certain conditions in Article 6 of the Merger Agreement were not satisfied or waived as of May 5, 2023. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, MaxLinear was not required to pay a break-up fee or other fee as a result of the termination of the Merger Agreement on these grounds. On August 16, 2023, Silicon Motion delivered a notice to us, which Silicon Motion publicly disclosed, that it was purporting to terminate the Merger Agreement and that Silicon Motion would be commencing an arbitration to seek damages from us arising from our alleged breaches of the Merger Agreement. Undefined capitalized terms in this paragraph have the same meaning as in the Merger Agreement. On October 5, 2023, Silicon Motion filed a Notice of Arbitration with the Singapore International Arbitration Centre alleging that we breached the Merger Agreement. See Part I, Item 3 (Legal Proceedings) of this report for more information on legal proceedings related to the termination of the Merger Agreement. 61 Table of Contents The second amended and restated commitment letter dated October 24, 2022 with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., or Wells Fargo Bank, and other lenders, and related financing commitments for the previously pending (now terminated) merger were also terminated upon termination of the Merger Agreement. As a result of the termination of the financing, in August 2023, the Company was required to pay to Wells Fargo Bank a ticking fee of $18.3 million, which is included in other income (expense), net in the year ended December 31, 2023. Workforce Reductions During the year ended December 31, 2024, we completed plans of restructuring to reduce our workforce, or the Workforce Reductions. The Workforce Reductions aligned our operational needs with the changes in macroeconomic conditions and the demand environment while continuing to support our long-term business strategy by reducing our operating expenses. As a result of the Workforce Reductions, in the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred $53.4 million and $19.8 million in restructuring costs. Refer to Note 4 in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for more details regarding the Workforce Reductions. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to business combinations, revenue recognition, inventory valuation, production masks, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, and income taxes. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that the following accounting estimates we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting estimates. Accordingly, these are the estimates we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Refer to Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for a summary of each of the related accounting policies. Business Combinations Estimates in our business combination accounting that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty include the valuation of identifiable intangible and tangible assets such as inventory, property and equipment, and intangible assets including in-process research and development, or IPR&D, and contingent consideration, which involve the use of forecasted financial information available at the acquisition date, including application of revenue growth rates and margin percentages, and use of a discount rate and various other assumptions as described in more detail in Notes 1 and 3 to our consolidated financial statements. When reported amounts are material, they may be sensitive to changes to certain assumptions used in the valuation. If the discount rate used in our valuations increased by 1%, it would result in a decrease to the valuation of intangible assets of an immaterial amount for our 2023 and 2021 acquisitions. The amortization and depreciation of such assets, and change in fair value of contingent consideration, impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to the acquisition, and such amounts are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we recorded impairment of intangible assets of $1.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively, associated with certain acquired licensed technology. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we did not record any material adjustments to the valuation of such assets, goodwill, or subsequent period adjustments to the consolidated statements of operations associated with our other business combinations. Revenue Recognition Estimates in our revenue recognition that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty include the estimates of price adjustments and returns under contractual stock rotation rights based on our analysis of expected value of actual price adjustment claims by distributors and product historical return rates. Any changes to such estimates, for example differences in actual sell-through activity versus our estimate of sell-through activity in our price adjustments, or actual vs. historical return rates, may impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to recording those estimates, and such amounts are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. Other than our estimates of sell-through activity and customer return rates, there are no assumptions inherent in our estimates in the valuation of price adjustments and returns that would result in 62 Table of Contents sensitivity of reported amounts to such assumptions. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 we have not recorded any material adjustments to such estimates. Inventory Valuation Estimates in the valuation of inventory that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty include our estimates of excess and obsolete inventory based on forecasts of future demand for our products in inventory. Any changes to such estimates, for example differences in actual sales versus our estimates of demand, or conversely, the ultimate sell-through of fully reserved inventory for which we did not anticipate any future demand, impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to recording those estimates. Other than our forecasts of future demand, there are no assumptions inherent in our estimates in the valuation of inventory that would result in sensitivity of reported amounts to such assumptions. During the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, we have not recorded any material net adjustments for such changes in estimates. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Estimates in our assessment of impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and management judgment include the comparison of our market capitalization as of the annual impairment assessment date to the carrying value of goodwill, use of forecasted financial information for our projects remaining in IPR&D, if any, including growth rates and margin percentages, and a discount rate as of the annual IPR&D impairment assessment date, and our quarterly assessment of whether indicators of impairment exist with respect to all of our goodwill and long-lived assets. For example, a decision to abandon a project involving the technology underlying developed technology and IPR&D, if any, may result in immediate impairment of such assets in the quarter such decision is made. As of the October 31 assessment date, we did not have any remaining IPR&D. Impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets impact our consolidated financial results in periods subsequent to their acquisition, and such amounts are disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. During the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we recorded impairment of intangible assets of $1.2 million and $2.4 million, respectively, associated with certain acquired licensed technology. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we did not record any material adjustments to the valuation of such assets. Income Taxes Estimates in our assessment of realizability of deferred tax assets that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and management judgment include projected future taxable income. For example, we continue to have a valuation allowance against state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. If projected future taxable income in the U.S., for example, were to increase from what we assumed in our estimates, in periods subsequent to recording valuation allowances, it may be more likely than not that a proportional amount of the valuation against deferred tax assets will be released, resulting in an impact to our tax provision (benefit). Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements as of the date of this report, if any. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this report, if any. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations. A discussion of changes in our results of operations during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 has been omitted from this Annual Report on Form 10-K, but may be found in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, filed with the SEC on January 31, 2024, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference and which is available free of charge on the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, analog, digital, and mixed-signal integrated circuits for access and connectivity, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications, as well as patent and intellectual property licenses. A significant portion of our sales are to distributors, who then resell our products. 63 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation; equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology and purchased licensed technology intangible assets; inventory fair value adjustments, if any; amortization of certain production mask costs and computer-aided design software license costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including benefits and stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense, and allocated occupancy costs, partially offset by income from joint R&D projects and/or governmental R&D grants, if any. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including salaries and benefits and stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, merger, acquisition and integration costs, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Impairment Losses. Impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of intangible assets. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt and amortization of discounts on debt and other liabilities. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions, including a ticking fee paid to lenders following the termination of the Silicon Motion merger, net gains (losses) from sales or impairment of investments and/or income or losses from investments, if any, including unrealized holding gains (losses) from certain investments required to be marked to market value, if any, and a gain from partial curtailment of employee defined benefit obligations. Income tax provision. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income taxes for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. 64 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 46 44 Gross profit 54 56 Operating expenses: Research and development 62 39 Selling, general and administrative 38 19 Impairment losses Restructuring charges 15 3 Total operating expenses 116 61 Loss from operations (62) (6) Interest income 2 1 Interest expense (3) (2) Other income (expense), net (3) (3) Total other income (expense), net (4) (4) Loss before income taxes (66) (9) Income tax provision 2 1 Net loss (68) % (11) % Net Revenue Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Broadband $ 116,819 $ 203,519 $ (86,700) (43) % % of net revenue 32 % 29 % Connectivity 55,769 138,228 (82,459) (60) % % of net revenue 15 % 20 % Infrastructure 113,907 177,083 (63,176) (36) % % of net revenue 32 % 26 % Industrial and multi-market 74,033 174,433 (100,400) (58) % % of net revenue 21 % 25 % Total net revenue $ 360,528 $ 693,263 $ (332,735) (48) % Net revenue decreased $332.7 million to $360.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to $0.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, as a result of macroeconomic conditions impacting customer demand, including excess inventory in the channel built up following the supply shortages in 2022. Broadband net revenue decreased by $86.7 million, driven by decreases in the volume of broadband SOC shipments in this category, partially offset by revenue from certain intellectual property sale agreements and increases from reversals of unclaimed rebates due to expiration of rebate pricing. Connectivity revenue decreased $82.5 million due to decreased volume of shipments of certain products associated with residential broadband market decline, partially offset by revenue from certain intellectual property sale agreements. The decrease in infrastructure revenues of $63.2 million was driven by decreases in the volume of wireless backhaul shipments, and high performance analog shipments, partially offset by improvement in shipments of from high-speed interconnect products, and revenues from certain intellectual property sale agreements. Industrial and multi-market revenue decreased $100.4 million driven by a decreased volume of shipments of component and high-performance analog products. Price changes did not have a material impact to revenues period over period. 65 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 165,746 $ 307,600 $ (141,854) (46) % % of net revenue 46 % 44 % Gross profit $ 194,782 $ 385,663 $ (190,881) (49) % % of net revenue 54 % 56 % Cost of net revenue decreased $141.9 million to $165.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to $307.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was driven by a decreased volume of shipments of our products as a result of macroeconomic conditions impacting customer demand for such products as described above under Net Revenue. Gross profit percentage declined for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2023, due to reduced absorption of intangible amortization and fixed costs. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 225,189 $ 269,504 $ (44,315) (16) % % of net revenue 62 % 39 % Research and development, or R&D, expense decreased $44.3 million to $225.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 from $269.5 million in the year ended December 31, 2023. The decrease was driven by decreases in payroll and benefits expense of $24.2 million, CAD design tools and other software license expense of $8.6 million, stock based compensation of $5.4 million, prototype expense of $5.0 million, bonuses of $4.5 million, consulting expense of $4.1 million, depreciation expense of $1.5 million and occupancy expenses of $1.0 million. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease in income from joint R&D and governmental grants of $10.9 million offset against R&D expense. The decrease in payroll and benefits expense, stock-based compensation, and bonuses are attributable to the Workforce Reductions and cost reduction measures. The decreases in CAD design tool, consulting and prototype expenses are due to timing of project completion. The decrease in depreciation expense is from acquired assets becoming fully amortized as they reached the end of their useful lives. The decrease in income from joint R&D projects and governmental grants is due to timing of governmental R&D grants and termination of certain programs during the first and third quarters of 2024 as a result of the Workforce Reductions. The amount of income from research and development funded by others also varies from period to period depending on availability of such funding, including governmental grants. We are reducing our research and development spending, including via our Workforce Reductions, to meet evolving demand; however, we expect our research and development expenses to increase in future years as we develop products to drive future growth. Selling, General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 138,329 $ 132,156 $ 6,173 5 % % of net revenue 38 % 19 % 66 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expense increased $6.2 million to $138.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to $132.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was a result of increase in stock based compensation of $16.4 million, partially offset by decreases in payroll and other benefits expense of $6.2 million, bonuses of $1.7 million, commission expense of $1.1 million, and depreciation and amortization of $1.0 million. The increase in stock-based compensation expense is a result of incremental grants made to executives and employees for retention purposes. The decreases in payroll and other benefits and bonuses are attributable to the Workforce Reductions and other cost reduction measures. The decrease in commissions expense is due to decreased revenues. The decrease in depreciation and amortization is from assets becoming fully amortized as they reached the end of their useful lives. We are reducing our selling, general and administrative expenses, including via our Workforce Reductions; however, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in future years when we return to growing our sales and marketing organization to expand into existing and new markets. Impairment Losses Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Impairment losses $ 1,237 $ 2,438 $ (1,201) (49)% % of net revenue % % Impairment losses in the year ended December 31, 2024 related to abandonment of certain intellectual property licenses. Impairment losses in the year ended December 31, 2023 also related to abandonment of certain intellectual property licenses. Restructuring Charges Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 53,379 $ 19,786 $ 33,593 170% % of net revenue 15 % 3 % Restructuring charges increased $33.6 million to $53.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to $19.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Restructuring charges increased $17.5 million to $19.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2024 included $28.9 million in employee severance-related charges, $17.2 million in charges under contracts associated with cancelled projects and related impairment of assets, and $7.2 million in charges related to reduction of space leased for office facilities. A large portion of the employee severance-related charges are estimated statutory severance benefits payable in the jurisdictions in which the terminated employees were employed, with the remainder representing standard severance benefits. Restructuring charges in the year ended December 31, 2023 included $17.9 million in employee severance-related charges and $1.8 million in other charges driven by the abandonment of certain computer-assisted design software licenses used by the terminated workforce. Approximately two-thirds of the employee severance-related charges in 2023 were estimated statutory severance benefits payable in the jurisdictions in which the terminated employees were employed, with the remainder representing standard severance benefits. 67 Table of Contents Interest and Other Income (Expense) Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (15,365) $ (25,589) $ 10,224 (40) % % of net revenue (4) % (4) % Interest and other income (expense), net changed by $10.2 million to a net expense of $15.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2024 from a net expense of $25.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Interest and other income (expense), net for the year ended December 31, 2023 included a loan ticking fee of approximately $18.3 million paid to lenders following the termination of the Silicon Motion merger, partially offset by $1.0 million gain related to partial curtailment of defined benefit pension obligations which did not recur in the 2024 period. Currency exchange yielded gains of $1.3 million in the 2024 period compared to $2.5 million of losses in the 2023 period, or a positive impact of $3.7 million, and investment gains were $0.5 million compared to investment losses of $0.6 million, or a positive impact of $1.2 million. The positive impacts pertaining to these items were partially offset by negative impacts from the impairment of privately held investments and notes receivable of $12.3 million. The investments were impaired due to insolvency of the underlying business. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Income tax provision $ 6,481 $ 9,337 $ (2,856) (31) % % of pre-tax income (loss) (3) % (15) % The income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $6.5 million compared to an income tax provision of $9.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The difference between our effective tax rate and the 21.0% U.S. federal statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily related to the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, permanent tax items including tax credits, stock based compensation, tax deficiencies related to stock-based compensation, release of uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10, and the recognition of a valuation allowance on Singapore deferred tax assets. The difference between our effective tax rate and the 21.0% U.S. federal statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 2023 resulted primarily from the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, permanent tax items including tax credits and a tax on global intangible low-taxed income, stock based compensation, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and release of uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10. The permanent tax item related to global intangible low-taxed income, or GILTI, also reflects the then recent legislative changes requiring the capitalization of research and experimentation costs, as well as limitations on the creditability of certain foreign income taxes. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we continue to have a valuation allowance on state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We do not incur income tax expense or benefit in certain tax-free jurisdictions in which we operate. Our subsidiary in Singapore operates under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are effective through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. We recorded income taxes in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 at the incentive rate. The incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve 68 Table of Contents compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of $118.6 million, restricted cash of $1.0 million and net accounts receivable of $85.5 million. Additionally, as of December 31, 2024, our working capital, which we define as current assets less current liabilities, was $141.2 million. Financial instruments, which potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk, consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. Collateral is generally not required for customer receivables. We limit our exposure to credit loss by placing our cash with high credit quality financial institutions. At times, such deposits may be in excess of insured limits. We have not experienced any losses on our deposits of cash and cash equivalents. Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses and purchases of inventory, property and equipment, and from time to time, the acquisition of businesses. In May 2022, we entered into the Merger Agreement to acquire Silicon Motion. However, on July 26, 2023, we terminated the Merger Agreement and were relieved of our obligations to close. From time to time, we may also use cash to pay down outstanding debt and/or make investments. As of December 31, 2024, $125.0 million of principal was outstanding under a senior secured term B loan facility, or the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement. The Company also has available, subject to the terms and conditions of the agreement, a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million, which remained undrawn as of December 31, 2024. The proceeds of the revolving facility may be used to finance the working capital needs and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. Commencing on September 30, 2021, the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement has amortized in equal quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount of the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement, with the balance payable on June 23, 2028. We could be subject to substantial variable interest rate risk because our interest rate under term loans typically vary based on a fixed margin over an indexed rate or an adjusted base rate. While we had been mitigating the impact of high interest rates with large amounts of prepayments on our outstanding debt, if interest rates were to further increase substantially, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and affect our ability to service the indebtedness. Please refer to the Risk Factor entitled As of December 31, 2024, our aggregate indebtedness was $125.0 million, and we are subject to a variable amount of interest on the principal balance of our credit agreements and could continue to be adversely impacted by high interest rates in the future. Such indebtedness adversely affects our operating results and cash-flows as we satisfy our underlying interest and principal payment obligations and contains financial and operational covenants that could adversely affect our operational freedom or ability to pursue strategic transactions that we would otherwise consider to be in the best interests of stockholders, including obtaining additional indebtedness to finance such transactions. In addition, high interest rates may make it more difficult for us, our customers, and our distributors to obtain financing and service our respective interest and debt obligations, which in turn has an impact on customer demand for our products and our distributors business for a discussion of how our indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including changes in revenue, the expansion or contraction of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products, any damages from legal proceedings related to the termination of the Merger Agreement with Silicon Motion or any alleged breaches of the Merger Agreement that we are required to pay, or any amounts we agree to pay in any settlement and any other potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations or execute our strategic plans. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as, but not limited to, amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets and property and equipment, stock-based compensation, impairment of assets, and gain on extinguishment of lease liabilities. Cash used to fund capital purchases and acquisitions of businesses and investments are included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash paid to satisfy minimum tax 69 Table of Contents withholdings on behalf of employees for restricted stock units and cash proceeds from issuance of common stock and debt and cash used to pay down outstanding debt, if any, are included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. As of December 31, 2024, our material cash requirements include long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations, which primarily consist of contractual payments due for computer-aided design software, as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Long term debt obligations $ 125,000 $ $ $ 125,000 $ Operating lease obligations 28,863 10,599 14,214 4,050 Purchase obligations 51,262 39,872 11,390 Other obligations 55,286 32,131 23,155 Total $ 260,411 $ 82,602 $ 48,759 $ 129,050 $ Our planned capital expenditures as of December 31, 2024 were not material. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2024 included in other long-term liabilities $4.4 million for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment and $15.0 million received from other parties for jointly funded research and development projects which will be recognized into income when the contingencies associated with the repayment conditions have been resolved. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as other long-term liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers, and on occasion, proceeds that we receive under certain intellectual property sale agreements. Aside from the amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. The June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement, under which we entered into a senior secured term B loan facility and a revolving credit facility, permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of an amount equal to the greater of (x) $175.0 million and (y) 100% of Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in such agreement), plus the amount of certain voluntary prepayments, plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain first lien net leverage ratio, secured net leverage ratio and total net leverage ratio tests. The following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods indicated: December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Working capital $ 141,158 $ 265,896 Cash and cash equivalents $ 118,575 $ 187,288 Short-term restricted cash 1,003 1,051 Long-term restricted cash 25 17 Total cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 119,603 $ 188,356 We believe that our $118.6 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2024 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2024, our indebtedness totaled $125.0 million, which consists of outstanding principal under the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement. The June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement also provides the Company with the Revolving Facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million, which remained undrawn as of December 31, 2024. The Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement has a seven-year term expiring in June 2028 and bears interest, at the Companys option, at a per annum rate equal to either (i) a base rate equal to the highest of (x) the federal funds rate, plus 0.50%, (y) the prime rate then in effect and (z) an adjusted LIBOR rate determined on the basis of a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, in each case, plus an applicable margin 70 Table of Contents of 1.25% or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate, subject to a floor of 0.50%, plus an applicable margin of 2.25%. Loans under the Revolving Facility initially bear interest, at a per annum rate equal to either (i) a base rate (as calculated above) plus an applicable margin of 0.00%, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate (as calculated above) plus an applicable margin of 1.00%. Following delivery of financial statements for the Companys fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2021, the applicable margin for loans under the Revolving Facility will range from 0.00% to 0.75% in the case of base rate loans and 1.00% to 1.75% in the case of LIBOR rate loans, in each case, depending on the Companys secured net leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. The Company is required to pay commitment fees ranging from 0.175% to 0.25% per annum on the daily undrawn commitments under the Revolving Facility, depending on the Companys secured net leverage ratio as of the most recently ended fiscal quarter. Commencing on September 30, 2021, the Initial Term Loan under the June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement amortizes in equal quarterly installments equal to 0.25% of the original principal amount, with the balance payable at maturity on June 23, 2028. The June 23, 2021 Credit Agreement was amended on June 29, 2023 to implement a benchmark replacement for LIBOR. The following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (45,295) $ 43,372 Net cash used in investing activities (23,446) (15,935) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1,286 (26,356) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,298) (1,082) Decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (68,753) $ (1) Cash Flows from Operating Activities In the year ended December 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $45.3 million, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $43.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. The decline in operating cash flows was driven by a decline in revenue from decreased volume of shipments of our products as a result of macroeconomic conditions impacting customer demand for our products (as discussed under the heading, Results of Operations, above). Operating cash flows were also impacted by changes in our working capital, which increased $68.4 million, in particular, in 2024, we collected accounts receivable of $177.6 million, which was partially offset by payments against our price protection liability of $44.6 million and severance and other payments from the Workforce Reductions of $34.5 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Our use of cash in investing activities increased, as we increased investments in property equipment, including production masks. Net cash used in investing activities was $23.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 and consisted of purchases of property and equipment of $17.7 million and purchases of intangible assets of $5.8 million. Net cash used in investing activities was $15.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. Cash Flows from Financing Activities We continued cash conservation in 2024 following the general slowdown in the market environment. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Net cash provided by financing activities consisted of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options of $4.1 million partially offset by cash outflows of repayments of minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units of $2.8 million. Net cash used in financing activities was $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023. 71 Table of Contents Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons.