Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands, except per share amounts) Consolidated Statement of Operations Data: Net revenue $ 384,997 $ 420,318 $ 387,832 $ 300,360 $ 133,112 Cost of net revenue 176,223 212,355 157,842 144,937 51,154 Gross profit 208,774 207,963 229,990 155,423 81,958 Operating expenses: Research and development 120,046 112,279 97,745 85,405 56,625 Selling, general and administrative 101,789 105,831 64,454 77,981 34,191 Impairment losses 2,198 2,000 1,300 21,600 Restructuring charges 3,838 9,524 3,432 14,086 Total operating expenses 227,871 229,634 166,931 199,072 90,816 Income (loss) from operations (19,097 ) (21,671 ) 63,059 (43,649 ) (8,858 ) Interest income 78 274 572 275 236 Interest expense (14,255 ) (10,378 ) (104 ) (100 ) (15 ) Other income (expense), net 422 (2,223 ) 163 568 (108 ) Total interest and other income (expense), net (13,755 ) (12,327 ) 631 743 113 Income (loss) before income taxes (32,852 ) (33,998 ) 63,690 (42,906 ) (8,745 ) Income tax provision (benefit) (6,653 ) (24,811 ) 2,398 (575 ) (1,704 ) Net income (loss) $ (26,199 ) $ (9,187 ) $ 61,292 $ (42,331 ) $ (7,041 ) Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ (0.38 ) $ (0.14 ) $ 0.96 $ (0.79 ) $ (0.19 ) Diluted $ (0.38 ) $ (0.14 ) $ 0.91 $ (0.79 ) $ (0.19 ) Shares used to compute net income (loss) per share: Basic 68,490 66,252 63,781 53,378 36,472 Diluted 68,490 66,252 67,653 53,378 36,472 45 As of December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 (in thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short- and long-term investments, available-for-sale $ 74,191 $ 74,412 $ 136,805 $ 130,498 $ 79,351 Working capital 110,044 124,918 158,304 134,170 67,668 Total assets 738,831 824,862 422,652 334,505 135,711 Total stockholders equity 399,936 387,424 352,424 262,924 99,102 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio-frequency, or RF, high-performance analog, and mixed-signal communications systems-on-chip solutions for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a broadband communication system. In most cases, these products are designed on a single silicon-die, using standard digital CMOS processes and conventional packaging technologies. We believe this enables our solutions to achieve superior power, performance, and cost advantages relative to our industry competition. Our customers include electronics distributors, module makers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and original design manufacturers (ODMs), who incorporate our products in a wide range of electronic devices. Examples of such end market electronic devices incorporating our products include cable DOCSIS broadband modems and gateways; wireline connectivity devices for in-home networking applications; RF transceivers and modems for wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure; fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport networks; video set-top boxes and gateways; hybrid analog and digital televisions, direct broadcast satellite outdoor and indoor units; and power management and interface products used in these and a range of other markets. We combine our high-performance RF and mixed-signal semiconductor design skills with our expertise in digital communications systems, software, high-performance analog, and embedded systems to provide highly integrated semiconductor devices and platform-level solutions that are manufactured using a range of semiconductor manufacturing processes, including low-cost complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, process technology, Silicon Germanium, Gallium Arsenide, BiCMOS and Indium Phosphide process technologies. Our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog and digital signal processing functionality in the same integrated circuit. As a result, our solutions have high levels of functional integration and performance, small silicon die size, and low power consumption. Moreover, we are uniquely positioned to offer customers a combination of proprietary CMOS-based radio system architectures that provide the benefits of superior RF system performance, along with high-performance analog interface and power management solutions that enable shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility, and low system cost across a wide range of broadband communications, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. 46 Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $385.0 million in fiscal 2018 . In fiscal 2018 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital pay-TV applications, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the smartphone market, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 81% , 89% and 93% of net revenue during the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively, including 63% , 71% and 78% , respectively, from products shipped to China. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products during the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products during the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. There is a growing portion of our business, related specifically to our high-speed optical interconnect products, that are shipped to, and are ultimately consumed in Asian markets, with the majority of these products being purchased by end customers in China. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the year ended December 31, 2018 , one of our customers, Arris (which entered into a definitive agreement to be acquired by CommScope Holding Company, Inc.) accounted for 18% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 61% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2017 , one of our customers, Arris, accounted for 25% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 58% of our net revenue. In the year ended December 31, 2016 , two of our customers, Arris and Technicolor, accounted for 37% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 74% of our net revenue. Sales to Arris as a percentage of revenue include sales to Pace, which was acquired by Arris in January 2016, for the year ended December 31, 2016. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and satellite gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. For a discussion of specific risks and uncertainties that could affect our ability to achieve these and other strategic objectives of our acquisitions, please refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors under the subsection captioned Risks Relating to Recent Acquisitions. 47 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that the following accounting policies involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition On January 1, 2018, we adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Accounting Standards Codification Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , or ASC 606, using the modified retrospective method and accordingly, modified our policy on revenue recognition as stated below. The primary impact of adopting ASC 606 for MaxLinear was to accelerate the timing of our revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some of our distributors, which changed from recognition upon the sale to our distributors' end customers, or the sell-through method, to recognition upon our sale to the distributor, or the sell-in method. We are now also required to estimate the effects of pricing credits to our distributors from contractual price protection and unit rebate provisions, as well as stock rotation rights and record such estimated credits upon our sale to the distributor. As a result of the adoption of ASC 606 as of January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method, prior period amounts have not been adjusted to reflect the change in revenue recognition for such distributor sales. Substantially all of our revenue is generated from sales of our integrated circuits to electronics distributors, module makers, OEMs, and ODMs under individual customer purchase orders, some of which have underlying master sales agreements that specify terms governing the product sales. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 and recognize revenue at the point in time when control of the products is transferred to the customer at the estimated net consideration for which collection is probable, taking into account our customer's rights to price protection, other pricing credits, unit rebates, and rights to return unsold product. Transfer of control occurs either when products are shipped to or received by the distributor or direct customer, based on the terms of the specific agreement with the customer, if we have a present right to payment and transfer of legal title and the risks and rewards of ownership to the customer has occurred. For most of our product sales, transfer of control occurs upon shipment to our distributor or direct customer. In assessing whether collection of consideration from a customer is probable, we consider the customer's ability and intention to pay that amount of consideration when it is due. Payment of invoices is due as specified in the underlying customer agreement, typically 30 days from the invoice date, which occurs on the date of transfer of control of the products to the customer. Since payment terms are less than a year, we have elected the practical expedient and do not assess whether a customer contract has a significant financing component. A five-step approach is applied in the recognition of revenue under ASC 606: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when we satisfy a performance obligation. We applied ASC 606 to our customer contracts that were not completed before the January 1, 2018 adoption date. Customer purchase orders plus the underlying master sales agreements are considered to be contracts with the customer for purposes of applying the five-step approach under ASC 606. Pricing adjustments and estimates of returns under contractual stock rotation rights are treated as variable consideration for purposes of determining the transaction price, and are estimated at the time control transfers using the expected value method based on our analysis of actual price adjustment claims by distributors and product and historical return rates, and then reassessed at the end of each reporting period. We also consider whether any variable consideration is constrained, since such amounts for which it is probable that a significant reversal will occur when the contingency is subsequently resolved are required to be excluded from revenues. Price adjustments are finalized at the time the products are sold through to the end customer and the distributor or end customer submits a claim to reduce the sale price to a pre-approved net price. Stock rotation allowances are capped at a fixed percentage of our sales to a distributor for a period of time, up to six months, as specified in the individual distributor contract. If our current estimates of such credits and rights are materially inaccurate, it 48 may result in adjustments that affect future revenues and gross profits. Returns under our general assurance warranty of products for a period of one to three years have not been material and warranty-related services are not considered a separate performance obligation under the customer contracts. Most of our customers resell our product as part of their product and thus are tax-exempt, however to the extent we collect and remit taxes on product sales from customers, we have elected to exclude from the measurement of transaction price such taxes. Each distinct promise to transfer products is considered to be an identified performance obligation for which revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the products to the customer. Although customers may place orders for products to be delivered on multiple dates that may be in different quarterly reporting periods, all of the orders are scheduled within one year from the order date. We have opted to not disclose the portion of revenues allocated to partially unsatisfied performance obligations, which represent products to be shipped within 12 months under open customer purchase orders, at the end of the current reporting period as allowed under ASC 606. We have also elected to record sales commissions when incurred, pursuant to the practical expedient under ASC 340, as the period over which the sales commission asset that would have been recognized is less than one year. Customer contract liabilities consist of obligations to deliver rebates to customers in the form of units of products, which are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. Other obligations to customers consist of estimates of price protection rights offered to our end customers, which are included in accrued price protection liability in the consolidated balance sheets, as well as price adjustments expected to be claimed by the distributor upon sell-through of the products to their customers, and amounts expected to be returned by distributors under stock rotation rights, which are included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. We also record a right of return asset consist of amounts representing the products we expect to receive from customers in returns, which is included in inventory in the consolidated balance sheets, and is typically settled within six months of transfer of control to the customer, or the period over which stock rotation rights are based. Upon lapse of the time period for stock rotations, or the contractual end to price protection and rebate programs, which is approximately one to two years, and when we believe unclaimed amounts are no longer subject to payment and will not be paid, any remaining asset or liability is derecognized by an offsetting entry to cost of net revenue and net revenue. For additional disclosures regarding contract liabilities and other obligations to customers, see Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements. We assess customer accounts receivable and contract assets for impairment in accordance with ASC 310-10-35. The following tables present the amounts by which each financial statement line item was affected as a result of applying ASC 606: Year Ended December 31, 2018 Amounts under Legacy GAAP Impact of Adoption As reported (in thousands, except per share amounts) Consolidated statement of operations: Net revenue $ 370,033 $ 14,964 $ 384,997 Cost of net revenue 170,719 5,504 176,223 Gross profit 199,314 9,460 208,774 Loss from operations (28,557 ) 9,460 (19,097 ) Loss before income taxes (42,312 ) 9,460 (32,852 ) Income tax benefit (8,640 ) 1,987 (6,653 ) Net loss (33,672 ) 7,473 (26,199 ) Basic and diluted loss per share (0.49 ) 0.11 (0.38 ) 49 December 31, 2018 Amounts under Legacy GAAP Impact of Adoption As reported (in thousands) Consolidated balance sheet: Accounts receivable $ 59,491 $ $ 59,491 Inventory 41,470 268 41,738 Total current assets 180,343 268 180,611 Total assets 738,563 268 738,831 Deferred revenue and deferred profit 19,499 (19,499 ) Accrued expenses and other current liabilities 12,860 10,660 23,520 Total current liabilities 79,406 (8,839 ) 70,567 Total liabilities 347,734 (8,839 ) 338,895 Accumulated deficit (102,737 ) 9,107 (93,630 ) Total stockholders' equity 390,829 9,107 399,936 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity 738,563 268 738,831 The impacts of adopting ASC 606 as shown above were primarily related to the acceleration of the timing of the Companys revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some of its distributors, which changed from sale to the distributors' end customers, or the sell-through method, to recognition upon the Company's sale to the distributor, or the sell-in method. Revenues from sales through our distributors accounted for 42% , 34% and 19% of net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and assess each customers credit worthiness. We monitor collections and payments from our customers and maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts based upon our historical experience, our anticipation of uncollectible accounts receivable and any specific customer collection issues that we have identified. While our credit losses have historically been insignificant, we may experience higher credit loss rates in the future than we have in the past. Our receivables are concentrated with relatively few customers. Therefore, a significant change in the liquidity or financial position of any one significant customer could make collection of our accounts receivable more difficult, require us to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts and negatively affect our working capital. Inventory Valuation We assess the recoverability of our inventory based on assumptions about demand and market conditions. Forecasted demand is determined based on historical sales and expected future sales. Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. We reduce our inventory to its lower of cost or net realizable value on a part-by-part basis to account for its obsolescence or lack of marketability. Reductions are calculated as the difference between the cost of inventory and its net realizable value based upon assumptions about future demand, market conditions and costs. Once established, these adjustments are considered permanent and are not revised until the related inventory is sold or disposed of. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required that may adversely affect our operating results. If actual market conditions are more favorable, we may have higher gross profits when products are sold. Production Masks Production masks with alternative future uses or discernible future benefits are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful life of two years to five years. To determine if the production mask has alternative future uses or benefits, we evaluate risks associated with developing new technologies and capabilities, and the related risks associated with entering new markets. Production masks that do not meet the criteria for capitalization are expensed as research and development costs. 50 Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill is the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for under the acquisition method. Intangible assets represent purchased intangible assets including developed technology and in-process research and development, or IPR&D, technologies acquired or licensed from other companies, customer relationships, noncompete covenants, backlog, and trademarks and tradenames. Purchased finite-lived intangible assets are capitalized and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Technologies acquired or licensed from other companies, customer relationships, noncompete covenants, backlog, and trademarks and tradenames are capitalized and amortized over the lesser of the terms of the agreement, or estimated useful life. We capitalize IPR&D projects acquired as part of a business combination. On completion of each project, IPR&D assets are reclassified to developed technology and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment using either a qualitative assessment, and/or the two-step method as needed. Step one is the identification of potential impairment. This involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit, which we have determined to be the entity itself, with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying amount, the goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is unnecessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. We test by reporting unit, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at October 31 each year or more frequently if we believe indicators of impairment exist. During development, IPR&D is not subject to amortization and is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets each year for impairment using a qualitative assessment, followed by a quantitative assessment, as needed, each year as of October 31, the date of our annual goodwill impairment review, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of indefinite-lived intangible assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value. In certain cases, we utilize the relief-from-royalty method when appropriate, and a fair value will be obtained based on analysis over the costs saved by owning the right instead of leasing it. Once an IPR&D project is complete, it becomes a finite-lived intangible asset and is evaluated for impairment both immediately prior to its change in classification and thereafter in accordance with our policy for long-lived assets. We regularly review the carrying amount of our long-lived assets subject to depreciation and amortization, as well as the useful lives, to determine whether indicators of impairment may exist which warrant adjustments to carrying values or estimated useful lives. An impairment loss would be recognized when the sum of the expected future undiscounted net cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Should impairment exist, the impairment loss would be measured based on the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the assets fair value. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes utilizing the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach, deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. Deferred taxes are presented net as noncurrent. The provision for income taxes generally represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from the differences between the financial and tax bases of our assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when a judgment is made that is considered more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. A decision to record a valuation allowance results in an increase in income tax expense or a decrease in income tax benefit. If the valuation allowance is released in a future period, income tax expense will be reduced accordingly. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex global tax regulations. The impact of an uncertain income tax position is recognized at the largest amount that is more likely than not to be sustained upon audit by the relevant taxing authority. An uncertain income tax position will not be recognized if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If the estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will be realized. The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the 51 generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. We continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset by evaluating both positive and negative evidence that may exist. Any adjustment to the net deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded in the income statement for the period that the adjustment is determined to be required. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, was enacted into U.S. tax law. Also on December 22, 2017, the SEC issued guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address certain fact patterns where the accounting for changes in tax laws or tax rates under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete upon issuance of an entity's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act is enacted. As permitted in SAB 118, in 2017, we took a measurement period approach and reported certain provisional amounts, based on reasonable estimates, for certain tax effects in which the accounting under ASC 740 was incomplete. Such provisional amounts were subject to adjustment during a limited measurement period, not to extend one year beyond the tax law enactment date. We have completed the accounting required under ASC 740 in a timely manner. Stock-Based Compensation We measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for equity incentive awards, including restricted stock units and restricted stock awards, employee stock purchase rights and stock options, based on the grant date fair value of the award. We calculate the fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock awards based on the fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to calculate the fair value of stock options and employee stock purchase rights granted to employees. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized over the period during which the employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, which is usually the vesting period. We recognize compensation expense over the vesting period using the straight-line method and classify these amounts in the statements of operations based on the department to which the related employee reports. We calculate the weighted-average expected life of options using the simplified method as prescribed by guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This decision was based on the lack of historical data due to our limited number of stock option exercises under the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan. We will continue to assess the appropriateness of the use of the simplified method as we develop a history of option exercises. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), which provides for new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard replaced all prior U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminated all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance became effective for MaxLinear on January 1, 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We applied the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to accumulated deficit for the cumulative effect of adoption. Adoption of the amendments in this guidance accelerated the timing of our revenue and related cost recognition on products sold via some distributors, which changed from the sell-through method to the sell-in method under this guidance. We are also required to estimate the effects of pricing credits to our distributors from contractual price protection and unit rebate provisions, as well as stock rotation rights. We have completed our assessment of the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018; such impact is disclosed above, under the caption "Critical Accounting PoliciesRevenue Recognition." The impact to accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2018 was not material. As a result of applying the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to accumulated deficit in our consolidated financial statements for the cumulative effect of adoption, revenues that would have been recognized on a sell-through basis for the amount of deferred revenue and profit remaining as of the adoption date will not be recognized in earnings for any period. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . The amendments in this update include, among other things, a requirement to (1) measure equity investments (except equity method investments) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income, with an option to measure equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values at cost minus any impairment plus or minus any changes resulting from observable price changes; previously changes in fair value were recognized in other comprehensive income, and (2) separately present financial assets and liabilities by measurement category and form of financial asset on the balance sheet or the accompanying notes to the financial statement. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first 52 quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 . In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net ) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with and applied on the same basis as the new revenue recognition standard. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 . In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments, including, among other things, contingent consideration payments made following a business combination, proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims in the statement of cash flows, and debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs. Cash payments not made soon after the acquisition date up to the amount of the contingent consideration liability recognized at the acquisition date should be classified as financing activities and any excess payments should be classified as operating activities, whereas cash payments made soon after the acquisition date to settle the contingent consideration should be classified as investing activities and cash payments for debt prepayment or debt extinguishment costs should be classified as financing activities. Cash proceeds received from settlement of insurance claims should be classified on the basis of the nature of the related losses. The amendments in this update should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented, unless impracticable, and if impracticable, would be applied prospectively as of the earliest date practicable. The amendments in this update were effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018 . In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting to provide clarity and reduce both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this update require us to account for the effects of a modification in a stock-based award unless the fair value, vesting conditions and classification of the modified award is the same as those of the original award immediately before the original award is modified. If the modification does not affect any of the inputs to the valuation technique that the entity uses to value the award, the entity is not required to estimate the value immediately before and after the modification. The amendments in this update were effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update are applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. Since we have not had any modifications to stock-based awards that do not affect the inputs into the Black Scholes fair value calculation, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Staff, or SEC Staff, issued guidance in Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, or SAB 118, to address certain fact patterns where the accounting for changes in tax laws or tax rates under ASC Topic 740 is incomplete upon issuance of an entity's financial statements for the reporting period in which the Tax Act is enacted. As permitted in SAB 118, in 2017, we took a measurement period approach and reported certain provisional amounts, based on reasonable estimates, for certain tax effects in which the accounting under ASC 740 is incomplete. Such provisional amounts are subject to adjustment during a limited measurement period, not to extend one year beyond the tax law enactment date, until the accounting under ASC 740 is complete. We completed the accounting required under ASC 740 in 2018; however as new guidance and interpretations of the tax law become available, any further adjustments related to the enacted tax laws could result in a material adverse impact on our net income and our financial position in 2019. 53 In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . The amendments in this update allow a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Act. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in fiscal 2019, including interim periods. Early adoption is permitted. The amendments should be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period or periods in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Act is recognized. We adopted the amendments in this update in the year ended December 31, 2018. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 . In March 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-05, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 . The amendments in this update amend the SEC paragraphs included in Topic 740 to be consistent with the guidance in SAB 118, which we adopted in the year ended December 31, 2017, as described above. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting, to expand the scope of Topic 718 to include share-based payment transactions for acquiring goods and services from nonemployees. As a result, the accounting for share-based payment awards to nonemployees and employees will be substantially aligned by eliminating the need to measure nonemployee share-based awards at fair value on the earlier of performance commitment date or date performance is complete. Both employee and nonemployee share-based awards are now measured at grant-date fair value. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted, but no earlier than our adoption of Topic 606. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update as of July 1, 2018, with the cumulative effect of the change recorded against accumulated deficit as of July 1, 2018. As our nonemployee share-based awards are not significant, such adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated accumulated deficit as of July 1, 2018. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We intend to make this election, along with other available practical expedients. Also, in July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842): Targeted Improvements , to provide an additional transition method. An entity can now elect not to present comparative financial information under Topic 842 if it recognizes a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings upon adoption. We plan to elect this transition option in our adoption of Topic 842. The amendments in these updates are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We have performed an assessment of the impact of the adoption of the amendments in these updates on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for our leases, which primarily consist of facility leases. Based on that assessment, we have estimated that the adoption of Topic 842 will result in the recognition of approximately $24 million of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as of January 1, 2019 based on the present value of future minimum lease payments. Also, the impacts from the adoption of Topic 842 to our accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2019 and to our consolidated results of operations for the year ending December 31, 2019 are not expected to be material. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 54 In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815), which is intended to improve accounting for hedging activities by expanding and refining hedge accounting for both nonfinancial and financial risk components and aligning the recognition and presentation of the effects of the hedging instrument and the hedged item in the financial statements. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update should be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the expected impact of the amendments, but do not expect these to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-09, Codification Improvements, to clarify the Codification and prevent any unintended applications of guidance. An amendment to ASC 718-740, CompensationStock CompensationIncome Taxes , clarifies that excess tax benefits should be recognized in the period in which the amount of the deduction is determined. The transition and effective date guidance is based on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. The amendment identified above is effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2019. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases , to clarify on how to apply certain aspects of the new leases standard. The amendments in this update, among other things, better articulates the requirement for a lessee's reassessment of lease classification as of the effective date of a modification, clarifies that a change to an index or rate for variable lease payments does not constitute a resolution of a contingency that would result in the remeasurement of lease payments, and requires entities that apply Topic 842 retrospectively to each reporting period and do not adopt the practical expedients to write off any prior unamortized initial direct costs that do not meet the definition under Topic 842 to equity. The amendments have the same effective date and transition requirements as the new lease standard summarized above. We have disclosed the impact of adoption of Topic 842 on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as stated above. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement , to improve the fair value measurement reporting of financial instruments. The amendments in this update require, among other things, added disclosure of the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update eliminate, among other things, disclosure of the reasons for and amounts of transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and an entity's valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. Retrospective application is required for all amendments in this updated except the added disclosures, which should be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, Intangibles- Goodwill and OtherInternal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract , to provide additional guidance on the accounting for costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts. The amendments in this update require the capitalization of implementation costs during the application development stage of such hosting arrangements and amortization of the expense over the term of the arrangement including any option to extend reasonably certain to be exercised or option to terminate reasonably certain not to be exercised. Capitalized implementation costs and amortization thereof are also required to be classified in the same line item in the statements of financial position, operations and cash flows associated with the hosting service fees. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, with early adoption permitted. We may select retrospective or prospective application to all implementation costs incurred after the adoption date. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 55 Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations . Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, analog and mixed-signal integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our sales are to distributors, who then resell our products. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets and inventory step-ups to fair value; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Impairment Losses. Impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Income Tax Provision (Benefit). We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. 56 The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Net revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 46 51 41 Gross profit 54 49 59 Operating expenses: Research and development 31 27 25 Selling, general and administrative 26 25 17 Impairment losses 1 Restructuring charges 1 2 1 Total operating expenses 59 54 43 Income (loss) from operations (5 ) (5 ) 16 Total interest and other income (expense), net (4 ) (3 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (9 ) (8 ) 16 Income tax provision (benefit) (2 ) (6 ) Net income (loss) (7 )% (2 )% 16 % Net Revenue Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Connected home $ 207,336 $ 288,610 $ 346,990 (28 )% (17 )% % of net revenue 54 % 69 % 89 % Infrastructure 82,388 71,779 37,411 15 % 92 % % of net revenue 21 % 17 % 10 % Industrial and multi-market 95,273 59,929 3,431 59 % 1,647 % % of net revenue 25 % 14 % 1 % Total net revenue $ 384,997 $ 420,318 $ 387,832 (8 )% 8 % Net revenue decreased $35.3 million to $385.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , as compared to $420.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $81.3 million was driven by the anticipated declines from legacy product shipments used in satellite, terrestrial, and video SoC applications, as well as a slowdown in the cable market, which impacted both cable and related MoCA product shipments, owing to the market transition from DOCSIS 3.0 to DOCSIS 3.1 and related customer inventory reductions, partially offset by increased G.hn product shipments. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $10.6 million primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from our power management and data encryption products and increased wireless infrastructure shipments, which were partially offset by declines in our high-speed interconnect products serving the Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-outs and last-mile broadband access deployments in China. The increase in industrial and multi-market revenue of $35.3 million was related to the incremental contribution of shipments of high performance analog products. 57 Net revenue increased $32.5 million to $420.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $387.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2016 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $58.4 million was primarily driven by the anticipated declines in our satellite analog channel-stacking solutions for the satellite pay-TV market and legacy video SoCs used primarily in cable digital-to-analog (DTA) converter applications, which declined significantly year-over-year. These reductions were partially offset by increased cable modem and data gateway sales. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $34.4 million primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from our wireless infrastructure backhaul business, and from power management and data encryption products, which were partially offset by year-over-year declines in our high-speed interconnect products serving the Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-outs. The increase in industrial and multi-market revenues of $56.5 million was primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments of high performance analog products. We currently expect that revenue will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on evolving customer demand for existing products, the pace of adoption of newer products, and macroeconomic conditions. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 176,223 $ 212,355 $ 157,842 (17 )% 35 % % of net revenue 46 % 51 % 41 % Gross profit 208,774 207,963 229,990 % (10 )% % of net revenue 54 % 49 % 59 % Cost of net revenue decreased $36.1 million to $176.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , as compared to $212.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales and a decrease in acquired inventory step-up amortization of $25.6 million primarily related to the acquisitions of Exar and the G.hn business, partially offset by an increase in acquired intangible amortization of $10.5 million primarily related to these acquisitions. The increase in gross profit percentage for the year ended December 31, 2018 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 , was due to the decrease in acquired inventory step-up amortization. Cost of net revenue increased $54.5 million to $212.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $157.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily driven by increased inventory step-up amortization of $19.9 million and acquired intangible amortization of $16.8 million primarily related to the acquisitions of Exar, the G.hn business, and the wireless infrastructure businesses, respectively, and higher sales. The decrease in gross profit percentage for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 , was due to a decrease in sales of higher margin products and the previously mentioned increase in amortization of inventory step-up and intangible amortization. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 120,046 $ 112,279 $ 97,745 7 % 15 % % of net revenue 31 % 27 % 25 % Research and development expense increased $7.8 million to $120.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 from $112.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in prototype expenses of $4.3 million for new projects in the 2018 period, and an increase in payroll-related expenses of $3.4 million primarily related to the acquisitions of Exar and the G.hn business. In addition, occupancy expenses increased by $0.8 million partially due to new office leases as well as leases assumed in the 2017 acquisitions; equipment rentals and maintenance increased by $0.3 million; and travel-related expense increased by $0.3 million. Such increases were partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expense of $1.0 million as certain fixed assets reached the end of their useful lives, and a decrease in outside services of $0.3 million. 58 Research and development expense increased $14.5 million to $112.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $97.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increases in payroll-related expense of $11.2 million, computer-aided design tools expense of $2.1 million, and depreciation expense of $1.9 million related to our acquisitions of Exar, the G.hn business, and the wireless infrastructure businesses, respectively. These increases were partially offset by lower prototype expenses of $1.2 million due to timing of projects. We expect our research and development expenses to decrease or remain relatively flat in the near term; however, our expenses may increase in the future as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 101,789 $ 105,831 $ 64,454 (4 )% 64 % % of net revenue 26 % 25 % 17 % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $4.0 million to $101.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , as compared to $105.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The decrease was primarily due to decreases in professional fees of $9.9 million primarily related to merger and acquisition expenses in the prior year, commission expense of $1.9 million, outside services of $0.4 million, and depreciation of $0.2 million. These decreases were partially offset by increases in payroll-related expenses of $5.3 million and intangible asset amortization of $3.1 million mainly related to previously mentioned acquisitions in 2017. Selling, general and administrative expense increased $41.4 million to $105.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to $64.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increases, including a full year impact of certain expenses, in intangible amortization expense of $21.9 million, payroll-related expenses of $9.7 million, professional fees of $7.8 million and occupancy expenses of $1.2 million, each primarily related to our acquisitions of Exar and the G.hn business, and the wireless infrastructure businesses, respectively. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to decrease or remain relatively flat in the near-term; however, our expenses may increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable market expansion. Impairment Losses Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Impairment losses $ 2,198 $ 2,000 $ 1,300 10% 54% % of net revenue 1 % % % Impairment losses increased $0.2 million to $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Impairment losses increased $0.7 million to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Impairment losses in 2018 consisted of acquired developed technology of Exar. Impairment losses in 2017 consisted of acquired in-process research and development technology of Exar. Impairment losses in 2016 consisted of acquired in-process R&D technology of the wireless infrastructure access business. Restructuring charges Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 3,838 $ 9,524 $ 3,432 (60)% 178% % of net revenue 1 % 2 % 1 % 59 Restructuring charges decreased $5.7 million to $3.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Restructuring charges increased $6.1 million to $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Restructuring charges in 2018 primarily consisted of severance-related charges of $2.1 million in connection with employee separation expenses and lease restructuring charges of $1.6 million related to exiting certain redundant facilities. Restructuring charges in 2017 primarily consisted of $5.1 million of incremental stock-based compensation from the acceleration of certain stock-based awards we assumed from Exar due to change in control provisions upon termination or diminution of authority of former Exar executives, other severance-related charges of $3.2 million , and lease restructuring charges of $1.0 million related to exiting certain redundant facilities. Restructuring charges in 2016 primarily consisted of lease and leasehold impairment charges of $2.3 million and employee severance and stock compensation expenses of $1.0 million . Lease restructuring charges in 2016 primarily related to adjustments to the estimates of net present value of the remaining lease obligation for actual sublease income and period costs associated with certain vacated facilities, including commissions to brokers involved in subleasing property, under lease arrangements, and exiting certain other leased facilities. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (13,755 ) $ (12,327 ) $ 631 12 % (2,054 )% % of net revenue (4 )% (3 )% % Interest and other income (expense), net changed by $1.4 million from a net expense of $12.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2017 to a net expense of $13.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 . The change in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily due to an increase in interest expense of $3.9 million related to interest charges on debt outstanding under our term loan facility, which was partially offset by an increase in other income of $2.6 million primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency transactions. Interest and other income (expense), net reversed by $13.0 million to $12.3 million of net expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The decrease in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily due to interest expense of $10.4 million related to interest charges on debt outstanding under our term loan facility during 2017, as well as increases in other expenses related to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions as a result of increased activities from existing and recently acquired foreign subsidiaries. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Years Ended December 31, % Change 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 (dollars in thousands) Income tax provision (benefit) $ (6,653 ) $ (24,811 ) $ 2,398 (73 )% (1,135 )% % of pre-tax income (loss) 20 % 73 % 4 % The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $6.7 million or approximately 20% of pre-tax loss compared to an income tax benefit of $24.8 million or approximately 73% of pre-tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The income tax provision in the year ended December 31, 2016 was $2.4 million or approximately 4% of pre-tax income . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, which included the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. Additionally, in April 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which reduced our Singapore corporate tax rate from 17% to a concessionary rate as described in more detail below. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily related to a partial release of our valuation allowance as a result of the Tax Act and the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation, and release of uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10. 60 The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily related to the release of the federal valuation allowance in 2017, partially offset by certain discrete tax effects related to initial intercompany royalties from our Singapore subsidiary to our U.S. parent and the impacts of reductions in our U.S. federal corporate tax rates under the Tax Act and reductions to our foreign corporate tax rates on our deferred income taxes in Singapore as a result of the concessionary income tax rates in Singapore. The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2017 included provisional estimates for certain tax effects of the Tax Act for which accounting under ASC 740 was incomplete. Provisional amounts related to the Tax Act were subject to adjustment during a one-year measurement period, which ended December 31, 2018. During 2018, we recorded an additional income tax benefit of $11.3 million for a reduction to our federal valuation allowance on certain net operating loss carryforwards as a result of additional projected federal taxable income resulting from the Tax Act. Other changes to provisional amounts related to the Tax Act did not have a material impact on our income tax benefit for 2018. The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily related to federal alternative minimum tax due to our limitation on use of net operating losses, credit carryforwards, state income taxes, and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Certain significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter during which they occur and can be a source of variability in the effective tax rates from quarter to quarter. During 2016, we adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation, which resulted in the recognition of net excess tax benefits on share-based awards within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statement of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2016, the impact of including net excess tax benefits was to reduce the provision for income taxes by $8.3 million in the consolidated statement of operations. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, in 2017, we released $51.2 million in valuation allowance against certain of our deferred tax assets. In 2018, we released an additional $11.3 million of our valuation allowance as a result of the completion of our analysis of the effects of the Tax Act. We continue to have a valuation allowance on state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We do not incur income tax expense or benefit in certain tax-free jurisdictions in which we operate. In the quarter ended June 30, 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the year ending December 31, 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $73.1 million , restricted cash of $1.0 million , and net accounts receivable of $59.5 million . Additionally, as of December 31, 2018 , our working capital was $110.0 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory, property and equipment, intangible assets, and from time to time, the acquisition of businesses. We also use cash to pay down outstanding debt. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, and impairment of intangible assets. Cash used to fund acquisitions of businesses and other capital purchases is included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash used to pay down outstanding debt is included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by 61 the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. Our credit agreement, under which we entered into a term loan to partially fund our acquisition of Exar, permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. We have not requested any incremental loans to date. Following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods indicated: December 31, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Working capital $ 110,044 $ 124,918 Cash and cash equivalents $ 73,142 $ 71,872 Short-term restricted cash 645 1,476 Long-term restricted cash 404 1,064 Total cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments $ 74,191 $ 74,412 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 102,689 $ 75,064 $ 117,317 Net cash used in investing activities (7,825 ) (432,151 ) (101,313 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (93,784 ) 347,021 (670 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,301 ) 1,582 (394 ) Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (221 ) $ (8,484 ) $ 14,940 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $102.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of positive cash flow from $100.3 million in non-cash expenses and $28.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by net loss of $26.2 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 primarily included depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, and acquired intangible assets of $79.0 million , stock-based compensation of $31.7 million , and impairment of intangible assets of $2.2 million , partially offset by deferred income taxes of $12.1 million and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $2.0 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $75.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of $89.8 million in non-cash operating expenses, partially offset by net loss of $9.2 million and $5.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, respectively. Non-cash items included in net loss for the year ended December 31, 2017 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $66.7 million , stock-based compensation of $32.7 million , amortization of step-up to fair value of acquired inventory of $25.6 million , loss on foreign currency of $2.2 million , and impairment charges on intangible assets of $2.0 million , partially offset by deferred income taxes of $31.8 million and excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $8.6 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $117.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of net income of $61.3 million , $48.2 million in non-cash operating expenses, and $7.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2016 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $26.7 million , stock based compensation of $21.8 million , amortization of inventory step up of $5.6 million , impairment charges on intangible assets of $1.3 million , and impairment and restructuring on leases of $0.4 million , partially offset by excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $8.3 million . 62 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted entirely of $ 7.8 million in purchases of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $432.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $452.3 million in cash used in the acquisition of Exar, net of cash acquired, $21.0 million in cash used in the acquisition of the G.hn business, $30.6 million in purchases of securities, $7.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, and $5.4 million in purchases of intangible assets, partially offset by $84.5 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $101.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash used in investing activities primarily consisted of $101.0 million cash used in our acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure access and backhaul businesses, $90.3 million in purchases of securities, and $8.5 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $98.9 million in maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $93.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of cash outflows from aggregate prepayments of principal of $93.0 million and $7.6 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by cash inflows of $6.8 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options. Net cash provided by financing activities was $347.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $416.8 million in net proceeds from borrowings under a term loan we entered in connection with the acquisition of Exar and $12.1 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by $70.0 million in aggregate prepayments of principal on outstanding debt and $11.5 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $7.3 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by $6.6 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. We believe that our $73.1 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2018 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have repaid $163.0 million of debt to date. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement or new lenders. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2018, we issued 0.3 million freely-tradable shares of our common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the 2017 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2018, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. 63 Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of December 31, 2018 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2018 , future minimum payments under long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations were as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years (in thousands) Long-term debt obligations $ 262,000 $ $ $ $ 262,000 Operating lease obligations 33,943 9,365 18,862 5,716 Inventory purchase obligations 65,661 65,661 Other obligations 14,375 8,386 5,117 872 Total $ 375,979 $ 83,412 $ 23,979 $ 6,588 $ 262,000 Other obligations consist of contractual payments due for software licenses. Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2018 included $7.3 million in other long-term liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as other long-term liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities.