ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio-frequency, or RF, high-performance analog, and mixed-signal communications systems-on-chip solutions for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. We are a fabless integrated circuit design company whose products integrate all or substantial portions of a broadband communication system. In most cases, these products are designed on a single silicon-die, using standard digital CMOS processes and conventional packaging technologies. We believe this enables our solutions to achieve superior power, performance, and cost advantages relative to our industry competition. Our customers include electronics distributors, module makers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), and original design manufacturers (ODMs), who incorporate our products in a wide range of electronic devices. Examples of such end market electronic devices incorporating our products include cable DOCSIS broadband modems and gateways; wireline connectivity devices for in-home networking applications; RF transceivers and modems for wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure; fiber-optic modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport networks; video set-top boxes and gateways; hybrid analog and digital televisions, direct broadcast satellite outdoor and indoor units; and power management and interface products used in these and a range of other markets. We combine our high-performance RF and mixed-signal semiconductor design skills with our expertise in digital communications systems, software, high-performance analog, and embedded systems to provide highly integrated semiconductor devices and platform-level solutions that are manufactured using a range of semiconductor manufacturing processes, including low-cost complementary metal oxide semiconductor, or CMOS, process technology, Silicon Germanium, Gallium Arsenide, BiCMOS and Indium Phosphide process technologies. Our ability to design analog and mixed-signal circuits in CMOS allows us to efficiently combine analog and digital signal processing functionality in the same integrated circuit. As a result, our solutions have high levels of functional integration and performance, small silicon die size, and low power consumption. Moreover, we are uniquely positioned to offer customers a combination of proprietary CMOS-based radio system architectures that provide the benefits of superior RF system performance, along with high-performance analog interface and power management solutions that enable shorter design cycles, significant design flexibility, and low system cost across a wide range of broadband communications, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multimarket applications. 30 Table of Contents In the three months ended March 31, 2020, revenues were $62.0 million. In fiscal 2019 and in the three months ended March 31, 2020, our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; changes in government trade policies; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 84% and 85% of net revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, including 50% from products shipped to Hong Kong during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 45% from products shipped to Hong Kong and 22% to mainland China during the three months ended March 31, 2019. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. Sales to customers comprise both direct sales to customers and indirect sales through distributors. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, one of our distributor customers accounted for 18% of our net revenue and one of our direct customers accounted for 10% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 68% of our net revenue, of which distributor customers accounted for 48% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. Impact of COVID-19 In late January 2020 and early February 2020, in response to a severe outbreak of the novel coronavirus disease, or COVID-19, the government of China instituted mandatory quarantines in Wuhan, China, extended lunar new year holiday closures, and restricted shipments out of the country. This resulted in a temporary delay in our product shipments in the first quarter of 2020. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared a global pandemic regarding COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic has reached all of the countries and states in which we operate, including in California where our headquarters and central engineering team are located, as well as Spain, India, Singapore, Taiwan, Canada, France, Japan and South Korea, where additional engineering, sales, and administrative personnel are located. In many of these jurisdictions, local authorities have also instituted stay-at-home or shelter-in-place orders. To protect the health and safety of our employees, we adopted social distancing policies including suspending employee travel and implementing remote work arrangements for substantially all of our workforce worldwide. In addition, we have experienced some impact to our net revenue and gross profits in the first quarter 2020 due to several industry-wide dynamics related to COVID-19, including the supply constraints described above, as well as certain customer push-out requests. Further, global financial markets have reacted negatively to the 31 Table of Contents COVID-19 pandemics impacts causing significant declines in the stock price and market capitalization of many companies across all industries. Heightened volatility and uncertainty in customer demand and the worldwide economy has continued since March 31, 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may experience decreased sales and revenues in the near future. We believe such impact may in particular affect our sales of high performance analog products in our industrial and multi-market business, and may impact the rest of our business to some degree. However, the magnitude of such impact on our business and its duration is uncertain and cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As described below, on April 6, 2020, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities from Intel Corporation related to its Home Gateway Platform Division. This business also operates in jurisdictions that have been and continue to be materially affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, the Intel division has major engineering, development, and other personnel whom we expect to become our employees in Germany, Austria, Israel, India, Singapore, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and China. Attempting to complete and integrate an acquisition of assets and new personnel around the world will be substantially complicated by continuing restrictions on travel and social distancing. In addition, engagement with and making offers to Intel employees that we are seeking to transfer to the Company in connection with the acquisition will be similarly complicated and presents potential employee retention risks. We are taking various steps to mitigate these risks, but we cannot predict whether or to what extent the pandemic may adversely affect the timing of completion of the acquisition or our ability to retain employees and successfully integrate the acquired business. In addition, the operating results of the acquired business are subject to the same financial and operational risks posed to MaxLinears current businesses, including potential declines in revenues, supply constraints, and other factors generally affecting businesses worldwide. For further discussion of potential risks arising from the acquisition, please see the discussion in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q captioned Risk Factors. Recent Developments Acquisition of Home Gateway Platform Division of Intel Corporation On April 5, 2020, we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Intel Corporation, or Intel, under which we and our wholly owned Singapore subsidiary agreed to acquire certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the Home Gateway Platform Division of Intel, which we refer to as the WiFi and Broadband assets business, for a purchase price of $150.0 million in cash payable upon closing of the transaction. The transaction is currently expected to close in the third quarter of 2020. We intend to fund the transaction primarily with approximately $140.0 million of new transaction debt and approximately $10.0 million in cash from the Companys balance sheet. The Companys board of directors has unanimously approved the asset purchase agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. In connection with the asset purchase agreement, we entered into a debt commitment letter effective April 5, 2020 with certain initial lenders who have committed to provide a secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $140.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions. The facilities are available to finance the acquisition and to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith. The commitment letter provides that the term loan facility will have a three-year term and that term loans will bear interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR plus a fixed applicable margin of 4.25% per annum or an Adjusted Base Rate plus a fixed applicable margin of 3.25% per annum, at our option. The incremental term loan facility will be subject to a financial covenant of an initial maximum total net leverage ratio of 3.5 to 1 which decreases to 3.0 to 1 beginning with the sixth full fiscal quarter ending after the close of the transaction. The definitive documentation governing the debt financing has not been finalized, and, accordingly, the actual terms may differ from the description of such terms in the commitment letter. For more information, please refer to Note 14 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. 32 Table of Contents We believe that accounting policies we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 5, 2020, or our Annual Report. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial InstrumentsCredit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments , to replace the incurred loss methodology with an expected credit loss model that requires consideration of a broader range of information to estimate credit losses over the lifetime of the asset, including current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts in addition to historical loss information, to determine expected credit losses. Also, in April 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial InstrumentsCredit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments, to clarify the inclusion of recoveries of trade receivables previously written off when estimating an allowance for credit losses. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods. The adoption of the amendments in this update as of January 1, 2020 did not have a material impact on our accounts receivable, net and accumulated deficit, as well as our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The adoption is also not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as of and for the year ending December 31, 2020. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods. We perform our annual goodwill testing as of October 31, or more frequently if there are indicators of impairment. The application of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as of and for the year ending December 31, 2020. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement , to improve the fair value measurement reporting of financial instruments. The amendments in this update require, among other things, added disclosure of the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update eliminate, among other things, disclosure of the reasons for and amounts of transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis and an entitys valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020. Retrospective application is required for all amendments in this update except the added disclosures, which should be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amendments in this update in the quarter ended March 31, 2020 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and is also not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as of and for the year ending December 31, 2020. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, IntangiblesGoodwill and OtherInternal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That is a Service Contract , to provide additional guidance on the accounting for costs of implementing cloud computing arrangements that are service contracts. The amendments in this update require the capitalization of implementation costs during the application development stage of such hosting arrangements and amortization of the expense over the term of the arrangement including any option to extend reasonably certain to be exercised or option to terminate reasonably certain not to be exercised. Capitalized implementation costs and amortization thereof are also required to be classified in the same line item in the statements of financial position, operations and cash flows associated with the hosting service fees. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020. We selected prospective application to all implementation costs incurred after 33 Table of Contents the adoption date. The adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our property and equipment, net and results of operations as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and is also not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations as of and for the year ending December 31, 2020. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-12 Income Taxes (Topic 740)Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes , to remove certain exceptions and improve consistency of application, including, among other things, requiring that an entity reflect the effect of an enacted change in tax laws or rates in the annual effective tax rate computation in the interim period that includes the enactment date. The amendments in this update will be effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2021, with early adoption permitted. Most amendments within the standard are required to be applied on a prospective basis, while certain amendments must be applied on a retrospective or modified retrospective basis. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our unaudited consolidated statements of operations. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, analog and mixed signal integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our sales are to distributors, who then resell our products. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Impairment Losses. Impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of acquired intangible assets. Restructuring Charges . Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Income Tax Benefit. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income taxes for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 50 47 Gross profit 50 53 Operating expenses: Research and development 41 32 Selling, general and administrative 40 28 Impairment losses Restructuring charges 1 2 Total operating expenses 82 63 Loss from operations (32) (9) Total interest and other income (expense), net (3) (4) Loss before income taxes (36) (13) Income tax benefit (11) (8) Net loss (25) % (6) % Net Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Connected home $ 32,254 $ 43,432 $ (11,178) (26) % % of net revenue 52 % 51 % Infrastructure 17,542 22,102 (4,560) (21) % % of net revenue 28 % 26 % Industrial and multi-market 12,231 19,101 (6,870) (36) % % of net revenue 20 % 23 % Total net revenue $ 62,027 $ 84,635 $ (22,608) (27 %) Net revenue decreased $22.6 million to $62.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $84.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease in connected home net revenue of $11.2 million was primarily driven by a slowdown in the satellite and cable markets, owing to reduced operator spending, the market transition from DOCSIS 3.0 to DOCSIS 3.1 and related customer inventory reductions, as well as the impact of several industry-wide dynamics related to coronavirus disease (COVID-19), including supply constraints early in the quarter, and certain customer push-out requests. Our MoCA shipments also declined owing to a pause in a ramp up, or expected increase in revenue, related to a new program at a large telecommunications customer. The decrease in infrastructure revenues of $4.6 million was primarily driven by decreased high performance analog, wireless backhaul, and high-speed interconnect shipments in this category. The decrease in industrial and multi-market revenue of $6.9 million was related to decreased shipments of high performance analog products in this category, which we attribute primarily to the impact of COVID-19. We currently expect that revenue will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on evolving customer demand for existing products, the pace of adoption of newer products, and macroeconomic conditions. Further, due to heightened volatility and uncertainty in customer demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we may experience decreased sales and revenues. We believe such impact may in particular affect our sales of high performance analog products in our industrial and multi-market business. 35 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 31,265 $ 39,558 $ (8,293) (21) % % of net revenue 50 % 47 % Gross profit 30,762 45,077 (14,315) (32) % % of net revenue 50 % 53 % Cost of net revenue decreased $8.3 million to $31.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $39.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales. Gross profit percentage declined for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019, due to product mix. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Further, due to heightened volatility and uncertainty in customer demand resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we may experience decreased cost of net revenues resulting from decreased sales and revenues. We believe such impact may in particular affect our costs of sales on high performance analog products in our industrial and multi-market business. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 25,689 $ 27,399 $ (1,710) (6) % % of net revenue 41 % 32 % Research and development expense decreased $1.7 million to $25.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 from $27.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was primarily due to decreases in prototype expenses of $2.0 million due to timing of projects, payroll-related expenses of $0.3 million due to lower headcount, depreciation expense of $0.2 million as a result of certain machinery and equipment reaching the end of their useful lives, and occupancy expenses of $0.2 million from terminated leases. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in outside services expenses of $1.1 million mainly related to consulting and design tools. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 24,632 $ 23,591 $ 1,041 4 % % of net revenue 40 % 28 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased $1.0 million to $24.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $23.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The increase was primarily due to an increase in professional fees of $2.5 million mainly related to our acquisition activities during the three months ended March 31, 2020. This increase was partially offset by decreases in payroll-related expenses of $0.6 million due to lower headcount, outside services expenses of $0.4 million due to completion of certain vendor services, travel expenses of $0.3 million, and depreciation expenses of $0.2 million mainly due to the restructuring of certain leasehold improvement assets. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses other than acquisition transaction costs to remain relatively flat in the near-term; however, our expenses will increase in the future as we grow our sales and marketing organization to expand into existing and new markets. 36 Table of Contents Impairment Losses Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Impairment losses $ 86 $ $ 86 100 % % of net revenue % % Impairment losses increased $0.1 million to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Impairment losses in the 2020 period related to abandonment of a license of intellectual property. Restructuring Charges Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 489 $ 1,917 $ (1,428) (74) % % of net revenue 1 % 2 % Restructuring charges decreased $1.4 million to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Restructuring charges in the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily consisted of lease-related charges of approximately $0.3 million. Restructuring charges in the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily consisted of lease-related charges of approximately $1.3 million and severance-related and other charges totaling approximately $0.6 million. Interest and Other Income (Expense ) Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (2,071) $ (3,483) $ 1,412 (41) % % of net revenue (3) % (4) % Interest and other income (expense), net changed by $1.4 million from a net expense of $3.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 to a net expense of $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The change in interest and other income (expense), net was primarily due to favorable foreign currency exchange of $0.9 million and a decrease in interest expense of $0.5 million pertaining to a lower average balance of debt outstanding under our term loan facility during the period. Income Tax Benefit Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Income tax benefit $ (6,736) $ (6,462) $ (274) 4 % The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $6.7 million compared to an income tax benefit of $6.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 each primarily related to the mix of pre-tax income among jurisdictions, excess tax deficiencies and benefits, respectively, related to stock-based compensation, and release of certain reserves for uncertain tax positions under ASC 740-10. Also included in income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was a tax benefit related to the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, or CARES Act, enacted effective March 27, 2020. Such tax benefit relates to our ability to carry back our 2019 net operating loss, originally valued at a 21% federal tax rate, to offset income taxes paid in prior periods at the 35% federal tax rate in effect at that time. 37 Table of Contents We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain federal and foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we continue to have a valuation allowance on state deferred tax assets, certain federal deferred tax assets, and certain foreign deferred tax assets in jurisdictions where we have cumulative losses or otherwise are not expected to utilize certain tax attributes. We do not incur income tax expense or benefit in certain tax-free jurisdictions in which we operate. Our subsidiary in Singapore operates under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event we do not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the year ending December 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $98.4 million, restricted cash of $0.1 million and net accounts receivable of $44.8 million. Additionally, as of March 31, 2020, our working capital was $118.2 million. Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory, property and equipment, intangible assets, and from time to time, the acquisition of businesses. We also use cash to pay down outstanding debt. We expect to fund our pending acquisition of the WiFi and Broadband assets business with approximately $140.0 million of new transaction debt and approximately $10.0 million in cash from our balance sheet. Such transaction is currently expected to close in the third quarter of 2020. Heightened volatility and uncertainty in customer demand and the worldwide economy in general continues to impact business and financial markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may experience decreased sales and revenues in the near future. A material adverse impact from COVID-19 could result in a need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we pursue additional acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the potential impact of the WiFi and Broadband assets business and our efforts to integrate that business, changes in revenue, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations or execute our strategic plans. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation, amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets, leased right-of-use assets and property and equipment, and impairment of intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets. Cash used to fund capital purchases is included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash used to pay down outstanding debt is included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. Our credit agreement, under which we entered into a term loan to partially fund our acquisition of Exar, permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. We requested an incremental loan under this credit agreement with new initial lenders in connection with the pending acquisition transaction. 38 Table of Contents Following is a summary of our working capital, cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash for the periods indicated: March 31, December 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Working capital $ 118,181 $ 115,208 Cash and cash equivalents $ 98,373 $ 92,708 Short-term restricted cash 10 349 Long-term restricted cash 57 60 Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 98,440 $ 93,117 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 6,648 $ 16,045 Net cash used in investing activities (1,035) (2,155) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 13 (16,791) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (303) 577 Increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 5,323 $ (2,324) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of positive cash flow from $17.8 million in non-cash items and $4.2 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by net loss of $15.5 million and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $0.1 million. Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2020 primarily included depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets of $16.7 million and stock-based compensation of $6.8 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $16.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Net cash provided by operating activities consisted of positive cash flow from $26.4 million in non-cash expenses and $2.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by deferred income taxes and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $8.2 million and net loss of $4.9 million. Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily included depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, acquired intangible assets and leased right-of-use assets of $16.9 million and stock-based compensation of $7.7 million. During the first quarter of 2019, we also exited certain leased facilities, which resulted in impairments of leased right-of-use assets of $2.2 million and leasehold improvements of $1.4 million, which was partially offset by a gain on extinguishment of related lease liabilities of $2.9 million. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and consisted entirely of purchases of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and consisted entirely of purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.01 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Net cash provided by financing activities consisted primarily of cash inflows from net proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options, partially offset by minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. 39 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities was $16.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Net cash used in financing activities consisted primarily of cash outflows from aggregate principal prepayments of debt of $15.0 million and $4.4 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, partially offset by cash inflows of $2.6 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock upon exercise of stock options. We believe that our $98.4 million of cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2020 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. We have repaid $213.0 million of debt through March 31, 2020. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement or new lenders. The initial term loan facility has a seven-year term expiring in May 2024 and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin. We expect to fund our pending acquisition of the WiFi and Broadband assets business with approximately $140.0 million of new transaction debt and approximately $10.0 million in cash from our balance sheet. Such transaction is currently expected to close in the third quarter of 2020. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in March 2020, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the 2019 performance period. We expect to implement a similar equity-based plan for fiscal 2020, but our compensation committee retains discretion to effect payment in cash, stock, or a combination of cash and stock. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2020, we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2020, future minimum payments under long-term debt, non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations were as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years (in thousands) Long-term debt obligations $ 212,000 $ $ $ 212,000 Operating lease obligations 13,696 3,989 8,692 1,015 Inventory purchase obligations 22,252 22,252 Other obligations 5,827 2,985 2,395 447 Total $ 253,775 $ 29,226 $ 11,087 $ 213,462 Other obligations consist of contractual payments due for software licenses. Our consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2020 included $6.1 million in other long-term liabilities for uncertain tax positions, some of which may result in cash payment. The future payments related to uncertain tax positions recorded as other 40 Table of Contents long-term liabilities have not been presented in the table above due to the uncertainty of the amounts and timing of cash settlement with the taxing authorities. Our contractual obligations including long-term debt, leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations, increased by $3.9 million to $253.8 million as of March 31, 2020, from $249.8 million as of December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of increased orders of inventory placed with our vendors, partially offset by contractual payments made on our operating leases, software licenses and outstanding inventory orders during the period.