ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The information in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements and information within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning our strategy, future operations, future financial position, future revenues, projected costs, prospects and plans and objectives of management. The words anticipates, believes, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, projects, will, would and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. We may not actually achieve the plans, intentions or expectations disclosed in our forward-looking statements, and you should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. Actual results or events could differ materially from the plans, intentions and expectations disclosed in the forward-looking statements that we make. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, the risks set forth in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. We do not assume any obligation to update any forward-looking statements. Overview We are a provider of integrated, radio-frequency and mixed-signal integrated circuits for broadband communications and data center, metro, and long-haul transport network applications. Our high performance radio-frequency, or RF, receiver products capture and process digital and analog broadband signals to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip, or SoCs, which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to receive and demodulate broadband signals, and physical medium devices that provide a constant current source, current-to-voltage regulation, and data alignment and retiming functionality in optical interconnect applications. Our current products receive and process RF and digital signals and enable the display of broadband video and data content in a wide range of electronic devices, including cable and terrestrial and satellite set top boxes, DOCSIS data and voice gateways, and hybrid analog and digital televisions, satellite low-noise blocker transponders or outdoor units and optical modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport network applications. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $133.1 million in fiscal 2014. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of cable modems and gateways and global digital RF receiver products for analog and digital television applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set top boxes and cable modems and gateways for the cable and satellite industries. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 91% and 97% of net revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2015 , and March 31, 2014 , respectively. A significant but declining portion of these sales in Asia is through distributors. Although a large percentage of our products is shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set top box products during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 related principally to sales to Asian set top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, all of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , two of our customers accounted for 43% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 73% of our net revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2014 , one of our customers accounted for 34% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 70% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems and cable set-top boxes. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume 22 production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the satellite operator gateway and outdoor unit sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 months to 60 months and beyond. Recent Developments On April 30, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc., or Entropic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement dated as of February 3, 2015 that we entered into with Entropic and two of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, all of the Entropic outstanding shares were converted into the right to receive consideration consisting of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. We paid an aggregate of approximately $111.0 million and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock, to the stockholders of Entropic. In addition, we assumed all outstanding Entropic stock options and unvested restricted stock units that were held by continuing service providers (as defined in the merger agreement). We used Entropics cash and cash equivalents to fund a significant portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration and, to a lesser extent, our own cash and cash equivalents. The integration and fair value of acquired Entropic assets and liabilities will impact our post-acquisition financial condition and results of operations. Entropic is recognized for having pioneered the MoCA (Multimedia over Coax Alliance) home networking standard and inventing Direct Broadcast Satellite (DBS) outdoor unit single-wire technology. Entropic has a rich history of innovation and deep expertise in RF, analog/mixed signal and digital signal processing technologies. Entropics silicon solutions have been broadly deployed across major cable, satellite, and fiber service providers. We believe our acquisition of Entropic will add significant scale to our analog/mixed-signal business, expanding our addressable market and enhancing the strategic value of our offerings to our broadband and access partners, OEM customers, and service providers. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, production masks, income taxes, stock-based compensation, goodwill and intangible assets and impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. There were no significant changes during the quarter ended March 31, 2015 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 contained in the Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 23, 2015, as amended by Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on March 12, 2015. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of integrated radio frequency analog and mixed signal semiconductor solutions for broadband communication applications. A significant but declining portion of our end customers purchase products indirectly from us through distributors. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based 23 compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, distributor and other third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Interest Income. Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of imputed interest on i) the purchase of licensed technology and ii) property and equipment capital leases. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. Comparison of the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 The following table presents a comparison of each line item in the consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 39 38 Gross profit 61 62 Operating expenses: Research and development 43 40 Selling, general and administrative 31 24 Total operating expenses 74 64 Loss from operations (13 ) (2 ) Interest income Interest expense Other expense, net Loss before provision for income taxes (13 ) (2 ) Provision for income taxes 1 Net loss (14 )% (2 )% 24 Net Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cable $ 23,472 $ 21,878 7 % % of net revenue 66 % 67 % Terrestrial 11,924 10,623 12 % % of net revenue 34 % 33 % Total net revenue $ 35,396 $ 32,501 9 % The increase in net revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , was primarily due to $1.6 million of growth in cable applications, contributed primarily by media server and DOCSIS 3.0 data gateway applications, which offset declines in other cable video applications. Growth in terrestrial revenue of $1.3 million was driven primarily by satellite and terrestrial set-top box applications, which offset declines in revenue from TV and auto applications. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 13,725 $ 12,448 10 % % of net revenue 39 % 38 % Gross profit 21,671 20,053 8 % % of net revenue 61 % 62 % The decline in the gross profit percentage for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , was due to the average selling prices of certain key products declining at a quicker rate than declines in their average manufacturing costs, driven primarily by higher manufacturing overhead expenses as a percentage of revenue. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from quarter-to-quarter, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 15,281 $ 13,095 17 % % of net revenue 43 % 40 % The increase in research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , was primarily due to an increase in headcount-related items (including stock-based compensation) of $0.7 million , combined increases in design tools, prototype, and occupancy expenses of $0.7 million , and severance expenses related to our exit of R&D related activities in Shanghai, China of $0.6 million. The increases in the headcount-related items are primarily due to increases in our average full-time-equivalent headcount compared to the same three month period of the prior year. The non-headcount related increases are primarily due to increased project related prototyping and design tools usage, and several facilities relocation and facilities expansions in Bangalore, India and Carlsbad, California. We expect our research and development expenses to increase as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. 25 Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 10,944 $ 7,761 41 % % of net revenue 31 % 24 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , was primarily due to transaction costs associated with our Entropic acquisition of $2.5 million, an increase in headcount-related items (including stock-based compensation) of $0.2 million and an increase in non-recurring legal fees of $0.3 million . We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets and continue to build our international administrative infrastructure. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Interest income $ 70 $ 61 Interest expense Other expense, net (34 ) (12 ) Interest income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due to higher cash equivalent and investment balances. Other expense, net in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 consisted primarily of losses on foreign currency transactions and investment management fees. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 204 $ 108 The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $0.2 million or approximately (4.5)% of pre-tax loss compared to a provision for income taxes of $0.1 million or approximately (14.3)% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 primarily relates to income tax in foreign jurisdictions. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset the federal and California deferred tax assets as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. We will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. Until such time that we remove the valuation allowance against our federal and California deferred tax assets, our provision for income taxes will primarily consist of taxes associated with our foreign subsidiaries. Furthermore, we do not incur expense or benefit in certain tax free jurisdictions in which we operate. Income tax expense in the foreign jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax is expected to remain relatively constant due to the cost plus nature of these entities and the relatively consistent operating expenses in each jurisdiction. Fluctuations in world-wide income occur mostly outside of these jurisdictions and therefore have an insignificant effect on our provision for income taxes. We expect this relationship to continue until the time that we either recognize all or a portion of our federal and California deferred tax assets or implement changes to our global operations. Subsequent Events 26 Acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc. For information on this subsequent event, please refer to the information presented in Note 1 Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc. to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. Entropic Communications Merger Litigation For information on this subsequent event please refer to Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies - Entropic Communications Merger Litigation to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $22.8 million , short- and long-term investments of $58.5 million , and net accounts receivable of $20.7 million . Following is a summary of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents and investments as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014: March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 (in thousands) Working capital $ 62,173 $ 67,668 Cash and cash equivalents $ 22,769 $ 20,696 Short-term investments 42,173 48,399 Long-term investments 16,332 10,256 Total cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 81,274 $ 79,351 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of $5.5 million in non-cash operating expenses and $3.0 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a net loss of $4.7 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2015 included depreciation and amortization expense of $1.6 million , amortization of net investment premiums of $0.1 million , and stock-based compensation of $3.7 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $4.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of $4.7 million in non-cash operating expenses and $0.2 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a net loss of $0.9 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2014 included depreciation and amortization expense of $1.1 million , amortization of net investment premiums of $0.2 million , and stock-based compensation of $3.4 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $16.2 million in purchases of securities and $ 1.0 million in purchases of property and equipment, offset by $16.2 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $18.7 million in purchases of securities and $1.4 million in purchases of property and equipment, offset by $18.2 million in maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted primarily of $0.2 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, offset by $0.3 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 consisted primarily of $0.05 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, offset by $0.1 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. We believe that our $22.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $58.5 million in short- and long-term investments at March 31, 2015 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our cash 27 and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2015 have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program. In connection with that bonus program, in May 2014, we issued 0.6 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the fiscal 2013 performance period under our bonus plan. At December 31, 2014, an accrual of $3.1 million was recorded for bonus awards for employees for the 2014 performance period, which we intend to settle in shares of our Class A common stock issued under its 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, with the number of shares issuable to plan participants determined based on the closing sales price of our Class A common stock as determined in trading on the New York Stock Exchange on the issuance date, expected to occur in May 2015. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to continue to fund our operations in the future. In particular, we may determine that we need to seek additional funding as our liquidity may be adversely affected as a result of the payment of the cash portion of the merger consideration. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. On April 30, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Entropic. We paid an aggregate of approximately $111.0 million and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock, to the stockholders of Entropic. The acquisition of Entropic may result in our seeking debt financing as management may determine necessary to ensure appropriate levels of working capital for the operation of the combined business of Entropic and MaxLinear. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2015 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes, outside of the ordinary course of business, in our outstanding contractual obligations from those disclosed within Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 23, 2015, as amended by Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on March 12, 2015. 28