ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio frequency, or RF, and mixed-signal integrated circuits for cable and satellite broadband communications and the connected home, and wired and wireless infrastructure markets. Our high performance RF receiver products capture and process digital and analog broadband signals to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip, or SoCs, which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to receive and demodulate broadband signals, modem solutions and physical medium devices that provide a constant current source, current-to-voltage regulation, and data alignment and retiming functionality in optical interconnect applications. Through our acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc., or Entropic, in April of 2015, and the acquisition of Marvell's G.hn business in April 2017, we provide semiconductor solutions for the connected home and home broadband access markets, including MoCA (Multimedia over Coax Alliance) and G.hn solutions that transform how traditional HDTV broadcast and Internet Protocol, or IP, based streaming video content is seamlessly, reliably, and securely distributed into and throughout the home. Through our acquisition of the Microsemi wireless infrastructure access business in April of 2016, we provide integrated circuits for wireless infrastructure markets, including wideband RF transceivers and synthesizers for 3G, 4G, and future 5G cellular base station and remote radio head (RRH) unit platforms. Through our acquisition of the Broadcom wireless infrastructure backhaul business in July of 2016, we also provide modem and RF transceiver solutions into cellular infrastructure backhaul applications. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $387.8 million in fiscal 2016 . In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , revenues were $88.8 million . In fiscal 2016 and in the three months ended March 31, 2017 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and MoCA connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways, and global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital Pay-TV applications. These analog and digital television applications include Direct Broadcast Satellite outdoor unit, or DBS ODU solutions, which consist of our translation switch, or BTS, and channel stacking switch, or CSS, products. These products simplify the installation required to support simultaneous reception of multiple channels from multiple satellites over a single cable. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend on, among other factors, our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the Cable infrastructure market, and manufacturers of optical module and telecommunications infrastructure equipment. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 95% and 94% in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Although a large percentage of our products are shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. There is a growing portion of our business, related specifically to our high-speed optical interconnect products, that are shipped to, and are ultimately consumed in Asian markets, with the majority of these products being purchased by end customers in China. 30 Table of Contents A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , one of our customers, Arris Group, Inc., or Arris, accounted for 31% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 70% of our net revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Arris accounted for 24% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 79% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the satellite operator gateway and DBS ODU sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. On April 30, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Entropic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement or merger agreements dated as of February 3, 2015, by and among MaxLinear, Entropic, and two wholly-owned subsidiaries of MaxLinear, all of the Entropic outstanding shares were converted into the right to receive consideration consisting of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. We paid an aggregate of $111.1 million in cash and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock to the stockholders of Entropic. In addition, we assumed all outstanding Entropic stock options and unvested restricted stock units that were held by continuing service providers (as defined in the merger agreement). We used Entropics cash and cash equivalents to fund a significant portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration and, to a lesser extent, our own cash and cash equivalents. On April 28, 2016 , we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc., formerly known as PMC-Sierra, Inc., or Microsemi, and consummated the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement. We paid cash consideration of $21.0 million for the purchase of certain wireless access assets of Microsemi's wireless infrastructure access business , and assumed certain specified liabilities. The assets acquired include, among other things, radio frequency and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation RF transceiver designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property, plant, and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees of the wireless infrastructure access business that were rehired by the Company. On May 9, 2016 , we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business of Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom. On July 1, 2016 , we consummated the transactions contemplated by the purchase agreement and paid aggregate cash consideration of $80.0 million and hired certain employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business . The assets acquired include, among other things, digital baseband, radio frequency, or RF, and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation digital baseband and RF transceiver integrated circuit and reference platform designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations, liabilities for technologies acquired, and a payable to Broadcom as reimbursement of costs associated with the termination of those employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business who were not hired by MaxLinear upon the closing of the acquisition. For more information, please refer to Note 3 of our consolidated financial statements. The acquired assets and liabilities, together with the rehired employees for each of these acquisitions, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations. We are integrating the acquired assets and rehired employees into our existing business. 31 Table of Contents Recent Developments On March 29, 2017, each share of our then outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock and shares underlying our then outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and restricted stock awards automatically converted into a single class of our common stock or rights to receive shares of a single class of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The conversion had no impact on the total number of issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock; the Class A shares and Class B shares converted into an equivalent number of shares of our common stock. In addition, the conversion did not increase the total number of authorized shares of our common stock, which prior to the conversion was, and remains, 550,000,000 shares. However, our total number of authorized shares of capital stock was reduced from 1,575,000,000 to 1,509,554,147, to account for the retirement of the Class A shares and Class B shares that were outstanding at the time of the conversion. Following the conversion, our authorized capital stock includes 441,123,947 Class A shares and 493,430,200 Class B shares, which represents Class A shares and Class B shares that were authorized but unissued at the time of the conversion. No additional Class A shares or Class B shares will be issued following the conversion. Following the conversion, each share of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share and otherwise has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences as the Class A common stock prior to the conversion. In addition, holders of our common stock vote as a single class of stock on any matter that is submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Prior to the conversion, the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock had identical voting rights, except that holders of Class A common stock were entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B common stock were entitled to ten votes per share with respect to transactions that would result in a change of control of our company or that relate to our equity incentive plans. In addition, holders of Class B common stock had the exclusive right to elect two members of our Board of Directors, each referred to as a Class B Director. The shares of our Class B common stock were not publicly traded. Each share of our Class B common stock was convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converted upon sale or other transfer. On March 29, 2017, we entered into a definitive agreement with Exar Corporation, or Exar, a designer and developer of high performance analog mixed-signal integrated circuits and sub-system solutions, under which we agreed to acquire Exar for $13.00 per share in cash or an aggregate amount of approximately $700 million, or $472 million net of Exars cash acquired. The boards of directors of both MaxLinear and Exar have unanimously approved the transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. The transaction is currently expected to close in the second quarter of 2017. We intend to fund the transaction with cash from the balance sheet of the combined companies and approximately $425.0 million of new transaction debt. For more information, please refer to Note 12 of our unaudited consolidated financial statements. On March 28, 2017, in connection with the merger agreement with Exar Corporation, we entered into a debt commitment letter with certain initial lenders who have committed to provide a secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $425.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain customary conditions. The facilities are available (i) to finance the Merger, refinance certain existing indebtedness of Exar and its subsidiaries, and fund all related transactions, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith and (iii) for working capital and general corporate purposes. The commitment letter provides that the term loan facility will have a seven-year term and that term loans will bear interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, and, in each case, plus a fixed applicable margin. The definitive documentation governing the debt financing has not been finalized, and accordingly, the actual terms may differ from the description of such terms in the commitment letter. On April 4, 2017, we consummated the transactions contemplated by a share and asset acquisition agreement with Marvell Semiconductor Inc., or Marvell, to purchase the Spain entity of Marvell along with the acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Marvells G.hn business for aggregate cash consideration of $21.0 million. We also hired certain employees of the G.hn business outside of Spain and assumed employment obligations for the Spanish entity we acquired, which is now a subsidiary of MaxLinear. The assets acquired include, among other things, patents and other intellectual property, a workforce-in-place and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees who joined MaxLinear and its subsidiaries as a result of the transaction. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities, together with the employees, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations . We intend to integrate the acquired assets and employees into our existing business. In April 2017, we began operating under certain favorable tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. The incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds over time. 32 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that accounting policies we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 9, 2017, or our Annual Report. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides for new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. Adoption of the amendments in this guidance is expected to accelerate the timing of our revenue recognition on products sold via distributors which will change from the sell-through method to the sell-in method. We currently have no plans to alter our selling practices or terms of sales through distributors in anticipation of adoption of the amendments in this guidance. We have performed a preliminary assessment of the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations and believe the change would not have a material impact on our revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018 and comparative periods expected to be presented, based on the current volume and amount of distributor transactions. We plan to apply the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of adoption. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires inventory to be subsequently measured using the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. ASU 2015-11 is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 and has been applied prospectively. The adoption of ASU No. 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . The amendments in this update include a requirement to measure equity investments (except equity method investments) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; previously changes in fair value were recognized in other comprehensive income. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not 33 Table of Contents to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the amendments in this update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations; however, adoption of the amendments in this update is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net ) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with the new revenue recognition standard. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation to simplify certain aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions associated with income taxes, classification as equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2017, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. Early adoption, if elected, must be completed for all of the amendments in the same period. The new guidance requires, among other things, excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded on a prospective basis in the income statement in the provision for income taxes when awards vest or are settled. On the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits must be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity on either a prospective transition method or a retrospective transition method. Also, because excess tax benefits are no longer recognized in additional paid-in capital, the assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing earnings per share is amended to exclude the amount of excess tax benefits that would be recognized in additional paid-in capital. We adopted ASU No. 2016-09 during the quarter ended June 30, 2016, as previously described in our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on August 8, 2016. ASU No. 2016-09 permitted early adoption in an interim period but required the adjustments to be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period and accordingly, we restated previously reported results for the three months ended March 31, 2016. The impact of adoption on our previously reported results for the three months ended March 31, 2016 is shown below and related to the inclusion of excess tax benefits in the provision for income taxes on a prospective basis as of the beginning of the period and the exclusion of excess tax benefits that would have been recognized in additional paid-in capital in assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method in the calculation of earnings per share. Three months ended March 31, 2016 As reported As adjusted (in thousands, except per share amounts) Provision for income taxes $ 2,558 $ 993 Net income $ 19,116 $ 20,681 Basic earnings per share $ 0.31 $ 0.33 Diluted earnings per share $ 0.29 $ 0.31 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 65,818 66,643 There was no cumulative effect on retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet upon adoption since we have a full valuation allowance against U.S. deferred tax assets. We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures of share-based awards resulting in no impact to stock-based compensation expense, and are also continuing to classify cash paid by us when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes in cash flows from financing activities. On the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits were classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity upon adoption on a prospective basis. 34 Table of Contents In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments, including, among other things, contingent consideration payments made following a business combination and proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims in the statement of cash flows. Cash payments not made soon after the acquisition date up to the amount of the contingent consideration liability recognized at the acquisition date should be classified as financing activities, with any excess payments classified as operating activities, whereas cash payments made soon after the acquisition date to settle the contingent consideration should be classified as investing activities. Cash proceeds received from settlement of insurance claims should be classified on the basis of the nature of the related losses. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected have a material impact on our consolidated statement of cash flows. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party. The FASB decided that an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The amendments in this update should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, including interim reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted as of the first quarter of fiscal 2017, or the beginning of the annual reporting period only. We have elected to early adopt the amendments in this update in the three months ended March 31, 2017. Due to a full valuation allowance on U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets, the adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash . The amendments in this update require that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. When cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents are presented in more than one line item within the statement of financial position, an entity shall, for each period that a statement of financial position is presented, disclose the line items and amounts of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents disaggregated by the line item in which they appear within the statement of financial position, with a sum to the total amount of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in fiscal 2018, including interim periods within that year and should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period. We have elected to early adopt the amendments in this update in the three months ended March 31, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-19, Technical Corrections and Improvements . The new standard is intended to provide clarity to the Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, or correct unintended application of the guidance that is not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities. ASU No. 2016-19 is effective for annual and interim fiscal reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 with respect to the amendments that require transition guidance, and early adoption is permitted. All other amendments were effective on issuance. The Company is currently evaluating the expected impact of the amendments that require transition guidance, but does not expect these to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements upon adoption. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business . The amendments in this update clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses and provides a screen to determine when a set is not a business. The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business. This screen reduces the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated. If the screen is not met, the amendments in this update (1) require that to be considered a business, a set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output and (2) remove the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace missing elements. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first 35 Table of Contents quarter of 2018 and are required to be applied prospectively on or after the effective date. No disclosures are required at transition. Early application is allowed for transactions for which the acquisition date occurs before the issuance date or effective date of the amendments, only when the transaction has not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance. We plan to adopt the amendments in this update starting with 2017 acquisitions. Such adoption is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our unaudited consolidated statements of income. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency and mixed-signal integrated circuits for cable and satellite broadband communications and the connected home, and wired and wireless infrastructure markets. A significant portion of our end customers purchases products indirectly from us through distributors. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, distributor and other third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of an adjustment related to lease and leasehold impairment charges related to a restructuring plan entered into as a result of our acquisition of Entropic. Interest Income. Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Provision for Income Taxes. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. 36 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our unaudited consolidated statement of income data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 40 40 Gross profit 60 60 Operating expenses: Research and development 27 23 Selling, general and administrative 21 13 Restructuring charges 2 Total operating expenses 48 38 Income from operations 12 22 Interest income Other expense, net Income before income taxes 12 22 Provision for income taxes 2 2 Net income 10 % 20 % Net Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Operator $ 72,994 $ 92,797 $ (19,803 ) (21 )% % of net revenue 82 % 90 % Infrastructure and other 15,847 9,888 5,959 60 % % of net revenue 18 % 10 % Total net revenue $ 88,841 $ 102,685 $ (13,844 ) (13 %) Net revenue decreased $13.8 million from $102.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $88.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease in operator net revenue of $19.8 million was primarily driven by the inclusion of the now negligible legacy video SoC revenue, which declined significantly year-over-year, declines in satellite analog channel-stacking, or aCSS, and cable video RF transceiver shipments, partially offset by increased cable modem and gateway, satellite gateway, and terrestrial set-top box tuner demodulator shipments. In addition, infrastructure and other revenue increased $6.0 million . The increase was primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from our recently acquired wireless infrastructure businesses, which we acquired in April 2016 and July 2016, partially offset by declines in consumer terrestrial set-top box shipments and TV tuner product shipments. We expect year-over-year revenue declines in the legacy video SoC and aCSS products to continue, as these products are near the end of their life cycles, which along with other factors, including but not limited to operator consolidation, could adversely affect future revenues for these product categories. 37 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 35,917 $ 41,515 $ (5,598 ) (13 )% % of net revenue 40 % 40 % Gross profit 52,924 61,170 (8,246 ) (13 )% % of net revenue 60 % 60 % Cost of net revenue decreased $5.6 million from $41.5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $35.9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease was primarily driven by lower sales and lower manufacturing overhead, partially offset by increased intellectual property amortization of $1.1 million primarily related to the acquisition of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business. The gross profit percentage remained flat in the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Research and Development Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 23,878 $ 23,752 $ 126 1 % % of net revenue 27 % 23 % Research and development expense in the three months ended March 31, 2017 increased $0.1 million to $23.9 million from $23.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increases in payroll-related expense and occupancy expense of $1.5 million related to our acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure businesses in April 2016 and July 2016. This increase was partially offset by lower mask prototype expenses of $1.4 million. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 18,613 $ 13,610 $ 5,003 37 % % of net revenue 21 % 13 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased $5.0 million from $13.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , to $18.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in professional fees of $3.7 million related to our merger and acquisition activities during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , and an increase in intangible amortization expense of $1.6 million related to developed technology and customer-related intangibles from the wireless infrastructure acquisitions in April 2016 and July 2016. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets and continue to build our international administrative infrastructure. 38 Table of Contents Restructuring charges Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ $ 2,106 $ (2,106 ) 100 % % of net revenue % 2 % Restructuring charges decreased from $2.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $0 in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The charges in the three months ended March 31, 2016 consisted of an adjustment to restructuring charges related to our exiting of facilities under lease arrangements assumed in connection with the Entropic acquisition. In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , there were no similar charges. Interest and Other Expense, Net Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 195 $ 170 $ 25 15 % Other expense, net (144 ) (198 ) (54 ) (27 )% Interest income increased $0.03 million from $0.17 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 to $0.20 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Interest income is primarily derived from our cash, cash equivalent and investment balances. The changes in other expense, net was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 2,021 $ 993 $ 1,028 104 % % of net revenue 2 % 1 % The provision for income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2017 was $2.0 million or approximately 19% of pre-tax income compared to $1.0 million or approximately 5% of pre-tax income in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily relates to federal tax due to our limitation on use of net operating losses, credit carryforwards, state income taxes, and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Certain significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter during which they occur and can be a source of variability in the effective tax rates from quarter to quarter. For example, effective in the second quarter of 2017, we began to operate under certain favorable tax incentives in Singapore which are effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain employment and investment thresholds over time. The change is also expected to result in additional taxable income in the U.S. related to an intellectual property buy-in payment from a foreign affiliate in connection with the change in tax structure. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily relates to federal tax due to our limitation on use of net operating losses, state income taxes, and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. During the quarter ended June 30, 2016, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share Based Compensation , which resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits within the provision for income taxes in the unaudited consolidated statement of operations. ASU No. 2016-09 permitted early adoption in an interim period but required the adjustments to be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes that interim period and accordingly, we restated the previously reported income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2016. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, the impact of including net excess tax benefits was to reduce the provision for income taxes by $1.6 million. 39 Table of Contents Since the amount of such excess tax benefits and deficiencies depend on the fair market value of our common stock, our income tax provision is now subject to volatility in our stock price and in the future, could unfavorably affect our future effective tax rate. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset the federal, California and certain foreign deferred tax assets as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. As of March 31, 2017, we are in a three-year U.S. cumulative pre-tax book loss position. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we concluded that a full valuation allowance should continue to be recorded against our U.S. and certain foreign net deferred tax assets at March 31, 2017. We are closely assessing the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. If we continue to generate taxable income, we could remove some or all of the valuation allowance against federal, California and certain foreign deferred tax assets if we meet the more-likely-than-not threshold. The impact of releasing some or all of such valuation allowance will be material in the period in which such release occurs. Until such time that we remove the valuation allowance against our federal, California and certain foreign deferred tax assets, our provision for income taxes will primarily consist of federal and state current income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, we do not incur expense or benefit in certain tax free jurisdictions in which we operate. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $89.1 million , restricted cash of $2.1 million , short-term investments of $63.6 million , and net accounts receivable of $57.8 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory and the acquisition of businesses, property and equipment and intangible assets, and is impacted by the timing of when we pay these expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation and amortization and depreciation of property and equipment and acquired intangible assets, and step-ups of acquired inventory to fair value. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the growth in amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers. Following is a summary of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments for the periods indicated: March 31, December 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Working capital $ 183,874 $ 158,304 Cash and cash equivalents $ 89,121 $ 81,086 Short-term restricted cash 615 614 Long-term restricted cash 1,502 1,196 Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 91,238 82,896 Short-term investments 63,637 47,918 Long-term investments 5,991 Total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments $ 154,875 $ 136,805 40 Table of Contents Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 22,672 $ 38,954 Net cash used in investing activities (10,655 ) (30,695 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (4,876 ) 632 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,201 (7 ) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 8,342 $ 8,884 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $22.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of net income of $8.5 million , $11.4 million in non-cash operating expenses, and $2.8 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items included in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and acquired intangible assets of $6.9 million , stock-based compensation of $5.5 million , partially offset by excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $0.9 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $39.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities for this period primarily consisted of net positive cash flow from adding back $9.9 million in non-cash operating expenses to net income of $20.7 million , and changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.4 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment and acquired intangible assets of $5.8 million and stock-based compensation of $5.1 million , partially offset by excess tax benefits on stock based awards of $1.6 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $10.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of $30.6 million in purchases of securities and $ 0.7 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $20.8 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $30.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $37.8 million in purchases of securities and $3.2 million in purchases of property and equipment. partially offset by $10.3 million in maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $4.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , and consisted primarily of $4.9 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , and consisted primarily of $1.7 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by $1.1 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. We believe that our $89.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and $63.6 million in short-term investments at March 31, 2017 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months; however, we expect to incur substantial term loan indebtedness related to our upcoming acquisition of Exar. On April 4, 2017, we used $21.0 million of cash to purchase the G.hn business of Marvell. We intend to fund our upcoming acquisition in the second quarter of 2017 of Exar of approximately $700.0 million via approximately $425.0 million of new transaction term debt, plus cash to be acquired from Exar of approximately $228.0 million, plus cash on hand of approximately $47.0 million. In connection with the Exar merger agreement, we have entered into a debt commitment letter effective March 28, 2017 with certain initial lenders who have committed to provide a secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $425.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain customary closing conditions. The facilities are available (i) to finance the merger, refinance certain 41 Table of Contents existing indebtedness of Exar and its subsidiaries, and fund all related transactions, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith and (iii) for working capital and general corporate purposes. The commitment letter provides that the term loan facility will have a seven-year term and that term loans will bear interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, and, in each case, plus a fixed applicable margin. The definitive documentation governing the debt financing has not been finalized, and, accordingly, the actual terms may differ from the description of such terms in the commitment letter. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2017, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the July 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 performance period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions, including our acquisition of Exar. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2017 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2017 , future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases and inventory purchase obligations are as follows: Payments due Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 38,322 $ 6,930 $ 13,899 $ 17,493 Inventory purchase obligations 10,859 10,859 Total $ 49,181 $ 17,789 $ 13,899 $ 17,493 There have been no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2017 to our contractual obligations disclosed in our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. 42 Table of Contents