ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio frequency, or RF, and mixed-signal integrated circuits for cable and satellite broadband communications and the connected home, and for data center, metro, and long-haul fiber networks. Our high performance RF receiver products capture and process digital and analog broadband signals to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip (SoCs), which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to receive and demodulate broadband signals, and physical medium devices that provide a constant current source, current-to-voltage regulation, and data alignment and retiming functionality in optical interconnect applications. Through our acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc., or Entropic, in April of 2015, we provide semiconductor solutions for the connected home, ranging from MoCA (Multimedia over Coax Alliance) solutions that transform how traditional HDTV broadcast and Internet Protocol- (IP) based streaming video content is seamlessly, reliably, and securely delivered, processed, and distributed into and throughout the home. Our products enable the reception, distribution and display of broadband video and data content in a wide range of consumer, operator, and infrastructure platforms, including Pay-TV operator set-top boxes and voice and data gateways, hybrid analog and digital televisions and consumer terrestrial set-top boxes, Direct Broadcast Satellite outdoor units, optical modules for data center, metro, and long-haul transport network applications, and RF transceivers for wireless infrastructure markets. 25 Table of Contents Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $300.4 million in fiscal 2015 . In fiscal 2015 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and MoCA connectivity solutions into operator voice and data modems and gateways and global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital television applications. These analog and digital television applications include Direct Broadcast Satellite outdoor unit (DBS ODU) solutions, which consist of our translation switch (BTS) and channel stacking switch (CSS) products. These products simplify the installation required to support simultaneous reception of multiple channels from multiple satellites over a single cable. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend, among other factors, on our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and Pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the Cable infrastructure market, and manufacturers of optical module and telecommunications infrastructure equipment. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 94% and 91% of net revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. A significant but declining portion of these sales in Asia is through distributors. Although a large percentage of our products are shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products in the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , one of our customers, Arris Group, Inc., or Arris, accounted for 24% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 79% of our net revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , one of our customers, Arris, accounted for 29% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 74% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems and cable and satellite cable set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the satellite operator gateway and DBS ODU sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 months to 60 months and beyond. On April 30, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Entropic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement or merger agreements dated as of February 3, 2015, by and among MaxLinear, Entropic, and two wholly-owned subsidiaries of MaxLinear, all of the Entropic outstanding shares were converted into the right to receive consideration consisting of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. We paid an aggregate of $111.1 million in cash and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock to the stockholders of Entropic. In addition, we assumed all outstanding Entropic stock options and unvested restricted stock units that were held by continuing service providers (as defined in the merger agreement). We used Entropics cash and cash equivalents to fund a significant portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration and, to a lesser extent, our own cash and cash equivalents. Recent Developments On April 28, 2016 , we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc., formerly known as PMC-Sierra, Inc., or Microsemi, and consummated the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement. We paid cash consideration of $21.0 million for the purchase of certain wireless access assets of Microsemi's Broadband Wireless Division , and assumed certain specified liabilities. The assets acquired include, among other things, radio frequency and analog/ 26 Table of Contents mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation RF transceiver designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property, plant, and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees of the Broadband Wireless Division that were rehired by the Company. On May 9, 2016 , we entered into a material definitive agreement to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business of Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom, for aggregate cash consideration of $80.0 million . The acquisition is expected to be consummated on or about July 1, 2016 , subject to the receipt of regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions. We intend to rehire certain employees of Broadcom's wireless infrastructure backhaul business after close of the acquisition. The acquired assets and liabilities, together with the rehired employees for each of these acquisitions, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations. We intend to integrate the acquired assets and rehired employees into our existing business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that accounting policies we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 17, 2016, as amended by Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A filed with the SEC on April 28, 2016 , or our Annual Report. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires inventory to be subsequently measured using the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. The amendments in this Update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and should be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact that this guidance will have on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The amendments in this Update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not 27 Table of Contents to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The amendments in this Update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the amendments in this Update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations; however, adoption of the amendments in this Update are expected to be material for most entities who have a material lease greater than twelve months. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net ) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this Update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this Update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with the new revenue recognition standard. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting the new revenue recognition accounting standard, including this Update, on its consolidated financial position and results of operations. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation to simplify certain aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions associated with income taxes, classification as equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this Update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2017, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. Early adoption, if elected, must be completed for all of the amendments in the same period. Amendments related to the timing of when excess tax benefits are recognized, minimum statutory withholding requirements, forfeitures, and intrinsic value should be applied using a modified retrospective transition method by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Amendments related to the presentation of employee taxes paid on the statement of cash flows when an employer withholds shares to meet the minimum statutory withholding requirement should be applied retrospectively. Amendments requiring recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in the income statement and the practical expedient for estimating expected term should be applied prospectively. An entity may elect to apply the amendments related to the presentation of excess tax benefits on the consolidated statement of cash flows using either a prospective transition method or a retrospective transition method. We are currently in the process of evaluating the full impact of adoption of the amendments in this Update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations, but we believe that the amendments that require that all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement will reduce income tax expense on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our consolidated statements of operations. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of integrated radio frequency analog and mixed signal semiconductor solutions for broadband communication applications. A significant but declining portion of our end customers purchases products indirectly from us through distributors. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers. Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, distributor and other third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. 28 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of employee severance and stock-based compensation expenses, and lease and leasehold impairment charges related to our restructuring plan entered into as a result of our acquisition of Entropic, and an adjustment related to restructuring plan implemented by Entropic prior to our acquisition. Interest Income. Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investment balances. Other Income (Expense). Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Provision for Income Taxes. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Net revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 40 39 Gross profit 60 61 Operating expenses: Research and development 23 43 Selling, general and administrative 13 31 Restructuring charges 2 Total operating expenses 38 74 Income (loss) from operations 22 (13 ) Interest income Other income (expense), net Income (loss) before income taxes 22 (13 ) Provision for income taxes 3 1 Net income (loss) 19 % (14 )% Net Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Operator $ 76,140 $ 28,868 $ 47,272 164 % % of net revenue 74 % 82 % Infrastructure and other 9,888 6,528 3,360 51 % % of net revenue 10 % 18 % Legacy video SoC 16,657 16,657 N/A % of net revenue 16 % Total net revenue $ 102,685 $ 35,396 $ 67,289 190 % Net revenue increased $67.3 million from $35.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 to $102.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in net revenue was due to $47.3 million of increased revenue from operator applications, related primarily to analog channel-stacking, or aCSS, and MoCA products from the Entropic acquisition and $16.7 million of increased revenue from our legacy video SoC products also attributable to our acquisition of Entropic. In addition, we had a $3.4 million increase related to infrastructure and other revenues due to an increase in high-speed interconnect product shipments and, to a lesser extent, increases in retail MoCA and high-speed access products from the Entropic acquisition and growth in consumer digital-to-analog terrestrial set-top box applications. Operator-based terrestrial set- 29 Table of Contents top box deployments declined by approximately $1.4 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2015. We do not currently expect to maintain the year-over-year revenue growth rates that we have recently experienced as we begin to compare future results against periods occurring after our acquisition of Entropic. In addition, we believe the legacy video SoC and aCSS products we acquired are near the end of their life cycles, which along with other factors such as operator consolidation could adversely affect future revenues for these product categories. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 41,515 $ 13,725 $ 27,790 202 % % of net revenue 40 % 39 % Gross profit 61,170 21,671 39,499 182 % % of net revenue 60 % 61 % The decrease in gross profit percentages in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , was primarily due to amortization of intellectual property costs of $1.6 million related to the Entropic acquisition. The gross margin decline was also driven by the significant increase in Entropic-related product revenue, which has historically generated lower gross margins than our previous corporate average. We currently expect that gross profit percentage will fluctuate in the future, from period-to-period, based on changes in product mix, average selling prices, and average manufacturing costs. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 23,752 $ 15,281 $ 8,471 55 % % of net revenue 23 % 43 % The increase in research and development expense in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , was primarily due to increases in headcount-related expense (including stock-based compensation) of $4.2 million and increases in engineering-related expense of $2.3 million. In addition, we had increases related to occupancy expense, depreciation expense, and outside services of $2.0 million, all of which were substantially affected by our acquisition of Entropic. We expect our research and development expenses to increase as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 13,610 $ 10,944 $ 2,666 24 % % of net revenue 13 % 31 % The increase in selling, general and administrative expense in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , was primarily due to increases in headcount-related expense of $1.9 million, depreciation expense of $1.5 million, and increases in occupancy, travel, commission, and outside services expenses of $1.5 million, all of which were substantially affected by our acquisition of Entropic. These increases were partially offset by decreases in legal expense of $2.2 million, as the prior period included transaction costs associated with our Entropic acquisition. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets and continue to build our international administrative infrastructure. 30 Table of Contents Restructuring charges Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 2,106 $ $ 2,106 100 % % of net revenue 2 % % Restructuring charges for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily consisted of restructuring expenses related to lease arrangements assumed in connection with the Entropic acquisition. Interest and Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 170 $ 70 $ 100 143 % Other expense, net (198 ) (34 ) (164 ) 482 % The increase in interest income in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2015 , was due to higher cash and cash equivalent and investment balances. The increase in other expense, net was primarily due to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions at the Entropic Asia subsidiaries. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 2,558 $ 204 $ 2,354 1,154 % % of net revenue 2 % 1 % The provision for income taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was $2.6 million or approximately 2% of pre-tax income compared to a provision for income taxes of $0.2 million or approximately 1% of pre-tax loss in the three months ended March 31, 2015 . The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily relates to federal alternative minimum tax due to our limitation on use of net operating losses, state income taxes, and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Certain significant or unusual items are separately recognized in the quarter during which they occur and can be a source of variability in the effective tax rates from quarter to quarter. For example, the impact of the federal alternative minimum tax will be reduced when we adopt ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation , since net excess tax benefits will then be recognized in income tax expense or benefit in the statement of operations. The provision for income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily relates to income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset the federal and California deferred tax assets as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, including our three year U.S. cumulative pre-tax book loss and taxable loss, we concluded that a full valuation allowance should continue to be recorded against our U.S. net deferred tax assets at March 31, 2016 . We will continue to assess the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. Until such time that we remove the valuation allowance against our federal and California deferred tax assets, our provision for income taxes will primarily consist of federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, we do not incur expense or benefit in certain tax free jurisdictions in which we operate. 31 Table of Contents Income tax expense in the foreign jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax is expected to remain relatively constant due to the cost plus nature of these entities and the relatively consistent operating expenses in each jurisdiction. Fluctuations in world-wide income occur mostly outside of these jurisdictions and therefore have an insignificant effect on our provision for income taxes. We expect this relationship to continue until the time that we either recognize all or a portion of our federal and California deferred tax assets or implement changes to our global operations. Subsequent Events Acquisition of Certain Assets and Assumption of Certain Liabilities of the Broadband Wireless Division of Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc. (formerly known as PMC-Sierra, Inc.) For information on this subsequent event, please refer to Notes 1 and 12 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. Agreement to Acquire Certain Assets and Assume Certain Liabilities of the Wireless Infrastructure Backhaul Business of Broadcom Corporation For information on this subsequent event, please refer to Note 12 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $76.8 million , short- and long-term investments of $90.0 million , and net accounts receivable of $41.0 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory and the acquisition of businesses, property and equipment and intangible assets. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as amortization and depreciation of acquired intangible assets and property and equipment, stock-based compensation, and impairment of lease and is impacted by the timing of when we pay these expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the growth in amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers. Following is a summary of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents for the periods indicated: March 31, December 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Working capital $ 163,422 $ 134,170 Cash and cash equivalents $ 76,840 $ 67,956 Short-term investments 73,210 43,300 Long-term investments 16,782 19,242 Total cash and cash equivalents and investments $ 166,832 $ 130,498 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 38,954 $ 3,768 Net cash used in investing activities (30,695 ) (987 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 632 (714 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (7 ) 6 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 8,884 $ 2,073 32 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $39.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of net income of $19.1 million , $11.5 million in non-cash operating expenses, and $8.3 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash items included in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization expense of $5.8 million and stock-based compensation of $5.1 million . Net cash provided by operating activities was $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consisted of $5.3 million in non-cash operating expenses and $3.2 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a net loss of $4.7 million . Non-cash items included in net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of $1.6 million and stock-based compensation of $3.7 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $30.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $37.8 million in purchases of securities, $ 3.2 million in purchases of property and equipment, offset by $10.3 million in maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Net cash used in investing activities consisted of $16.2 million in purchases of securities and $1.0 million in purchases of property and equipment, offset by $16.2 million in maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 consisted primarily of $1.7 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, offset by $1.1 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2015 consisted primarily of $0.7 million in equity issuance costs, $0.3 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees for restricted stock units, offset by $0.2 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. We believe that our $76.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and $90.0 million in short- and long-term investments at March 31, 2016 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our Entropic acquisition and our implementation of an equity-based bonus program. In connection with that bonus program, in August 2015, we issued 0.3 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the January 1, 2015 to June 30, 2015 performance period under our bonus plan. In May 2015, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the fiscal 2014 performance period under our bonus plan. We expect to issue additional shares of Class A common stock in May 2016 for the second half 2015 fiscal performance period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. 33 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2016 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations As of March 31, 2016 , future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases, other obligations, and inventory purchase obligations are as follows: Operating Leases Other Obligations Inventory Purchase Obligations Total (in thousands) 2016 (nine months) $ 5,991 $ 5,708 $ 19,297 $ 30,996 2017 6,809 4,948 11,757 2018 6,001 830 6,831 2019 5,678 5,678 2020 6,024 6,024 Thereafter 7,590 7,590 Total minimum payments $ 38,093 $ 11,486 $ 19,297 $ 68,876 34 Table of Contents