ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report. Overview We are a provider of radio frequency, or RF, mixed-signal and high-performance analog integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. Our high-performance RF receiver products capture and process digital and analog broadband signals to be decoded for various applications. These products include both RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip, or SoCs, which incorporate our highly integrated radio system architecture and the functionality necessary to receive and demodulate broadband signals, modem solutions and physical medium devices that provide a constant current source, current-to-voltage regulation, and data alignment and retiming functionality in optical interconnect applications. Through our acquisition of Entropic Communications, Inc., or Entropic, in April 2015, and the acquisition of Marvell's G.hn business in April 2017, we provide semiconductor solutions for the connected home and home broadband access markets, including MoCA (Multimedia over Coax Alliance) and G.hn solutions that transform how traditional HDTV broadcast and Internet Protocol, or IP, based streaming video content is seamlessly, reliably, and securely distributed into and throughout the home. Through our acquisition of the Microsemi wireless infrastructure access business in April 2016, we provide integrated circuits for wireless infrastructure markets, including wideband RF transceivers and synthesizers for 3G, 4G, and future 5G cellular base station and remote radio head (RRH) unit platforms. Through our acquisition of the Broadcom wireless infrastructure backhaul business in July 2016, we provide modem solutions into cellular infrastructure backhaul applications. Through our acquisition of Exar Corporation in May 2017, we have added to our product portfolio high-performance analog and mixed-signal products for enterprise, infrastructure, communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our net revenue has grown from approximately $0.6 million in fiscal 2006 to $387.8 million in fiscal 2016 . In the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , revenues were $306.6 million . In fiscal 2016 and in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , our net revenue was derived primarily from sales of RF receivers and RF receiver systems-on-chip and connectivity solutions into broadband operator voice and data modems and gateways and connectivity adapters, global analog and digital RF receiver products for analog and digital pay-TV applications, radio and modem solutions into wireless carrier access and backhaul infrastructure platforms, high-speed optical interconnect solutions sold into optical modules for data-center, metro and long-haul networks, and high-performance interface and power management solutions into a broad range of communications, industrial, automotive and multi-market applications. Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend on, among other factors, our ability to further penetrate existing markets; our ability to expand our target addressable markets by developing new and innovative products; and our ability to obtain design wins with device manufacturers, in particular manufacturers of set-top boxes, data modems, and gateways for the broadband service provider and pay-TV industries, manufacturers selling into the smartphone market, storage networking market, cable infrastructure market, industrial and automotive markets, and optical module and telecommunications infrastructure markets. Products shipped to Asia accounted for 90% and 92% of our net revenue in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Although a large percentage of our products are shipped to Asia, we believe that a significant number of the systems designed by these customers and incorporating our semiconductor products are then sold outside Asia. For example, we believe revenue generated from sales of our digital terrestrial set-top box products in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 related principally to sales to Asian set-top box manufacturers delivering products into Europe, Middle East, and Africa, or EMEA markets. Similarly, revenue generated from sales of our cable modem products in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 related principally to sales to Asian ODMs and contract manufacturers delivering products into European and North American markets. To date, most of our sales have been denominated in United States dollars. 37 Table of Contents A significant portion of our net revenue has historically been generated by a limited number of customers. In the three months ended September 30, 2017 , one of our customers, Arris Group, Inc., or Arris, accounted for 26% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 58% of our net revenue. In the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , one of our customers, Arris Group, Inc., or Arris, accounted for 27% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 60% of our net revenue. In the three months ended September 30, 2016 , Arris accounted for 28% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 73% of our net revenue. In the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , Arris accounted for 27% of our net revenue, and our ten largest customers collectively accounted for 77% of our net revenue. For certain customers, we sell multiple products into disparate end user applications such as cable modems, satellite set-top boxes and broadband gateways. Our business depends on winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins, to develop semiconductors for use in our customers products. These selection processes are typically lengthy, and as a result, our sales cycles will vary based on the specific market served, whether the design win is with an existing or a new customer and whether our product being designed in our customers device is a first generation or subsequent generation product. Our customers products can be complex and, if our engagement results in a design win, can require significant time to define, design and result in volume production. Because the sales cycle for our products is long, we can incur significant design and development expenditures in circumstances where we do not ultimately recognize any revenue. We do not have any long-term purchase commitments with any of our customers, all of whom purchase our products on a purchase order basis. Once one of our products is incorporated into a customers design, however, we believe that our product is likely to remain a component of the customers product for its life cycle because of the time and expense associated with redesigning the product or substituting an alternative chip. Product life cycles in our target markets will vary by application. For example, in the hybrid television market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 9 to 18 months. In the terrestrial retail digital set-top box market, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 18 to 24 months. In the cable operator modem and gateway sectors, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 48 months. In the industrial and wired and wireless infrastructure markets, a design-in can have a product life cycle of 24 to 60 months and beyond. On April 30, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Entropic. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement or merger agreements dated as of February 3, 2015, by and among MaxLinear, Entropic, and two wholly-owned subsidiaries of MaxLinear, all of the Entropic outstanding shares were converted into the right to receive consideration consisting of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. We paid an aggregate of $111.1 million in cash and issued an aggregate of 20.4 million shares of our Class A common stock to the stockholders of Entropic. In addition, we assumed all outstanding Entropic stock options and unvested restricted stock units that were held by continuing service providers (as defined in the merger agreement). We used Entropics cash and cash equivalents to fund a significant portion of the cash portion of the merger consideration and, to a lesser extent, our own cash and cash equivalents. On April 28, 2016 , we entered into an asset purchase agreement with Microsemi Storage Solutions, Inc., formerly known as PMC-Sierra, Inc., or Microsemi, and consummated the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement. We paid cash consideration of $21.0 million for the purchase of certain wireless access assets of Microsemi's wireless infrastructure access business , and assumed certain specified liabilities. The assets acquired include, among other things, radio frequency and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation RF transceiver designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property, plant, and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees of the wireless infrastructure access business that were rehired by the Company. On May 9, 2016 , we entered into a definitive agreement to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business of Broadcom Corporation, or Broadcom. On July 1, 2016 , we consummated the transactions contemplated by the purchase agreement and paid aggregate cash consideration of $80.0 million and hired certain employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business . The assets acquired include, among other things, digital baseband, radio frequency, or RF, and analog/mixed signal patents and other intellectual property, in-production and next-generation digital baseband and RF transceiver integrated circuit and reference platform designs, a workforce-in-place, and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory, and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations, liabilities for technologies acquired, and a payable to Broadcom as reimbursement of costs associated with the termination of those employees of the wireless infrastructure backhaul business who were not hired by MaxLinear upon the closing of the acquisition. 38 Table of Contents The acquired assets and liabilities, together with the rehired employees for each of these acquisitions, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations. We integrated the acquired assets and rehired employees into our existing business. On March 29, 2017, each share of our then outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock and shares underlying our then outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and restricted stock awards automatically converted into a single class of our common stock or rights to receive shares of a single class of our common stock pursuant to the terms of our Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The conversion had no impact on the total number of issued and outstanding shares of our capital stock; the Class A shares and Class B shares converted into an equivalent number of shares of our common stock. In addition, the conversion did not increase the total number of authorized shares of our common stock, which prior to the conversion was, and remains, 550,000,000 shares. However, our total number of authorized shares of capital stock was reduced from 1,575,000,000 to 1,509,554,147, to account for the retirement of the Class A shares and Class B shares that were outstanding at the time of the conversion. Following the conversion, our authorized capital stock includes 441,123,947 Class A shares and 493,430,200 Class B shares, which represents Class A shares and Class B shares that were authorized but unissued at the time of the conversion. No additional Class A shares or Class B shares will be issued following the conversion. Following the conversion, each share of our common stock is entitled to one vote per share and otherwise has the same designations, rights, powers and preferences as the Class A common stock prior to the conversion. In addition, holders of our common stock vote as a single class of stock on any matter that is submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Prior to the conversion, the holders of our Class A and Class B common stock had identical voting rights, except that holders of Class A common stock were entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B common stock were entitled to ten votes per share with respect to transactions that would result in a change of control of our company or that relate to our equity incentive plans. In addition, holders of Class B common stock had the exclusive right to elect two members of our Board of Directors, each referred to as a Class B Director. The shares of our Class B common stock were not publicly traded. Each share of our Class B common stock was convertible at any time at the option of the holder into one share of Class A common stock and in most instances automatically converted upon sale or other transfer. Recent Developments On April 4, 2017, we consummated the transactions contemplated by a share and asset acquisition agreement with Marvell Semiconductor Inc., or Marvell, to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities of Marvells G.hn business, including its Spain legal entity, for aggregate cash consideration of $21.0 million. We also hired certain employees of the G.hn business outside of Spain and assumed employment obligations of the Spanish entity we acquired, which is now a subsidiary of MaxLinear. The assets acquired include, among other things, patents and other intellectual property, a workforce-in-place and other intangible assets, as well as tangible assets that include but are not limited to production masks and other production related assets, inventory and other property and equipment. The liabilities assumed include, among other things, product warranty obligations and accrued vacation and severance obligations for employees who joined MaxLinear and its subsidiaries as a result of the transaction. The acquired assets and assumed liabilities, together with the employees, represent a business as defined in ASC 805, Business Combinations . We are integrating the acquired assets and employees into our existing business. In the quarter ended June 30, 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event the Company does not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the periods ending December 31, 2017 or December 31, 2018. On May 12, 2017 , pursuant to the March 28, 2017 Agreement and Plan of Merger, Eagle Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of MaxLinear merged with and into Exar Corporation, or Exar, with Exar surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of MaxLinear. Under this Agreement and Plan of Merger, we agreed to acquire Exar's outstanding common stock for $13.00 per share in cash. We also assumed certain of Exar's stock-based awards in the merger. We paid aggregate cash consideration of $688.1 million , including $12.7 million of cash paid to settle certain stock-based awards that were not assumed by us in the merger. We funded the transaction with cash from the balance sheet of the combined companies and the net proceeds of approximately $416.8 million under a secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $425.0 million . The facility is available (i) to finance the Merger, refinance certain existing indebtedness of Exar and its subsidiaries, and fund all 39 Table of Contents related transactions, (ii) to pay fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith and (iii) for working capital and general corporate purposes. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and the term loans bear interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, plus a fixed applicable margin. Exar is a designer and developer of high-performance analog mixed-signal integrated circuits and sub-system solutions. The merger significantly furthers our strategic goals of increasing revenue scale, diversifying revenues by end customers and addressable markets, and expanding our analog and mixed-signal footprint on existing tier-one customer platforms. Exar adds a diverse portfolio of high-performance analog and mixed-signal products constituting power management and interface technologies that are ubiquitous functions in wireless and wireline communications infrastructure, broadband access, industrial, enterprise networking, and automotive platforms. We intend to leverage combined technological expertise, cross-selling opportunities and distribution channels to significantly expand our serviceable addressable market. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments, the most critical of which are those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventory valuation, goodwill and other intangible assets valuation, income taxes and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. We believe that accounting policies we have identified as critical involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity than our other accounting policies. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. For a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates, refer to Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 , which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 9, 2017, or our Annual Report. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In July 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11, Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory, which requires inventory to be subsequently measured using the lower of cost and net realizable value. Net realizable value is the estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal and transportation. ASU 2015-11 is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 and has been applied prospectively. The adoption of ASU No. 2015-11 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2017 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share-Based Compensation to simplify certain aspects of accounting for share-based payment transactions associated with income taxes, classification as equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2017, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. Early adoption, if elected, must be completed for all of the amendments in the same period. The new guidance requires, among other things, excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded on a prospective basis in the income statement in the provision for income taxes when awards vest or are settled. On the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits must be classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity on either a prospective transition method or a retrospective transition method. Also, because excess tax benefits are no longer recognized in additional paid-in capital, the assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing earnings per share is amended to exclude the amount of excess tax benefits that would be recognized in additional paid-in capital. We adopted ASU No. 2016-09 during the quarter ended June 30, 2016, as previously described in our Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2016 filed with the Securities Exchange Commission on August 8, 2016. There was no cumulative effect on retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet upon adoption since we had a full valuation allowance against U.S. deferred tax assets at the time of adoption. We elected to continue to estimate forfeitures of share-based awards resulting in no impact to stock-based compensation expense, and are also continuing to classify cash paid 40 Table of Contents by us when directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes in cash flows from financing activities. On the statement of cash flows, excess tax benefits were classified along with other income tax cash flows as an operating activity upon adoption on a prospective basis. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740) to improve the accounting for the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory. Current GAAP prohibits the recognition of current and deferred income taxes for an intra-entity asset transfer until the asset has been sold to an outside party. The FASB decided that an entity should recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The amendments in this update should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, including interim reporting periods. Early adoption is permitted as of the first quarter of fiscal 2017, or the beginning of the annual reporting period only. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update beginning in the three months ended March 31, 2017. Due to a full valuation allowance on U.S. and certain foreign deferred tax assets at the time of adoption, the adoption of the amendments in this update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 . In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash . The amendments in this update require that a statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents. Therefore, amounts generally described as restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents should be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the statement of cash flows. When cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents are presented in more than one line item within the statement of financial position, an entity shall, for each period that a statement of financial position is presented, disclose the line items and amounts of cash, cash equivalents, and amounts generally described as restricted cash or restricted cash equivalents disaggregated by the line item in which they appear within the statement of financial position, with a sum to the total amount of cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in fiscal 2018, including interim periods within that year and should be applied using a retrospective transition method to each period presented. Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period. If an entity early adopts in an interim period, any adjustments should be reflected as of the beginning of the fiscal year that includes the interim period. We elected to early adopt the amendments in this update beginning in the three months ended March 31, 2017. The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated cash flows for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 . In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business . The amendments in this update clarify the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance to assist entities with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses and provides a screen to determine when a set is not a business. The screen requires that when substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired (or disposed of) is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets, the set is not a business. This screen reduces the number of transactions that need to be further evaluated. If the screen is not met, the amendments in this update (1) require that to be considered a business, a set must include, at a minimum, an input and a substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create output and (2) remove the evaluation of whether a market participant could replace missing elements. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2018 and are required to be applied prospectively on or after the effective date. No disclosures are required at transition. Early application is allowed for transactions for which the acquisition date occurs before the issuance date or effective date of the amendments, only when the transaction has not been reported in financial statements that have been issued or made available for issuance. We have elected to early adopt the amendments in this update for 2017 acquisitions. Such adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Accounting Standards Update, or ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which provides for new accounting guidance related to revenue recognition. This new standard will replace all current U.S. GAAP guidance on this topic and eliminate all industry-specific guidance. The new revenue recognition standard provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 and can be applied either retrospectively to each period presented or as a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We plan to apply the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect on adoption. Adoption of the amendments in this guidance is expected to accelerate the timing of our revenue recognition on products sold via distributors which will change from the sell-through method to the sell-in method. We have performed a preliminary assessment of the impact of adopting this new accounting standard on our consolidated financial position and results of operations following the acquisition of Exar Corporation (Note 3), which has a significant amount of sales through distributors. The impact of adoption of this new accounting standard will vary depending on the level of inventory remaining at the adoption date at distributors for which we currently recognize revenue on a sell-through basis, and therefore could have a material impact on our revenues for the year ending December 31, 2018 and comparative periods expected to be presented. As a result of applying the guidance prospectively with an adjustment to retained earnings for the cumulative effect of adoption, revenues that would have been recognized on a sell-through basis for the remaining amount of deferred revenue and profit as of the adoption date will not be recognized in earnings for any period. In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities . The amendments in this update include a requirement to measure equity investments (except equity method investments) at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income; previously changes in fair value were recognized in other comprehensive income. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842). The amendments in this update require a lessee to recognize in the statement of financial position a liability to make lease payments (the lease liability) and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term for all leases with terms greater than twelve months. For leases less than twelve months, an entity is permitted to make an accounting policy election by class of underlying asset not to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities. If a lessee makes this election, it should recognize lease expense for such leases generally on a straight-line basis over the lease term. The amendments in this update are effective for us for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2019, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. We are currently in the process of evaluating the impact of adoption of the amendments in this update on our consolidated financial position and results of operations; however, adoption of the amendments in this update is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net ) to clarify the revenue recognition implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The amendments in this update clarify that when another party is involved in providing goods or services to a customer, an entity that is the principal has obtained control of a good or service before it is transferred to a customer, and provides indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. An entity that is the principal recognizes revenue in the gross amount of consideration to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for the specified good or service transferred to the customer, whereas an agent recognizes revenue in the amount of any fee or commission to which it expects to be entitled in exchange for arranging for the specified good or service to be provided by the other party. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, concurrent with the new revenue recognition standard. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments to eliminate the diversity in practice regarding the presentation and classification of certain cash receipts and cash payments, including, among other things, contingent consideration payments made following a business combination and proceeds from the settlement of insurance claims in the statement of cash flows. Cash payments not made soon after the acquisition date up to the amount of the contingent consideration liability recognized at the acquisition date should be classified as financing 42 Table of Contents activities, with any excess payments classified as operating activities, whereas cash payments made soon after the acquisition date to settle the contingent consideration should be classified as investing activities. Cash proceeds received from settlement of insurance claims should be classified on the basis of the nature of the related losses. The amendments in this update are effective for fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance is not expected have a material impact on our consolidated statement of cash flows. In December 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-19, Technical Corrections and Improvements . The new standard is intended to provide clarity to the Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, or correct unintended application of the guidance that is not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities. ASU No. 2016-19 is effective for annual and interim fiscal reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 with respect to the amendments that require transition guidance, and early adoption is permitted. All other amendments were effective on issuance. The Company is currently evaluating the expected impact of the amendments that require transition guidance, but does not expect these to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements upon adoption. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. An entity no longer will determine goodwill impairment by calculating the implied fair value of goodwill by assigning the fair value of a reporting unit to all of its assets and liabilities as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination. Instead, under the amendments in this update, an entity should perform its annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The Board also eliminated the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform a qualitative assessment and, if it fails that qualitative test, to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2020, including interim periods, with early adoption permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The adoption of the amendments in this update is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting to provide clarity and reduce both (1) diversity in practice and (2) cost and complexity when applying the guidance in Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation, to a change to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award. The amendments in this update require us to account for the effects of a modification in a stock-based award unless the fair value, vesting conditions and classification of the modified award is the same as those of the original award immediately before the original award is modified. If the modification does not affect any of the inputs to the valuation technique that the entity uses to value the award, we are not required to estimate the value immediately before and after the modification. The amendments in this update are effective for us beginning with fiscal year 2018, including interim periods within those years, with early adoption permitted in any interim period. The amendments in this update should be applied prospectively to an award modified on or after the adoption date. The adoption of this guidance is not expected have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. In September 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), Leases (Topic 840), and Leases (Topic 842): Amendments to SEC Paragraphs Pursuant to the Staff Announcement at the July 20, 2017 EITF Meeting and Rescission of Prior SEC Staff Announcements and Observer Comments. The amendments in this update modify or supersede certain selected SEC paragraphs in the revenue and leases sections of the Codification and moves other paragraphs, upon adoption of ASC Topic 606 or ASC Topic 842. The amendments also provide updated guidance on the effective date of ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , and ASC 842, Leases for certain entities that are considered public business entities only because their financial statements or financial information is required to be included in another entitys SEC filing, but does not change the effective dates for public business entities. The amendments in this update should be applied upon adoption of ASC Topics 606 and 842, respectively. The adoption of this guidance is not expected have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations The following describes the line items set forth in our unaudited consolidated statements of operations. Net Revenue. Net revenue is generated from sales of radio-frequency, mixed-signal and high-performance analog integrated circuits for the connected home, wired and wireless infrastructure, and industrial and multi-market applications. A significant portion of our end customers purchases products indirectly from us through distributors. Although we actually sell the products to, and are paid by, the distributors, we refer to these end customers as our customers. 43 Table of Contents Cost of Net Revenue. Cost of net revenue includes the cost of finished silicon wafers processed by third-party foundries; costs associated with our outsourced packaging and assembly, test and shipping; costs of personnel, including stock-based compensation, and equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance; amortization of acquired developed technology intangible assets and inventory step-ups to fair value; amortization of certain production mask costs; cost of production load boards and sockets; and an allocated portion of our occupancy costs. Research and Development. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, new product engineering mask costs, prototype integrated circuit packaging and test costs, computer-aided design software license costs, intellectual property license costs, reference design development costs, development testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. Research and development activities include the design of new products, refinement of existing products and design of test methodologies to ensure compliance with required specifications. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, General and Administrative. Selling, general and administrative expense includes personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, amortization of certain acquired intangible assets, distributor and other third-party sales commissions, field application engineering support, travel costs, professional and consulting fees, legal fees, depreciation expense and allocated occupancy costs. IPR&D Impairment Losses. IPR&D impairment losses consist of charges resulting from the impairment of acquired in-process research and development technology intangible assets during the period. Restructuring Charges. Restructuring charges consist of severance, lease and leasehold impairment charges, and other charges related to restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net. Interest and other income (expense), net includes interest income, interest expense and other income (expense). Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investment balances. Interest expense consists of interest accrued on debt. Other income (expense) generally consists of income (expense) generated from non-operating transactions. Income Tax Provision (Benefit). We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expenses for tax and financial statement purposes and the realizability of assets in future years. The following table sets forth our unaudited consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of net revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Net revenue 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of net revenue 54 42 49 40 Gross profit 46 58 51 60 Operating expenses: Research and development 26 27 27 25 Selling, general and administrative 26 18 26 16 IPR&D impairment losses 2 1 1 Restructuring charges 2 3 1 Total operating expenses 55 46 56 42 Income (loss) from operations (9 ) 12 (5 ) 18 Interest and other income (expense), net (4 ) (2 ) Income (loss) before income taxes (14 ) 12 (8 ) 18 Income tax provision (benefit) (6 ) 1 (11 ) 1 Net income (loss) (8 )% 11 % 3 % 17 % 44 Table of Contents Net Revenue Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Connected home $ 65,621 $ 85,202 $ (19,581 ) (23 )% $ 222,074 $ 273,997 $ (51,923 ) (19 )% % of net revenue 58 % 88 % 72 % 91 % Infrastructure 23,714 10,977 12,737 116 % 50,666 24,091 26,575 110 % % of net revenue 21 % 11 % 17 % 8 % Industrial and multi-market 24,246 145 24,101 16,621 % 33,857 2,608 31,249 1,198 % % of net revenue 21 % % 11 % 1 % Total net revenue $ 113,581 $ 96,324 $ 17,257 18 % $ 306,597 $ 300,696 $ 5,901 2 % Net revenue increased $17.3 million from $96.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 to $113.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $19.6 million was primarily driven by the anticipated declines in shipments of analog channel-stacking solutions for the satellite pay-TV market, inclusion of legacy video SoC revenue, which declined significantly year-over-year, and lower year-over-year revenues from satellite gateway and hybrid TV tuners, which were partially offset by increased cable modem, data and video gateway and related MOCA products, terrestrial set-top box tuner demodulator shipments, and a full quarter contribution from G.hn consumer premises equipment products acquired from Marvell in April 2017. Infrastructure revenue increased $12.7 million , primarily related to the full quarter contribution from power management and data encryption products from our recent acquisition of Exar in May 2017, from the incremental contribution of wireless backhaul products acquired from Broadcom in July 2016, from full quarter contribution from G.hn last mile access products acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and increased MOCA last mile access products, partially offset by year-over-year declines in our high-speed optical interconnect products serving the Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-out. The increase in industrial and multi-market net revenue of $24.1 million was primarily related to the full quarter contribution of shipments from Exar. We expect future revenue declines related to the legacy video SoC and satellite analog channel-stacking products to not be significant moving forward, as these products are near the end of their life cycles. Net revenue increased $5.9 million from $300.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to $306.6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease in connected home net revenue of $51.9 million was primarily driven by the anticipated declines in satellite analog channel-stacking solutions for the satellite pay-TV market, inclusion of legacy video SoC revenue, which declined significantly year-over-year, and satellite gateway and related MOCA products, which were partially offset by increased cable modem and data gateway, and terrestrial set-top box tuner demodulator shipments. The increase in infrastructure revenues of $26.6 million was primarily related to the incremental contribution of shipments from our recently acquired wireless infrastructure businesses which were acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016, respectively, and from power management and data encryption products acquired from Exar in May 2017, which were partially offset by year-over-year declines in our high-speed interconnect products serving the Chinese Metro market infrastructure build-outs. The increase in industrial and multi-market net revenue of $31.2 million was related to the incremental contribution of shipments from Exar. We expect year-over-year revenue declines in the legacy video SoC and satellite analog channel-stacking products to no longer be significant moving forward, as these products are near the end of their life cycles. Cost of Net Revenue and Gross Profit Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Cost of net revenue $ 61,739 $ 40,820 $ 20,919 51 % $ 150,727 $ 121,109 29,618 24 % % of net revenue 54 % 42 % 49 % 40 % Gross profit 51,842 55,504 (3,662 ) (7 )% 155,870 179,587 (23,717 ) (13 )% % of net revenue 46 % 58 % 51 % 60 % 45 Table of Contents Cost of net revenue increased $20.9 million from $40.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 to $61.7 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by higher sales, and increased inventory step-up amortization of $7.6 million and acquired intangible amortization of $5.3 million primarily related to recent acquisitions of Exar Corporation in May 2017 and the G.hn business from Marvell in April 2017. The gross profit percentage decreased to 46% in the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to 58% in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Cost of net revenue increased $29.6 million from $121.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to $150.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by increased inventory step-up amortization of $12.9 million and acquired intangible amortization of $10.9 million primarily related to recent acquisitions of Exar in May 2017, the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and the wireless infrastructure businesses acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016, and higher sales. The gross profit percentage decreased to 51% in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to 60% in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Research and Development Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 29,270 $ 25,921 $ 3,349 13 % $ 82,163 $ 73,710 $ 8,453 11 % % of net revenue 26 % 27 % 27 % 25 % Research and development expense increased $3.3 million from $25.9 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 to $29.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to increases in payroll-related expense of $2.7 million, depreciation expense of $0.6 million, and computer-aided design tools expense of $0.6 million related to our recent acquisitions of Exar Corporation in May 2017, and the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017. These increases were partially offset by lower prototype expense of $0.6 million. Research and development expense in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 increased $8.5 million to $82.2 million from $73.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increases in payroll-related expense of $8.0 million, depreciation expense of $1.6 million, and computer-aided design tools expense of $1.4 million related to our recent acquisitions of Exar in May 2017, the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and the wireless infrastructure businesses acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016. These increases were partially offset by lower prototype expenses of $2.7 million. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future as we continue to focus on expanding our product portfolio and enhancing existing products. Selling, General and Administrative Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Selling, general and administrative $ 29,037 $ 17,619 $ 11,418 65 % $ 78,988 $ 47,734 $ 31,254 65 % % of net revenue 26 % 18 % 26 % 16 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased $11.4 million from $17.6 million in the three months ended September 30, 2016 , to $29.0 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in amortization expense of $6.8 million related to intangible assets from our recent acquisitions of Exar Corporation in May 2017, and the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, an increase in payroll-related expenses of $3.2 million related to such acquisitions, and an increase in professional fees of $0.8 million related to our merger and acquisition activities. 46 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expense increased $31.3 million from $47.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , to $79.0 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in professional fees of $8.3 million related to our merger and acquisition activities during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase in intangible amortization expense of $16.0 million related to intangibles assets from our recent acquisitions of Exar Corporation in May 2017, the G.hn business acquired from Marvell in April 2017, and the wireless infrastructure businesses acquired from Microsemi and Broadcom in April 2016 and July 2016, and increases in payroll-related expenses of $6.0 million and occupancy expenses of $0.7 million related to such acquisitions. We expect selling, general and administrative expenses to increase in the future as we expand our sales and marketing organization to enable expansion into existing and new markets. Restructuring charges Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 2,178 $ $ 2,178 100 % $ 8,724 $ 2,106 6,618 314% % of net revenue 2 % % 3 % 1 % Restructuring charges increased from $0 in the three months ended September 30, 2016 to $2.2 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The charges in the three months ended September 30, 2017 consisted of severance-related charges of $1.7 million in connection with employee separation expenses and $0.4 million in lease-related and other charges. In the three months ended September 30, 2016 , there were no similar charges. Restructuring charges increased $6.6 million from $2.1 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 to $8.7 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The charges in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 consisted of adjustments to the estimates of net present value of the remaining lease obligation for actual sublease income and period costs associated with certain vacated facilities, including commissions to brokers involved in subleasing property, under lease arrangements assumed in connection with the Entropic acquisition. In the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , the charges included $4.9 million of incremental stock-based compensation from the acceleration of certain stock-based awards we assumed from Exar Corporation due to change in control provisions upon termination or diminution of authority of former Exar executives, other severance-related charges of $2.8 million and lease restructuring charges of $0.9 million related to exiting certain Exar facilities. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Interest and other income (expense), net $ (4,800 ) $ 99 $ (4,899 ) (4,948 )% $ (7,504 ) $ 362 $ (7,866 ) (2,173 )% % of net revenue (4 )% % (2 )% % Interest and other income (expense) reversed by $4.9 million from the three months ended September 30, 2016 , becoming a net expense of $4.8 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 . Similarly, interest and other income (expense) reversed by $7.9 million from the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , becoming a net expense of $7.5 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The decrease s are primarily due to interest expense of $4.1 million and $6.3 million incurred in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 , respectively, related to interest charges on outstanding debt under the Exar acquisition term loan facility during such periods, as well as increases in other expenses related to fluctuations in foreign currency transactions as a result of increased activities from existing and newly acquired foreign subsidiaries. 47 Table of Contents Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change 2017 2016 $ Change % Change (dollars in thousands) (dollars in thousands) Income tax provision (benefit) $ (6,276 ) $ 1,084 $ (7,360 ) (679 )% $ (33,770 ) $ 2,155 (35,925 ) (1,667 )% % of net revenue (6 )% 1 % (11 )% 1 % The income tax benefit in the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $6.3 million , or approximately 41% of pre-tax loss compared to an income tax provision of $1.1 million , or approximately 10% of pre-tax income in the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The income tax benefit in the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $33.8 million , or approximately 144% of pre-tax loss compared to an income tax provision of $2.2 million , or approximately 4% of pre-tax income in the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The income tax benefit in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2017 primarily relates to the release of the federal valuation allowance during the three months ended June 30, 2017, offset by certain discrete tax effects related to initial intercompany royalties from our Singapore subsidiary to our U.S. parent during the three months ended June 30, 2017. Of the federal valuation allowance of $61.6 million as of December 31, 2016 , the Company released $50.1 million during the three months ended June 30, 2017. The ending federal valuation allowance as of September 30, 2017 was $11.5 million . The provision for income taxes in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 primarily relates to federal alternative minimum tax due to the Company's limitation on use of net operating losses, credit carryforwards, state income taxes, and income taxes on certain foreign jurisdictions. During the quarter ended June 30, 2016, the Company adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Improvements to Share Based Compensation , which resulted in the recognition of excess tax benefits within the provision for income taxes in the unaudited consolidated statement of operations. Since the amount of such excess tax benefits and deficiencies depend on the fair market value of our common stock, our income tax provision is now subject to volatility in our stock price and in the future, could unfavorably affect our future effective tax rate. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance to offset state and certain foreign deferred tax assets, as realization of such assets does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold required under accounting guidelines. In making such determination, we consider all available positive and negative evidence quarterly, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies, and recent financial performance. Based upon our review of all positive and negative evidence, we concluded that a full valuation allowance should continue to be recorded against our state and certain foreign net deferred tax assets at September 30, 2017 . We are closely assessing the need for a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets by evaluating positive and negative evidence that may exist. In the future, we could remove some or all of the valuation allowance against our state and certain foreign deferred tax assets if we meet the more-likely-than-not threshold at such time. In the quarter ended June 30, 2017, our subsidiary in Singapore began operating under certain tax incentives in Singapore, which are generally effective through March 2022 and may be extended through March 2027. Under these incentives, qualifying income derived from certain sales of our integrated circuits is taxed at a concessionary rate over the incentive period. We also receive a reduced withholding tax rate on certain intercompany royalty payments made by our Singapore subsidiary during the incentive period. Such incentives are conditional upon our meeting certain minimum employment and investment thresholds within Singapore over time, and we may be required to return certain tax benefits in the event the Company does not achieve compliance related to that incentive period. We currently believe that we will be able to satisfy these conditions without material risk. Primarily because of our Singapore net operating losses and our full valuation allowance in Singapore, we do not believe the incentives will have a material impact on our income tax position in the periods ending December 31, 2017 or December 31, 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $71.6 million , restricted cash of $2.5 million and net accounts receivable of $75.6 million . Our primary uses of cash are to fund operating expenses, purchases of inventory, the acquisition of businesses, property and equipment and intangible assets. Our cash and cash equivalents are impacted by the timing of when we pay expenses as reflected in the change in our outstanding accounts payable and accrued expenses. We also use cash to pay down outstanding 48 Table of Contents debt. Cash used to fund operating expenses in our consolidated statements of cash flows excludes the impact of non-cash items such as stock-based compensation and amortization and depreciation of property and equipment and acquired intangible assets, and step-ups of acquired inventory to fair value. Cash used to fund acquisitions of businesses and other capital purchases is included in investing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Cash used to pay down outstanding debt is included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Our primary sources of cash are cash receipts on accounts receivable from our shipment of products to distributors and direct customers. Aside from the growth in amounts billed to our customers, net cash collections of accounts receivable are impacted by the efficiency of our cash collections process, which can vary from period to period depending on the payment cycles of our major distributor customers, and relative linearity of shipments period-to-period. In the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , we also received net proceeds from borrowings associated with the Exar acquisition which are included in financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The credit agreement permits us to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. We have not requested any incremental loans to date. Following is a summary of our working capital and cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments for the periods indicated: September 30, December 31, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Working capital $ 121,037 $ 158,304 Cash and cash equivalents $ 71,576 $ 81,086 Short-term restricted cash 615 614 Long-term restricted cash 1,905 1,196 Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 74,096 82,896 Short-term investments 47,918 Long-term investments 5,991 Total cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and investments $ 74,096 $ 136,805 Following is a summary of our cash flows provided by (used in) operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the periods indicated: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 53,321 $ 89,714 Net cash used in investing activities (429,111 ) (99,770 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 365,779 (1,737 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1,211 (87 ) Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (8,800 ) $ (11,880 ) 49 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $53.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Net cash provided by operating activities for this period primarily consisted of net income of $10.3 million , $91.4 million in non-cash operating expenses and $6.6 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by $48.4 million in deferred income taxes which primarily relates to the release of the U.S. federal valuation allowance during the quarter ended June 30, 2017 and $6.6 million in excess tax benefits on stock-based awards. Non-cash operating expense items included in net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and acquired intangible assets of $46.5 million , stock-based compensation of $24.9 million , amortization of inventory step-ups to fair value of $15.8 million , impairment of IPR&D assets of $2.0 million and losses on foreign currency of $1.4 million . Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 excludes revenue of $6.1 million and gross profit of $4.7 million that would have been recorded by Exar on a sell-through basis had deferred revenue and deferred profit as of the May 12, 2017 acquisition date not been eliminated in the purchase price allocation for Exar as a result of acquisition accounting. Net cash provided by operating activities was $89.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Net cash provided by operating activities for this period primarily consisted of net positive cash flow from adding back $40.2 million in non-cash operating expenses to net income of $52.9 million , changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.6 million , partially offset by excess tax benefits on stock-based awards of $6.0 million . Non-cash operating expenses included in net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 primarily included depreciation and amortization expense of property and equipment and acquired intangible assets of $18.7 million , stock-based compensation of $16.5 million , amortization of acquired inventory step-ups of $3.0 million and impairment of IPR&D assets of $1.3 million . Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $429.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Net cash used in investing activities for this period consisted primarily of $452.3 million in cash used in the acquisition of Exar, net of cash acquired, $21.0 million in cash used in the acquisition of the G.hn business, $30.6 million in purchases of securities, $5.4 million in purchases of intangible assets and $ 4.4 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $84.5 million in sales and maturities of securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $99.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Net cash used in investing activities for this period consisted primarily of $101.0 million of cash used in the acquisitions of the wireless infrastructure access business from Microsemi in April 2016 and the wireless infrastructure backhaul business from Broadcom in July 2016, $80.3 million in cash outflows from purchases of securities, and $6.8 million in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $88.7 million in cash inflows from the sales and maturities of securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $365.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , and consisted primarily of $416.8 million in net proceeds from borrowings under a term loan we entered in connection with the acquisition of Exar and $9.1 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock, partially offset by aggregate prepayments of principal of $50.0 million on outstanding debt and $9.8 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees related to vesting of restricted stock units. Net cash used in financing activities was $1.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , and consisted primarily of $6.2 million in minimum tax withholding paid on behalf of employees related to vesting of restricted stock units, partially offset by $4.5 million in net proceeds from issuance of common stock. We believe that our $71.6 million of cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2017 will be sufficient to fund our projected operating requirements for at least the next twelve months. On April 4, 2017, we used $21.0 million of cash to purchase the G.hn business of Marvell. On May 12, 2017, we paid aggregate cash consideration of $688.1 million , including $12.7 million of cash paid to settle certain stock-based awards that were not assumed by MaxLinear, in the acquisition and merger of Exar. We funded the transaction with cash from the balance sheet of the combined companies and the net proceeds of approximately $416.8 million from $425.0 million of transaction debt. We have repaid $50.0 million of Exar-related transaction debt to date. The credit agreement permits the Company to request incremental loans in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the sum of $160.0 million (subject to adjustments for any voluntary prepayments), plus an unlimited amount that is subject to pro forma compliance with certain secured leverage ratio and total leverage ratio tests. Incremental loans are subject to certain additional conditions, including obtaining additional commitments from the lenders then party to the credit agreement 50 Table of Contents or new lenders. The term loan facility has a seven-year term and bears interest at either an Adjusted LIBOR or an Adjusted Base Rate, at our option, plus a fixed applicable margin. Our cash and cash equivalents in recent years have been favorably affected by our implementation of an equity-based bonus program for our employees, including executives. In connection with that bonus program, in February 2017, we issued 0.2 million freely-tradable shares of our Class A common stock in settlement of bonus awards for the July 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 performance period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we may need to raise additional capital or incur additional indebtedness to fund strategic initiatives or operating activities, particularly if we continue to pursue acquisitions. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our engineering, sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of our expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and potential material investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed, we may not be able to sustain our operations. Warranties and Indemnifications In connection with the sale of products in the ordinary course of business, we often make representations affirming, among other things, that our products do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, and agree to indemnify customers against third-party claims for such infringement. Further, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws require us to indemnify our officers and directors against any action that may arise out of their services in that capacity, and we have also entered into indemnification agreements with respect to all of our directors and certain controlling persons. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, or SPEs, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of September 30, 2017 , we were not involved in any unconsolidated SPE transactions. Contractual Obligations As of September 30, 2017 , future minimum payments under non-cancelable operating leases, inventory purchase obligations, and other obligations are as follows: Payments due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 Years (in thousands) Operating lease obligations $ 45,637 $ 2,868 $ 18,595 $ 18,520 $ 5,654 Inventory purchase obligations 32,908 32,908 Other obligations 21,274 2,408 15,055 3,811 Total $ 99,819 $ 38,184 $ 33,650 $ 22,331 $ 5,654 Our contractual obligations including leases, inventory purchase obligations and other obligations, which includes software licenses, decreased by $14.2 million to $99.8 million as of September 30, 2017 , from $114.0 million as of June 30, 2017 primarily as a result of contractual payments made on our operating leases, software licenses and outstanding inventory orders during the period. 51 Table of Contents