Item 7 - Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - Results of operations for more information. 7 Table of Contents We designed our business model to be capital efficient, with high operating leverage and cash flow conversion. We have funded our growth primarily through internally generated cash flow with no outside primary capital. Our strong cash flow generation is driven by (i) the nature of our revenue model, which is fee based and generated at the time a Consumer Referral is sold, and (ii) our proprietary technology platform, which is highly scalable and requires minimal capital expenditures ($0.7 million and $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively). The foundation of our success is our company culture. Personal development is critical to our teams engagement and retention, and we continually invest to support our core values of open-mindedness, intellectual curiosity, candor, and humility. This has resulted in a growth-minded team, with low turnover, committed to building great products and the long-term success of our partners. In the second half of 2021, many of our demand partners in our P&C vertical experienced higher-than-expected underwriting losses, which caused them to reduce their advertising budgets and consequently led to lower than expected growth for our business. We believe we are poised to capitalize on the continued shift among P&C carriers to direct, digital distribution when underwriting profitability recovers. In our health and life insurance verticals, we continue to capitalize on the shift to direct, digital distribution. We aim to drive deeper adoption and integration of our platform within the insurance ecosystem to continue delivering strong results to our partners. While our focus remains on insurance, we plan to continue to grow opportunistically in sectors with similar market dynamics. _________________________________________ (1) Transaction Value is an operating metric that we present in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to supplement the financial information we present on a GAAP basis. Transaction Value represents the total gross dollars transacted by our partners on our platform. See Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-Key business and operating metrics. Our market opportunity Insurance is one of the largest industries in the United States, with attractive growth characteristics and market fundamentals. Insurance companies wrote over $2 trillion in premiums for the twelve months ended September 30, 2021, growing at a 6% CAGR from the same period in 2018, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. Demand for insurance products is stable, due to, in many instances, coverage being mandated by law (for example, auto insurance) or federally subsidized (for example, senior health insurance). The industry as a whole is highly competitive and invests heavily in customer acquisition. Total customer acquisition spend in the insurance industry was approximately $140 billion in 2020 and is expected to grow to approximately $176 billion by 2025, according to William Blair. Our technology platform was created to serve and grow with our insurance end markets. As such, we believe secular trends in the insurance industry will continue to provide strong tailwinds for our business. Direct-to-consumer is the fastest growing insurance distribution channel. In the auto insurance industry, there are direct-to-consumer carriers (such as Progressive and GEICO) and more traditional, agent-based carriers (such as State Farm, Liberty Mutual and Allstate). DTC carriers accounted for approximately 31% of industry premiums in 2019, up from approximately 23% in 2013, according to S&P Global Market Intelligence. This industry shift to more direct distribution is accelerating. This growth is largely driven by their outsized investments, relative to peers, in direct customer acquisition channels. According to S&P Global Market Intelligence, GEICOs customer acquisition spend increased from $1.5 billion in 2017 to $2.2 billion in 2020, representing over 42% growth, and Progressives customer acquisition spend increased from $0.9 billion in 2017 to $2.0 billion in 2020, representing 114% growth. Traditional, agent-based carriers have 8 Table of Contents responded by investing more heavily in direct customer acquisition efforts themselves, as well as launching digital brands (such as Nationwide and Spire), acquiring digital agencies (such as Prudential and AssuranceIQ), or acquiring digital insurers (such as Allstate and Squaretrade). At the same time, a number of personal lines InsurTech companies have entered the space to capitalize on this shift (such as Root, Lemonade, and Hippo). Similarly, tech-enabled distribution businesses focused on health and life insurance, such as eHealth, GoHealth, and SelectQuote, have also emerged in recent years. These companies advertise and acquire customers primarily through digital means and rank among the largest distribution platforms for health and life insurance products. More insurance consumers are shopping online. Consumers are increasingly using the internet not just for research and price discovery but to purchase insurance as well. The J.D. Power 2021 U.S. Insurance Shopping Study suggests that 88% of consumers are open to purchasing their auto insurance online. By comparison, a decade ago, 35% of consumers who had not made an online auto insurance policy purchase in the past said they would consider doing so in the future, according to the Comscore 2010 Online Auto Insurance Shopping Report. This shift is not only prevalent among younger insurance shoppers. According to LexisNexis Insurance Demand Meter, consumers 56 and older were the fastest growing group of online auto insurance shoppers in 2020. Insurance customer acquisition spending is growing. Total insurance customer acquisition spending in 2020 totaled $140 billion and is expected to grow to $176 billion by 2025, according to William Blair. In fact, two of the top three most-advertised brands in the U.S. across traditional and online channels are insurance companiesProgressive and GEICO. According to S&P Global Market Intelligence, Progressives customer acquisition spend grew approximately 18% year over year to nearly $2.0 billion in 2020, while GEICOs customer acquisition spend grew approximately 11% to nearly $2.2 billion in the same period. In the face of such aggressive spending and customer acquisition by DTC insurance carriers such as Progressive and GEICO, agent-based carriers are compelled to spend heavily to remain competitive. Digital customer acquisition spending by insurers has plenty of headroom. According to William Blair, insurance carriers lag in customer acquisition spend in terms of percentage of advertising budget allocated to digital. While the advertising industry as a whole allocates approximately 65% of their budgets to digital, insurers allocated nearly 20% of their budgets to digital channels in 2020. William Blair further estimates that digital spend by the insurance industry is expected to grow at a 20% CAGR over the next five years, exceeding $22 billion by 2025. Carriers and distributors are increasingly focused on optimizing customer acquisition budgets. Mass-market customer acquisition spend is becoming more costly, leading carriers and distributors to increasingly focus on optimizing customer acquisition spend. They are able to do so by adopting the more sophisticated customer acquisition strategies enabled by data science. A significant percentage of marketers believe the inability to measure customer acquisition impact across channels and campaigns is one of their biggest challenges in demonstrating customer acquisition performance. We believe there is growing demand for 9 Table of Contents improved transparency of Consumer Referral quality, for carriers to secure higher quality Consumer Referrals online, and for the ability to manage consumer acquisition spend across multiple vendors. MediaAlpha is poised to capitalize on these trends. We believe we provide one of the leading technology platforms that enables insurance carriers and distributors to efficiently acquire customers online at scale. Our platform allows buyers to target consumers granularly and to determine their pricing based on how they value various consumer segments. Buyers leveraging our data science capabilities make value-maximizing decisions on how to acquire customers. This results in greater customer acquisition efficiency and better return on investment, allowing us to attract more buyers into the ecosystem. Simultaneously, we provide our supply partners the insights and tools they need to drive competition for their high-intent consumers and maximize yield, which draws more supply partners into the ecosystem, providing our buyers with even more high-quality demand sources. As both demand and supply partners begin to see the benefits of the platform, we deepen our relationships with them through additional integrations that drive more data into the platform. All of this creates the powerful flywheel effect that has propelled our business forward as a result of the value created within our ecosystem. Our platform We have created one of the largest global insurance customer acquisition technology platforms. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we had $1.0 billion in Transaction Value and served over 1,600 total insurance partners. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had $815.7 million in Transaction Value and served over 1,000 total insurance partners. During 2021, over 375 million high-intent consumers shopped for insurance products on the websites of sellers on our platform and our proprietary websites, resulting in over 98 million Consumer Referrals acquired by buyers on our platform. We serve over 1,290 buyers across our core insurance verticals, including insurance carriers, InsurTech companies, agencies, and brokers. Our platform was designed for multiple Consumer Referral products and flexible deployment models to best serve the varying needs of our partners. Insurance carriers access our platform through a self-service web interface that enables them to manage customer acquisition strategies across all sources of Consumer Referrals, efficiently and with full transparency. Our platform provides insurance companies sophisticated targeting capabilities for efficient customer acquisition. Further, it offers our carrier partners the ability to offset their customer acquisition costs by using predictive analytics to identify and refer non-converting consumers to other carriers, delivering better returns on investment relative to traditional channels. 10 Table of Contents We connect insurance companies with websites where consumers shop for insurance. Insurance carriers and distributors are able to target high-intent consumers when they are actively shopping for insurance. Our end consumers typically access our partners websites or our proprietary websites looking for an insurance quote, where they volunteer relevant data in connection with their quote request. Our platform then controls the matching of these consumers with insurance companies, presenting them with multiple brands to choose from. We believe the rich data available with every consumer quote request gives our platform the unparalleled ability to direct each Consumer Referral to the right set of carriers. We maximize value to both demand and supply partners by allowing insurance companies to reach consumers when they are actively shopping and precisely target granular consumer segments using rich data. 11 Table of Contents We enable insurance companies to reach and acquire new customers in multiple ways. In our platform, end consumers can engage with insurance companies based on their preferences. Our platform enables consumers to (i) proceed to an insurance carriers website on a self-directed basis to purchase a policy (click), (ii) engage with an insurance carrier or agent via phone (call), or (iii) submit their data to insurance companies to receive inbound inquiries (lead). Our platforms flexibility in turn enables insurance carriers to acquire and convert consumers through one or more touchpoints, depending on their strengths and preferences. As of December 31, 2021, clicks, calls, and leads represented 79.3%, 9.5%, and 11.3% of our Transaction Value, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, clicks, calls, and leads represented 79.9%, 8.1%, and 12.0% of our Transaction Value, respectively. Our platform leverages precise data and data science for maximum efficiency. Insurance carriers use precise data to target and price consumer segments across demographic and geographic attributes on a source transparent basis. This allows insurance carriers to pay the right price for each Consumer Referral based on their business objectives. Insurance carriers integrate with our platform to provide real-time conversion feedback, allowing them to measure returns on their spending granularly and execute algorithmic optimization of customer acquisition cost to match expected LTV. Increasing the number and depth of our conversion integrations with our partners remains a key part of our strategy. Insurance carriers are able to extract the maximum value from each consumer opportunity. We have extensive data integrations with our partners to support efficient customer acquisition. These data integrations allow us to more seamlessly transact a Consumer Referral by taking information an end consumer has already provided and pre-populating it into an insurance carriers purchase process, potentially increasing policy conversion rates. This enhances the value of the Consumer Referral to our insurance carriers, adding significant value to all parties in our platform. As of December 31, 2021, we had 71 buyers with this type of integration in place for active and future campaigns, representing 67% of the total Transaction Value from our insurance verticals for the year then ended. Increasing the number and depth of our data integrations with our partners remains a key part of our strategy, and we believe this number will increase as our platform grows. Our transaction models. We transact with our demand partners and supply partners through two operating models, Open Marketplace and Private Marketplace. In our Open Marketplace transactions, we have separate agreements with demand partners and suppliers and have control over the Consumer Referrals that are sold to our demand partners. In our Private Marketplace transactions, demand partners and suppliers contract with one another directly, and we earn fees from our demand and supply partners based on the Consumer Referrals transacted. For more information regarding these arrangements, see Managements discussion and analysis-Key components of our results of operations-Revenue. Our technology Our product is a technology platform that allows insurance carriers and distributors to acquire customers and optimize customer acquisition costs to align with expected customer LTV, in a single data-rich but user-friendly environment. Our technology is what enables our growth, scale, and operating leverage and differentiates us from our competitors. It is also what enables our partners to scale their customer acquisition and monetization efficiently and with minimal operating overhead. With over 98 million paid transactions on our platform in 2021, we believe we offer the largest source of Consumer Referrals in the insurance sector. Our product is a robust, real-time customer acquisition, and data analytics platform. It is fueled by rich, anonymized consumer data provided by our extensive data integrations with our partners. At the heart of our platform is a set of proprietary predictive analytics algorithms that incorporate hundreds of variables to generate conversion probabilities for each unique consumer, enabling our partners to align customer acquisition costs with expected customer LTV across the platform. Our platform architecture is elegant, scalable, and vertical agnostic, which has enabled us to innovate rapidly in our core insurance verticals and grow opportunistically across sectors with similarly attractive attributes. We continuously invest in our technology and believe that our focus on innovation enhances our competitive position. We believe the following attributes collectively differentiate the MediaAlpha technology platform: Multiple high-quality Consumer Referrals accessible through a single platform with transparent pricing and control. Most insurance carriers and distributors today have multiple sources for customer acquisition. These sources offer a wide range of Consumer Referral quality and, in most cases, must be managed manually and separately by insurance carriers. Our platform allows users to access multiple sources of Consumer Referrals transparently through a unified platform with a single sign-on, creating scale and operational efficiencies. 12 Table of Contents Proprietary user data integrated in a secure environment. Our platform allows buyers to fully integrate first-party consumer data to enhance targeting parameters, bidding granularity, and conversion tracking, resulting in more accurate customer acquisition and LTV predictions. We maintain robust data security protections and preserve the confidentiality of each insurance carriers customer acquisition strategy. We are able to seamlessly aggregate this data across all of our users to enhance our data analytics models while maintaining end-consumer confidentiality. We believe this has allowed us to continue strengthening our rich consumer database and analytics platform and maintain strong relationships with our partners. Robust data science tools to optimize customer acquisition. Our unique search and conversion datasets enable automated, algorithmic customer acquisition optimizations. As our platform grows and processes more customer acquisition transactions, we gather more conversion data to further refine our predictive analytics algorithms. This further enhances our platforms capability to predict our partners expected return per consumer and support more efficient customer acquisition strategies. We believe this creates a flywheel effect by which the attractiveness and value of our platform will continue to grow as we scale our marketplaces. Self-service model. We offer a self-service model that empowers our partners to directly manage the buying and selling process independently. Supply partners can easily manage their digital consumer traffic on our platform, while demand partners can direct their consumer acquisition spend in real time with minimal involvement from our team. We believe this enables us to scale efficiently without requiring significant investments in sales and support functions. Highly extensible and scalable platform. Our platform and industry-agnostic technology enables us to quickly expand our operations into existing and adjacent verticals with minimal investments. We have organically scaled the property & casualty insurance vertical and the health and life insurance verticals to $655.6 million and $297.5 million in Transaction Value, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2021. While our primary focus remains on insurance, we intend to continue to grow opportunistically in sectors with similar, attractive market fundamentals. We believe our proprietary technology will allow us to react nimbly to growing demands and opportunities in emerging verticals. Our target audience Our buyers: Our demand partners are insurance carriers and distributors looking to target high-intent consumers deep in their purchase journey. Repeat buyers continue to be a strong driver of our growth, with 96.9% of our Transaction Value for 2021 driven by repeat buyers from 2020 (with total Transaction Value from such repeat buyers increasing 5.0% in 2021) and 96.7% of our Transaction Value for 2020 driven by repeat buyers from 2019. Annual spend per demand partner on our platform with over $1 million in Transaction Value has continued to increase, from $6.0 million in 2019 to $9.0 million in 2020 to $9.1 million in 2021. Our value proposition for buyers Efficiency at scale. We believe we operate the insurance industrys largest customer acquisition platform, delivering the volume insurance companies need to drive meaningful business results, while also providing precise targeting capabilities to ensure they connect with the right prospects. We believe this gives our demand partners the ability to realize greater efficiencies relative to other customer acquisition channels. Granular and transparent control. Our platform allows for real-time, granular control and full-source transparency with every buying and pricing decision. We believe this gives our buyers the flexibility they need to realize favorable LTV relative to customer acquisition costs to maximize their revenue opportunities and the effectiveness of their marketing investments. Unparalleled partnership. With a fully managed service option, custom integrations, and industry-leading technology, we are dedicated to providing long-term value to our demand partners businesses. We have designed our platform to put the best interests of our partners first, fostering a healthy ecosystem within which buyers can transact with confidence. Our Sellers: Our supply partners use our platform to monetize their digital consumer traffic. Our supply partners are primarily insurance carriers looking to maximize the value of non-converting or low LTV consumers, and insurance-focused research destinations and financial websites looking to monetize high-intent customers. Repeat sellers continue to be a strong driver of our growth, with 99.0% of our Transaction Value for 2021 driven by repeat sellers from 2020 (with Transaction Value from such repeat sellers increasing 22.7% in 2021) and 97.9% of our Transaction Value for 2020 driven by repeat sellers from 2019. Annual spend per supply partner on our platform representing over $1 million in Transaction Value annually has continued to increase, from $7.8 million in 2019 to $11.9 million in 2020 to $13.9 million in 2021. 13 Table of Contents Our value proposition for sellers Yield maximization . Our proprietary technology platform provides sellers with a suite of optimization tools, as well as inventory and buyer management features, that maximize competition for, and yield from, their high-intent consumers. Predictive analysis . Through our platforms advanced predictive analysis and data science capabilities, sellers can assess conversion probabilities and expected customer LTV for every consumer in real time. We believe the integration of these data science models with our sellers user experience decision engines is a unique differentiator of our business. Real-time insights. We provide our sellers with unique data as to the type of consumer segments each buyer values. By providing in-depth reporting and real-time, granular insights, our sellers have the ability to continuously optimize their own customer acquisition and monetization decisions. Our End Consumers: Our end consumers are primarily high-intent, online insurance shoppers. Due to the broad participation of top-tier insurance carriers within our ecosystem, consumers are able to more efficiently navigate a range of options and offers relevant to their policy searches. During the year ended December 31, 2021, over 375 million high-intent consumers shopped for insurance products through the websites of sellers on our platform and our proprietary websites. Our value proposition for end consumers Search relevancy. By enabling insurance carriers and distributors to apply sophisticated targeting, we facilitate the delivery of hyper-relevant product options to our end consumers based on consumer-provided demographics and other relevant characteristics. We believe this improves the overall research and purchase experience and allows our end consumers to make better real-time decisions. Shopping efficiency. We facilitate access to the most relevant products for each respective end consumer, allowing for minimal research and maximum efficiency, through an omni-channel, seamless consumer platform experience. We enable consumers to comparison shop and interact with insurance carriers and distributors through multiple mediums, including directly online or offline. Our strengths We believe that our competitive advantages are based on the following key strengths: Highly scalable, innovative technology platform with rich data. Our proprietary platform is built to be highly extensible and flexible, enabling us to quickly and efficiently develop custom solutions and tools to address the varying and evolving needs of our partners. Supported by our proprietary algorithms, our platform is able to provide continuous, real-time feedback and insights that buyers can use to maximize the value of every consumer opportunity. Our deep data integrations allow our buyers to utilize millions of anonymized data points to target and acquire their desired customers with a unique level of precision and control. As of December 31, 2021, there were over 420 insurance supply partners on our platform. We also provide our supply partners with sophisticated, data-driven yield management and monetization capabilities. We believe these capabilities are critical to our partners monetization strategies, as they enable optimization of business performance and revenue. Our platform is vertical agnostic, allowing us to quickly and easily expand into new markets with attractive attributes. The increased participation in our technology-driven platform will continue to generate valuable data, enhance feedback loops, and drive stronger results for all participants in the ecosystem. We believe this creates a flywheel effect as our platform continues to grow. Superior operating leverage. We designed our business to be highly scalable, driving sustainable long-term growth that delivers superior value to both demand and supply partners. Our technology enables us to grow in a highly capital efficient manner, with minimal need for working capital or capital expenditure investment. In 2021, we employed 138 individuals on average, who drove $1.0 billion of Transaction Value ($7.4 million per employee), $8.5 million of net loss ($0.1 million per employee), and $58.2 million of Adjusted EBITDA ($0.4 million per employee) and in 2020, we employed 100 individuals on average who drove $815.7 million of Transaction Value ($8.2 million per employee), $10.6 million of net income ($0.1 million per employee), and $58.1 million of Adjusted EBITDA ($0.6 million per employee) for the year. Sticky, tenured relationships with insurance carriers and distributors. We have developed multi-faceted, deeply-integrated partnerships with insurance carriers and distributors, who are often both buyers and sellers 14 Table of Contents on our platform. We enable insurance carriers and distributors as buyers to optimize customer acquisition spend by offering source-level transparency, granular controls, and predictive tools to drive measurably superior performance. When we work with these same carriers and distributors as sellers, we enable them to use data science to maximize value from consumers by turning high-intent policy shoppers unlikely to convert with that specific carrier or distributor into highly valuable Consumer Referrals for other carriers or distributors. We believe the versatility and breadth of our offerings, coupled with our focus on high-quality products, provide significant value to insurance carriers and distributors, resulting in strong retention rates. As a result, many insurance carriers and distributors use our platform as their central hub for broadly managing digital customer acquisition and monetization. Our relationships with our partners are deep, long standing, and involve the top-tier insurance carriers in the industry. 15 of the top 20 largest auto insurance carriers by customer acquisition spend are demand partners on our platform. In 2021, 96.9% of total Transaction Value executed on our platform came from demand partner relationships in 2020. In 2020, 96.7% of total Transaction Value executed on our platform came from demand partner relationships in 2019. Culture of transparency, innovation, and execution. Since inception, our co-founders have led with the vision of bringing unparalleled transparency and efficiency to the online customer acquisition ecosystem, executed through a powerful technology-enabled platform. Transparency is built into our platform and is at the heart of our culture, enabling us to focus on sustainable long-term success over near-term wins. We are relentless about continuous innovation and aim to use our platform to solve big industry-wide problems. We are data-driven and focused on delivering measurable results for our partners. We believe that our long-term vision, dedication to solving systemic problems in the industry, and our relentless drive to improve, will continue to empower us to be the platform of choice for our partners. Our growth opportunities We intend to grow our business through the following key areas: Increase Transaction Value from our partners. We aim to increase overall Transaction Value from our partners across our insurance verticals by continuously improving the volume and accuracy of customer conversion data analyzed in our platform, eliminating friction between consumer handoffs, and developing additional tools and features to increase engagement. We believe that providing our platform participants with better value and a larger selection of high-quality Consumer Referrals over time will lead to increased spending on our platform. Improve ecosystem efficiency. We believe that traditional customer acquisition models are highly inefficient, charging platform users inflated prices while lacking the transparency and granularity to allow participants to reach end consumers effectively. We were founded to disrupt and address these systemic inefficiencies and will continue to do so by enhancing automated buying strategies and granular price discovery processes. We will continue to expand our platform and drive value for all participants within the ecosystem by increasing the number and depth of data integrations with our partners. Bring new partners to our platform. There are potential buyers and sellers who are not yet using our platform. We intend to gain adoption of our platform with new insurance partners through business development, word-of-mouth referrals, and inbound inquiries. Grow our product offerings. We are constantly exploring new ways to deliver value to our partners through development of new tools and services and improvement of our conversion analytics model. We believe that providing further customized solutions and higher touch services for our partners will enhance the stickiness of our offerings and drive more customer acquisition spend and users to our platform. Deepen our relationships with agents. We intend to strategically expand our insurance agency relationships to capture additional customer acquisition spend within our core insurance verticals. We have a dedicated team working to incorporate agents into our digital platform and help them expand their customer acquisition capabilities. We generated over 98 million Consumer Referrals in the year ended December 31, 2021, equipping us with valuable conversion insights to help us optimize consumer routing to agents based on their desired goals. This dedicated team will continue to enhance our agency capabilities. Expand into and scale new verticals. While we originally focused our efforts on growing our core P&C insurance vertical, we continue to seek expansion opportunities in markets that share similar characteristics. 15 Table of Contents For example, we entered the health insurance and life insurance markets in 2014 and were able to scale to $297.5 million and $217.7 million in Transaction Value for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing 36.6% and 38.5% year-over-year growth, respectively. We believe our vertical-agnostic platform and established playbook for entering new markets will allow us to capture attractive market opportunities effectively. Our competition We operate in the broadly defined tech-enabled insurance distribution sector. We are part of a sector that is disrupting the conventional agent-based insurance distribution channels. This sector is comprised of companies engaged in varied aspects of customer acquisition. On one end of the spectrum, there are companies that are engaged in simple Consumer Referrals acquisition. These Consumer Referrals are delivered to the insurance carriers or distributors. On the other end of the spectrum, there are companies that acquire the customer through digital channels and take them through the entire needs-based assessment and policy application and submission process. Within this sector, our closest competitors are technology companies engaged in digital customer acquisition. Traditional digital consumer acquisition models focus on serving buyers of Consumer Referrals by acquiring consumers on behalf of insurance carriers from paid search, proprietary websites or other digital avenues. Our model is different. We operate a transparent, results-driven platform where sophisticated demand and supply partners transact on high-quality Consumer Referrals. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including return on investment, technology, and client service. Our platform also offers DTC digital spend optimization capabilities that compete primarily with home grown systems that buyers use to aggregate multiple sources of digital customer acquisition. As the number of digital consumer acquisition sources grows, the complexity and cost of managing those sources continues to increase. As a result, we are seeing significant increases in the frequency and customer acquisition spend of participants on our platform, further enhancing our scale and return on investment to all our partners. We have deep integrations with our partners that cost time and money. We believe our growing scale makes it hard for new entrants to gain direct access to buyers and sellers and replicate what we have built over the years. Intellectual property The protection of our technology, intellectual property and proprietary rights is an important aspect of our business. We rely on a combination of trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, confidentiality agreements, and technical measures to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights and technology. Additionally, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into confidentiality agreements with third parties, including our buyers and sellers. However, our contractual provisions may not always be effective at preventing unauthorized parties from obtaining our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. Intellectual property laws, procedures, and restrictions provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property or proprietary rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect intellectual property or proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology. Our in-house know-how is an important element of our intellectual property. The development and management of our platform requires sophisticated coordination among many specialized employees. We believe that duplication of this coordination by competitors or individuals seeking to copy our platform would be difficult. The risk of a competitor effectively replicating the functionality of our platform is further mitigated by the fact that our service offerings are cloud-based, such that most of the core technology operating on our systems is never exposed to a user or to our competitors. To protect our technology, we implement multiple layers of security. Access to our platform, other than to obtain basic information, requires system usernames and passwords. We also add additional layers of security such as dual-factor authentication, encryption in transit and intrusion detection. See Risk factors-Risks related to our intellectual property rights and our technology. Seasonality Our results are subject to significant seasonal fluctuations as a result of vertical level seasonality. Our property & casualty insurance vertical is characterized by seasonal weakness during our fourth quarter due to lower customer acquisition budgets from buyers and lower supply of Consumer Referrals during the holiday period. During our first quarter, our P&C insurance vertical exhibits seasonal strength as customer acquisition budgets from our buyers and Consumer Referral volume from our sellers both increase to start the year. 16 Table of Contents Our health insurance vertical experiences seasonal strength during the fourth quarter due to a material increase in Consumer Referrals and a related increase in customer acquisition budgets in connection with the Medicare annual enrollment period, which typically runs from October 15 to December 7 each year, and the under-65 health insurance open enrollment period, which typically runs from November 1 through December 15 each year. However, during the year ended December 31, 2021, the under-65 health insurance open enrollment period was extended through January 15, 2022, transferring part of the advertising budget that generally would have been allocated to us in December to January. This trend generally reverses for our health insurance vertical for the rest of the year with the end of the annual and open enrollment periods. The seasonal strength results in a corresponding build-up of accounts receivable related to our health insurance vertical as of year-end with cash realized during the subsequent first quarter. Regulation Various aspects of our business are, may become, or may be viewed by regulators from time to time as subject, directly or indirectly, to U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations. We are subject to laws and regulations that apply to businesses in general, such as those relating to worker classification, employment, payments, worker confidentiality obligations, consumer protection and taxation. As an online business, we are also subject to laws and regulations governing the internet, such as those relating to intellectual property ownership and infringement, trade secrets, the distribution of electronic communications, search engines, consumer privacy. and internet tracking technologies, and could be affected by potential changes to laws and regulations that affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including with respect to net neutrality and taxation on the use of the internet or e-commerce transactions. Because we collect, process, store, share, disclose, transfer and use consumer information and other data and engage in marketing and advertising activities via the phone, email and text messages, we are also subject to laws and regulations that address privacy, data protection and collection, storing, sharing, use, disclosure, retention, security, protection transfer and other processing of personal information and other data, including the California Online Privacy Protection Act, the CCPA, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the CAN-SPAM Act, CASL, the TCPA, HIPPA, Section 5(c) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the GDPR, supplemented by national laws (such as, in the United Kingdom, the Data Protection Act 2018) and further implemented through binding guidance from the European Data Protection Board, and the EUs ePrivacy Directive, which is expected to be replaced by the EUs ePrivacy Regulation, which is still under development and will replace current national laws that implement the ePrivacy Directive. The burdens imposed by these and other laws and regulations that may be enacted, or new interpretation of existing laws and regulations, may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs in order to comply. We take a variety of technical and organizational security measures and other measures to protect our data, including data pertaining to our end consumers, employees and business partners. Despite measures we put in place, we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access to such data. A substantial majority of the insurance carriers using our platform are property & casualty insurance carriers, health insurance carriers or life insurance carriers. As a result, we are indirectly affected by laws and regulations relating to the insurance and healthcare industries, both of which are heavily regulated. In addition, during 2021 we became licensed to sell health insurance policies in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, which has subjected us to laws and regulations applicable to insurance brokers and to the authority of the insurance regulators in those jurisdictions. The laws and regulations applicable to these industries have changed significantly in recent years, and other changes may occur in the future. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and related regulatory reforms have materially changed the regulation of health insurance. While it is difficult to determine the impact of potential reforms on our future business, it is possible that such changes in industry regulation could affect our operations and/or demand for our platform. Because the laws and regulations governing the internet, privacy, data security, marketing, insurance and healthcare are constantly evolving and striving to keep pace with innovations in technology and media, it is possible that we may need to materially alter the way we conduct some parts of our business activities or be prohibited from conducting such activities altogether at some point in the future. See Risk factors-Risks related to laws and regulation. Employees We are committed to attracting and retaining the brightest and best talent, so investing in human capital is critical to our success. The employee traits we value include hands-on work no matter what the experience level, intellectual curiosity, open-mindedness, growth mindset, and deeply caring about the quality of work. As of December 31, 2021, we had 149 full-time employees. The human capital measures and objectives that we focus on in managing our business include employee safety, talent acquisition and retention, employee engagement, development and training, diversity and inclusion, and 17 Table of Contents compensation and pay equity. None of our employees are represented by a collective bargaining unit or are a party to a collective bargaining agreement. Employee Engagement and Development Our employee engagement efforts include our quarterly all-hands meetings and frequent executive communications, through which we aim to keep our employees well-informed and to maximize transparency. We believe in continual improvement and use employee feedback to drive and improve processes that support our customers and ensure a deep understanding of our employees needs. We conduct annual confidential employee surveys and believe that ongoing performance feedback encourages greater engagement in our business and improves individual performance. Each year, our employees participate in a 360-degree evaluation process to identify critical capabilities for development and establish new stretch goals. We seek to achieve our business objectives through a deep commitment to talent development. Our talent development efforts include quarterly goals, weekly lunch and learn events, individualized professional development plans, management training, internal workshops, quarterly guest speakers, and quarterly book clubs related to enhancing business skills. Objectives and Key Results are used to drive our business strategy. All our teams participate in an annual strategic planning process to identify objectives for business growth and innovation. Our teams and employees set goals three times per year to support the Companys annual objectives. Pay Equity Our employee compensation strategy supports three primary objectives: attract and retain the best team members, reflect and reinforce our most important values, and align team member interests with shareholder interests in building enduring value. We believe people should be paid for what they do and how they do it, regardless of their gender, race, or other personal characteristics. To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider factors such as an employees role and experience, the location of their job, and their performance, in making compensation decisions. We also regularly review our compensation practices, both in terms of our overall workforce and individual employees, to ensure our pay is fair and equitable. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion We remain committed to fostering, cultivating, and maintaining a culture of diversity and inclusion. Our philosophy and actions are built on the premise that as an employer and citizens of our communities, we can create opportunities for lasting change. We take a multi-tiered approach to our diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) practices. We continue to expand our recruiting efforts through employer partnerships and targeted events to diversify our candidate pipeline. Our employee benefits package is tailored to meet a variety of our employees needs, including a generous parental leave, open paid time-off, and a charitable giving program for employees to support causes and organizations that have special meaning to them. During COVID-19, we have offered employees the flexibility they need to balance their personal and work lives, and have provided resources and support in order to work as productively, independently, and innovatively as possible. Our core values speak to the importance of individuality, transparency, and challenging ourselves to actively learn and grow together. We will be offering discussion sessions and foundational DEI training to further promote awareness and acceptance. As we look ahead, we will continue to assess our company practices with the intent of creating sustainable programs over the long-term, recognizing the importance of prioritizing progress over perfection. COVID-19 and Employee Safety During the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary focus has been on the safety and well-being of our employees and their families. Our pandemic efforts include leveraging the advice and recommendations of public health and occupational health experts to establish proper safety standards and ensuring that we provide appropriate personal protective equipment to our employees. During the pandemic, substantially all of our employees have continued to work remotely to ensure their safety. To cover the costs and help ease the stress of working from home, we provide our employees with benefits such as internet reimbursement, office supply purchasing, flexible work schedules, reimbursement for the purchase of ergonomic home office products and access to other tools. Available Information We file with the SEC Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities 18 Table of Contents Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Our internet website address is https://mediaalpha.com/ . We make available on our internet website, free of charge, our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks related to our business and industry Our business is dependent on our relationships with our partners using our platform, many of which have no long-term contractual commitments with us. If demand partners stop purchasing Consumer Referrals on our platform, if supply partners stop making Consumer Referrals available on our platform, or if we are unable to establish and maintain new relationships with demand or supply partners on our platform, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. A substantial majority of our revenue is derived from sales of Consumer Referrals to demand partners on our platform. Our relationships with such demand partners are dependent on our ability to make quality Consumer Referrals available on our platform at attractive volumes and prices, which in turn depends on our relationship with our supply partners. If demand partners are not able to acquire their preferred Consumer Referrals on our platform, they may stop purchasing on our platform. If demand partners are not able to reach desired consumer segments precisely or do not maximize return on customer acquisition spend, they may stop using our platform. Supply partners use our platform to optimize consumer conversions and the yield on their traffic. If supply partners are not able to obtain the best yield on their traffic using our platform, they may stop using our platform to make their Consumer Referrals available. The majority of our partners can stop using our platform at any time with no notice. Many of our agreements with our partners have no fixed term and are cancellable upon 30 or 60 days notice. Furthermore, the agreements with our partners do not require that such partners transact a minimum amount on our platform. As a result, we cannot guarantee that our partners will continue to work with us, or, if they do, the amount of Consumer Referrals demand partners will purchase or the amount of Consumer Referrals supply partners will make available on our platform. If a partner is not satisfied with our platform, it could cause us to lose our relationship with them. In addition to a loss of revenue, this may produce publicity that could hurt our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain business or secure new business with other partners. The success of our platform depends on both our supply partners making available a robust supply of Consumer Referrals and our demand partners willingness to pay to purchase such Consumer Referrals. Accordingly, the loss of a supply partners traffic could affect our ability to provide a sufficient supply of Consumer Referrals for demand partners to acquire. In turn, the loss of a demand partners purchasing power on our platform could decrease the payouts to supply partners, which could decrease our supply of Consumer Referrals. We may decide to terminate our relationship with a partner for a number of reasons and at any time. For example, in October 2020, we terminated our relationship with a supply partner that represented approximately 2% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. The termination of our relationship with a partner could reduce the number of demand partners seeking to purchase Consumer Referrals and supply partners seeking to sell their Consumer Referrals to our platform. In connection with such a termination, we would lose a source of Transaction Value and fees for future sales. Our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could also be harmed if in the future we fail to develop new partner relationships. We depend on a small group of demand and supply partners for a substantial portion of our business. Changes in our relationships with these partners may adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We derive a large portion of our revenue from our demand partners through their purchases of Consumer Referrals provided by our supply partners. A limited number of our demand and supply partners account for a substantial portion of our business. Our largest demand partner represented 16% and 23% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 19 Table of Contents 2020, respectively, and our next largest demand partner represented 11% and 8% of revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The majority of our agreements with our demand and supply partners do not include minimum transaction volume commitments, and accordingly, our supply partners can reduce or cease the volume of Consumer Referrals they provide to our platform, and/or our demand partners can reduce or cease their purchasing on our platform at any time. In addition, many of our agreements with our demand and supply partners are terminable by the partner without cause upon 30 or 60 days notice. Should we become dependent on fewer demand or supply partner relationships (whether as a result of the termination of existing relationships, insurance carrier consolidation or otherwise), we may become more vulnerable to adverse changes in our relationships with our demand or supply partners, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our business is substantially dependent on revenue from property & casualty insurance, health insurance, and life insurance carriers and subject to business cycles and risks related to such industries in which our partners operate. We derive a substantial majority of our revenue from sales of Consumer Referrals to property & casualty insurance carriers, health insurance carriers, and life insurance carriers. Revenue from our insurance verticals accounted for 96.5% and 97.1% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. If insurance carriers experience large or unexpected losses through the offering of insurance, these carriers may choose to decrease the amount of money they spend on customer acquisition, including with us. These insurance markets, most notably the automobile insurance industry, have historically been cyclical in nature. These cycles are often characterized by periods of soft market conditions, when carriers loss ratios are relatively low and they tend to focus on investing to acquire customers and build market share, and hard market conditions, when their loss ratios are relatively high and they tend to prioritize profitability over growth and reduce their customer acquisition spending until they can obtain regulatory approval to raise premiums. As our insurance carrier partners go through these market cycles, our demand partners may increase or decrease their spending on Customer Referrals on our platform. These changes in spending may occur rapidly and without warning, and the duration of these market cycles can be difficult to predict accurately. Reductions in spending can have a material adverse impact on our operating results, causing them to fall short of the expectations of investors and securities analysts. For example, in the third quarter of 2021, many automobile insurers reduced their customer acquisition spending sharply in response to higher-than-expected loss ratios resulting from higher accident severity and increased repair costs due to global supply chain issues. These reductions have materially and adversely affected our operating results, and the duration of this hard market cycle is difficult to predict accurately. We will likely experience similar insurance industry cycles in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. In addition, we are dependent upon general economic conditions in the automobile, home, and healthcare industries. Decreases in consumer demand generally in such underlying industries could adversely affect the demand for property & casualty insurance, health insurance, and life insurance and, in turn, the number of Consumer Referrals available on our platform. In addition, consumer spending on automobile, home, and healthcare products generally declines during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected and may be affected by negative trends in the broader economy, including the cost of energy and gasoline, the availability and cost of credit, reductions in business and consumer confidence, stock market volatility and increased unemployment. Downturns in any of these underlying industries, which could be caused by a downturn in the economy at large, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our partners may negotiate with us to reduce our platform fees or switch certain transactions from open marketplace to private marketplace, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Many of the terms of our agreements with our partners, including our platform fees, are specifically negotiated with each partner. Our partners may negotiate with us to reduce our platform fees. The outcome of such negotiations could result in terms that are less favorable to us than those contained in our existing agreements or those obtained by our competitors, which could impact our relationship with our partners and could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. In addition, the net revenue generated from transactions in our open marketplace is higher than the net revenue from transactions in our private marketplaces. In the past, certain of our supply and demand partners have switched their transactions with each other from our open marketplace to a private marketplace once they have reached a significant level of Transaction Value, and this may occur with other supply and demand partners in the future. Such transitions may occur with minimal notice, and have a negative impact on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents The timing and volume of such price negotiations or open to private marketplace transitions could cause our operating results for a given period to fail to meet our expectations or those of any analysts that cover us or investors, which could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to fall substantially. Demand partners who access our platform can attract consumers directly through their own customer acquisition strategies, including third-party online platforms and other traditional methods of distribution, or obtain similar services from our competitors. Similarly, supply partners can seek to monetize high-intent consumers or maximize the value of non-converting consumers on their websites by building their own solutions or turning to other service providers, including our competitors. The majority of our demand partners do not have exclusive relationships with us, and they may choose to make systemic or incremental changes in the manner in which they market and distribute their products. They can attract consumers directly through their own customer acquisition strategies, including third-party online platforms and other traditional methods of distribution, such as referral arrangements, physical storefront operations or broker agreements. Such demand partners also may obtain Consumer Referrals through one or more online competitors of our business. If such demand partners determine to compete directly with us or choose to favor one or more third-party platforms, they could cease or reduce purchases of Consumer Referrals on our platform. In our insurance verticals, if consumers seek insurance policies directly from insurance carriers, or if insurance carrier partners seek Consumer Referrals through our competitors or cease providing us with access to their systems or information, the number of transactions by demand partners on our platform may decline, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Similarly, most of our supply partners do not have exclusive relationships with us, and they can seek other solutions to maximize their consumer traffic monetization, such as building their own solution or turning to other service providers, including our competitors, in order to monetize high-intent consumers or maximize the value of non-converting consumers on their websites. This could also lead to a reduction in the number of Consumer Referrals made available by supply partners on our platform and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. If we fail to compete effectively against technology companies engaged in digital customer acquisition and other competitors, we could lose partners and our revenue may decline. We operate in the broadly defined tech-enabled insurance distribution sector. Within this sector, our closest competitors are technology companies engaged in digital customer acquisition. This sector is intensely competitive, and we expect this competition to continue to increase in the future both from existing and new competitors that provide competing platforms or technology. We compete both for demand partners customer acquisition budgets and high-quality Consumer Referrals. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including return on investment, technology, and client service. Our principal competitors in this space include technology companies engaged in digital customer acquisition for insurance carriers, as well as other companies including: direct distribution companies focused on insurance products; industry-specific portals or customer acquisition companies with insurance-focused research online destinations; online marketing or media services providers; major internet portals and search engine companies with online advertising platforms; and supply partners with their own sales forces that sell their online Consumer Referrals directly to buyers. Finding, developing, and retaining high quality Consumer Referrals on a cost-effective basis is challenging because competition for web traffic among technology companies engaged in digital customer acquisition, websites, and search engines, as well as competition with traditional media companies, has resulted and may continue to result in significant increases in pricing, declining margins, and reduction in revenue. In addition, if we expand the scope of our services and/or served markets, we may compete with a greater number of technology companies, websites, buyers, and traditional media companies across an increasing range of different services, including in vertical markets where competitors may have advantages in expertise, brand recognition, and other areas. Internet search companies with brand recognition have significant numbers of direct sales personnel and web traffic that provide a significant competitive advantage and have a significant impact on pricing for Consumer Referrals or web traffic. Some of these companies may offer or develop more vertically targeted products that match consumers with products and services or match Consumer Referrals with buyers and, thus, compete with us more directly. The trend toward consolidation in online marketing may also affect pricing and availability of Consumer Referral inventory. Many of our current and potential competitors also have other competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, 21 Table of Contents greater brand recognition, larger client bases, greater access to Consumer Referrals or web traffic more generally, and significantly greater financial, technical, and marketing resources. As a result, we may not be able to compete successfully. Competition from the DTC distribution channel may affect both volume and price, and, thus, revenue, profit margins, and profitability. If we fail to deliver results that are superior to those that other technology companies engaged in digital customer acquisition deliver to partners, we could lose partners and market share, and our revenue may decline. If we are unable to develop new offerings, achieve increased partner adoption of those offerings or penetrate new vertical markets, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our continued improvement of our product and service offerings is critical to our continued growth. Accordingly, we must continually invest resources in product, technology, and development in order to improve the comprehensiveness and effectiveness of our platform, including by improving upon and expanding the tools we offer to our partners for customer acquisition cost management and optimization. In addition, while we have historically concentrated our efforts on the property & casualty insurance, health insurance, and life insurance markets, we may in the future seek to opportunistically penetrate other vertical markets, such as consumer finance, education, and home services. In order to penetrate new vertical markets successfully, it will be necessary to develop an understanding of those new markets and the associated risks, which may require substantial investments of time and resources, and even then we may not be successful. In such event, our revenue may grow at a slower rate than we anticipate and our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to manage future growth effectively, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced rapid growth in recent years. and anticipate further growth in the future. This growth has placed significant demands on management and our operational infrastructure. As we continue to grow, we must continue to maintain and enhance our platform and information technology infrastructure, as well as our financial and accounting systems and controls. We must also continue to attract, train and retain a significant number of qualified information technology and other personnel, and to effectively integrate, develop, and motivate our employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our company culture. If we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and efficiency of our operations could suffer and we may not be able to execute on our business plan, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our past growth or the past growth in our verticals or by our competitors may not be indicative of future growth, and our revenue growth rate may decline in the future. Our past growth or the past growth in our verticals or by our competitors may not be indicative of future growth, if any. We will not be able to grow as expected, or at all, if we do not accomplish the following: maintain and expand the number of demand and supply partners that use our platform; increase the volume and quality of Consumer Referrals available on our platform and otherwise improve the value of our platform to our partners; further improve the quality of our platform; and expand our presence to new verticals. Our revenue growth rates may also be limited if we are unable to achieve high market penetration rates as we experience increased competition. If our revenue or revenue growth rates decline, investors perceptions of our business may be adversely affected and the market price of our Class A common stock could decline. If we are unable to attract, integrate, and retain qualified employees, our ability to develop and successfully grow our business could be harmed. Our business depends on our ability to retain our key executives and management, including Steven Yi, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder, and Eugene Nonko, Chief Technology Officer and Co-Founder, and to hire, develop, and retain other key employees. Our ability to expand our business depends on our being able to hire, train, and retain sufficient numbers of experienced information technology employees, as well as data analytics, product and account management, and 22 Table of Contents other personnel. Our success in recruiting highly skilled and qualified employees can depend on factors outside of our control, including the strength of the general economy and local employment markets and the availability of alternative forms of employment. Experienced information technology personnel, who are critical to the success of our business, are in particularly high demand. This demand is particularly acute in the Seattle, Washington area, where our technology and engineering team is based. Competition for their talents is intense, and retaining such individuals can be difficult. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan and strategy, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements on a timely basis, or at all. Most of our executive officers and other key employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationships with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating our existing employees, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. A reduction in DTC digital spend by our demand partners or lower conversion results may harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We have historically derived, and we expect to continue to derive, the majority of our revenue through sales of Consumer Referrals to our demand partners as part of their DTC digital marketing efforts. One component of our platform that we use to generate buyer interest is our system of optimization tools, which is designed to offer pricing control, transparency, granular targeting, and real-time response to assist our demand partners in making buying decisions that optimize their customer acquisition spend. Demand partners may reduce or stop their spending on our platform if their investments do not result in a sufficient level of conversion to policy sales and revenue. The failure of our platform to effectively deliver Consumer Referrals in a manner that results in profitable customer acquisition for our demand partners could have an adverse impact on our ability to maintain or increase our revenue from our demand partners DTC digital spend. We depend on supply partners for a majority of the Consumer Referrals sold in our marketplaces. Any decline in the supply of Consumer Referrals available from these supply partners could cause our revenue to decline or our operating costs to increase. A majority of the Consumer Referrals available on our platform is attributable to consumer traffic originating from supply partners on our platform. In many instances, supply partners can change the Consumer Referrals they make available on our platform at any time in ways that could impact our results of operations. If a supply partner decides not to make its Consumer Referrals available to us, decides to demand a higher revenue share or places significant restrictions on the sale of such Consumer Referrals, we may not be able to find replacement Consumer Referrals from other supply partners that satisfy the requirements of our demand partners in a timely and cost-effective manner. Consolidation of sellers could eventually lead to a concentration of desirable inventory on websites or networks owned by a small number of individuals or entities, which could limit the supply or impact the pricing of inventory available to us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to acquire Consumer Referrals that meet our partners performance, price, and quality requirements, in which case our revenue could decline or our operating costs could increase. We may acquire other companies or technologies, which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our operating results, financial condition, and prospects. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to acquire businesses or technologies that we believe could complement, expand or enhance the features and functionality of our platform and our technical capabilities, broaden our service offerings or offer growth opportunities. For example, on February 24, 2022 we announced that we had signed an agreement to acquire substantially all of the assets of a company engaged in lead generation through social media and short form video channels. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and may divert the attention of management away from operating our business and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are consummated. Acquisitions also could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, impairment of goodwill and/or purchased long-lived assets, and restructuring charges, any of which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. In addition, we may face risks or experience difficulties in: effectively managing the combined business following the acquisition; implementing operations, technologies, controls, procedures, and/or policies at the acquired company; 23 Table of Contents integrating the acquired companys accounting, human resource, and other administrative systems, and coordination of product, engineering, and sales and marketing functions; transitioning operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; obtaining any required approvals on a timely basis, if at all, from governmental authorities, or conditions placed upon approval that could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or other strategic transaction; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization, and retention of employees from the businesses we acquire; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, privacy issues, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquisition of the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders, or other third parties. Depending on the condition of any company or technology we may acquire, that acquisition may, at least in the near term, adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects and, if not successfully integrated with our organization, may continue to have such effects over a longer period. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisitions and we may not be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions. Our inability to overcome these risks could have an adverse effect on our profitability, return on equity, and return on assets, and our ability to implement our business strategy and enhance stockholder value, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We rely on data provided to us by our demand partners, our supply partners, and consumers to improve our technology and service offerings, and if we are unable to maintain or increase the amount of such data available to us, we may be unable to provide our demand partners with a bidding experience that is relevant, efficient, and effective or our supply partners with satisfactory revenue yields, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our business relies on the data provided to us by our demand partners, our supply partners, and consumers. The large amount of information we use in operating our platform is critical to the optimal functioning of our platform. If we are unable to maintain or effectively utilize the data provided to us, including data from our demand partners regarding consumer conversion, the value that we provide to our partners may be limited. In addition, the quality, accuracy, and timeliness of this information may suffer, which may lead to a negative bidding experience for demand partners using our platform, or decreased yields for supply partners using our platform, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We have made substantial investments, including time and human resources, in the development of our proprietary technology platform, which relies on consumer-provided data, third-party data, predictive modeling, and analytics engines to maximize value for our platform users. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to collect and retain sufficient data, or to improve our data technologies, to satisfy our operating needs and the needs of our partners. Failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. In addition, to the extent consumers or third parties provide our suppliers websites or our proprietary websites with inaccurate information or fail to provide information, the quality of Consumer Referrals offered to our demand partners through our platform may suffer. A decrease in quality of Consumer Referrals could lead to a reduction in use of our platform by our demand partners. We depend upon internet search companies to direct a significant portion of visitors to our suppliers websites and our proprietary websites. Changes in search engine algorithms have in the past harmed and may in the future harm the websites placements in both paid and organic search result listings, which may reduce the number of visitors to our supply partners websites and our proprietary websites and as a result, cause our revenue to decline. Our success depends on the ability to attract online visitors to our suppliers websites and our proprietary websites and convert them into Consumer Referrals for our partners in a cost-effective manner. We depend on internet search companies to 24 Table of Contents direct a substantial share of visitors to our suppliers websites and our proprietary websites. Search companies offer two types of search results: organic and paid listings. Organic listings are displayed based solely on formulas designed by the search companies. Paid listings are displayed based on a combination of the buyers bid price for particular keywords and the search engines assessment of the websites relevance and quality. If one or more of the search engines or other online sources on which we or our suppliers rely for purchased listings modifies or terminates its relationship with us or decides to decrease its rating of the relevance and quality of our suppliers or our proprietary websites, our expenses could rise, we could lose consumers, and traffic to our suppliers websites and our proprietary websites could decrease, which could in turn decrease the amount and quality of Consumer Referrals made available for sale on our platform. Any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. The ability to maintain or grow the number of visitors to our suppliers websites and our proprietary websites from search companies is not entirely within our control. Search companies frequently revise their algorithms and changes in their algorithms have in the past caused or could in the future cause our suppliers websites and our proprietary websites to receive less favorable placements. There have been fluctuations in organic rankings for a number of our suppliers websites and some of the paid listing campaigns have also been harmed by search engine algorithmic changes. Changes in search engine advertising policies can affect placement in paid search result listings (or even our ability to participate in paid search result listing at all), reducing the number of visitors to our owned and operated and third-party publishers websites. For example, from time to time, Google changes its advertising policies, including a change announced in April 2021 related to health insurance advertising. Search companies could determine that the content of our suppliers websites or our proprietary websites is either not relevant or is of poor quality. In addition, we or our supply partners may fail to optimally manage our paid listings, or our proprietary bid management technologies may fail, which may lead to a decrease in the number of visits to our supply partners websites or our proprietary websites. As a result, we may need to use more costly sources to replace lost visitors who could have contributed to our supply of Consumer Referrals, and such increased expense could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Even if we and our suppliers succeed in driving traffic to our respective websites, we may not be able to effectively monetize this traffic or otherwise retain users. Failure to do so could result in a smaller supply of Consumer Referrals available on our platform to our demand partners and thus lower revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and other unforeseen and broad-based pandemics or public health crises, could disrupt our operations and have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our business may be adversely impacted by the effects of COVID-19. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including supply chain constraints, labor shortages, and inflation, may cause our partners to be cautious in their spending. While the economy is reopening in various parts of the world, some countries and locations are reinstating lockdowns and other restrictions that make a full recovery difficult to predict. We continue to monitor the evolving situation and guidance from international and domestic authorities, including federal, state and local public health authorities, and there may be developments outside our control requiring us to adjust our operating plan. The businesses of our partners have been negatively affected and may continue to be disrupted by reduced demand, declines in consumer credit, increased default rates, absenteeism, quarantines, and restrictions on employees ability to work, office closures, and travel or health-related restrictions. For example, in our travel vertical, COVID-19 has led to a dramatic decline in consumers shopping for travel-related products, and there is uncertainty about the timing and extent to which demand for travel-related products will return to pre-pandemic levels. As a result, we have experienced a significant decline in revenue from the travel vertical and expect this trend to continue in the foreseeable future. Certain insurance companies have seen new applications for their various insurance products decrease (e.g., declines in new applications for auto insurance due to lower car sales). Additionally, health insurance and life insurance carriers have faced a significant number of claims related to COVID-19. Depending on the magnitude and duration of any disruptions effect on demand partners customer acquisition spending and/or the availability of quality Consumer Referrals from our supply partners, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be adversely affected. In addition, COVID-19 or other disease outbreaks will in the short-run, and may over the longer term, adversely affect the economies and financial markets within many countries, including in the United States, resulting in an economic downturn that could negatively affect customer acquisition spend by our demand partners or on consumer insurance product search activity (and, in turn, Consumer Referral availability). Such effects of COVID-19, and other similar effects, could result in reduced customer acquisition spend or drops in Consumer Referral availability, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. There can be no assurance that any decrease in revenue or margin resulting from COVID-19 will be offset by increased revenue or margin in subsequent periods or that our 25 Table of Contents business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects will remain consistent with current or pre-pandemic expectations and/or performances. We have taken precautionary measures intended to minimize the risk of the spread of the virus to our employees, partners and clients, and the communities in which we operate. A wide range of governmental restrictions has also been imposed on our employees, and partners physical movement to limit the spread of COVID-19. There can be no assurance that precautionary measures, whether adopted by us or imposed by others, will be effective, and such measures could negatively affect our sales, marketing, and client service efforts, delay and lengthen our sales cycles, decrease our employees, clients, or partners productivity, or create operational or other challenges, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, economic downturns or other unexpected events. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, hurricane, tornado, flood or significant power outage, could disrupt our operations, platform, the internet or the operations of our third-party technology providers. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in Los Angeles, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, any unforeseen public health crises, political crises, terrorist attacks, war, political instability, or other catastrophic events, whether in the United States or abroad, could adversely affect our operations or the economy as a whole. The impact of any natural disaster, act of terrorism or other disruption to us or our third-party providers abilities could result in decreased demand for our offerings or a delay in the provision of our offerings, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. If the market for digital customer acquisition services fails to continue to develop, our success may be limited, and our revenue may decrease. The digital customer acquisition services market is relatively new and rapidly evolving, and it uses different measurements than traditional media to gauge its effectiveness. Some of our current or potential partners have little or no experience using the internet for customer acquisition purposes and have allocated only limited portions of their customer acquisition budgets to the internet. The adoption of digital customer acquisition, particularly by those companies that have historically relied upon traditional media for customer acquisition, requires the acceptance of a new way of conducting business, exchanging information, and evaluating new customer acquisition technologies and services. In addition, we may experience resistance from traditional advertising agencies that may be advising our partners. We cannot assure you that the market for digital customer acquisition services will continue to grow. If the market for digital customer acquisition services fails to continue to develop or develops more slowly than we anticipate, the success of our business may be limited, and our revenue may stop growing or decrease. If we fail to protect our brand, our ability to expand the use of our platform by buyers and sellers may be adversely affected. Maintaining strong brand recognition and a reputation for delivering value to our partners is important to our business. A failure by us to protect our brand and deliver on these expectations could harm our reputation and damage our ability to attract and retain partners, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Furthermore, a failure to protect our trademarks and domain names could adversely affect our brand and make it more difficult for users to find our platform. In addition, our competitors may have more resources than we do and may spend more advertising their brands and services. Accordingly, we could be forced to incur greater expense marketing our brand in the future to preserve our position in the market and, even with such greater expense, may not be successful in doing so. Furthermore, complaints or negative publicity about our business practices, legal compliance, marketing and advertising campaigns, data privacy and security issues, and other aspects of our business, whether valid or not, could damage our reputation and brand. If we are unable to maintain or enhance client awareness of our brand cost-effectively, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our existing and any future indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. On July 29, 2021, QuoteLab, LLC entered into the First Amendment to the 2020 Credit Agreement (Amended Credit Agreement), which provides for the 2021 Term Loan Facility and the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility (collectively 2021 Credit Facilities). Proceeds from the 2021 Term Loan Facility were used to refinance all of the $186.4 million of principal amount outstanding under the existing 2020 Term Loan Facility and the unpaid interest thereon, to pay fees related to the 26 Table of Contents refinancing transactions, and to provide cash for general corporate purposes. The 2021 Revolving Credit Facility is available for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2021, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under the 2021 Term Loan Facility was $190.0 million and our borrowing capacity under the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility was $50.0 million. In addition, we may in the future decide to incur additional indebtedness. Our existing or future indebtedness could have important consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic, industry, and market conditions; subjecting us to restrictive covenants, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends and requiring the pledge of substantially all of our assets as collateral, that may reduce our ability to take certain corporate actions or obtain further debt or equity financing; limiting our ability to plan for and respond to business opportunities or changes in our business or industry; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or better debt servicing options. In addition, our indebtedness under the 2021 Credit Facilities bears interest at a variable rate, making us vulnerable to increases in the market rate of interest. If the market rate of interest increases substantially, we will have to pay additional interest on this indebtedness, which would reduce cash available for our other business needs. We may not have sufficient funds, and may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, to pay the amounts due under our existing debt instruments. Failure to make payments or comply with other covenants under our existing or future debt instruments could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs and the lender accelerates the amounts due, we may need to seek additional financing, which may not be available on acceptable terms, in a timely manner or at all. In such event, we may not be able to make accelerated payments, and the lender could seek to enforce security interests, if any, in the collateral securing such indebtedness, which includes or could include substantially all of our assets. In addition, the covenants and other terms of our existing or future debt instruments could interfere with our execution of our growth strategy and limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. If we are unable to collect our receivables from our partners, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be adversely affected. We expect to obtain payment from our partners for work performed and maintain an allowance against receivables for potential losses on partner accounts. Actual losses on partner receivables could differ from those that we have historically experienced or currently anticipate and, as a result, we may need to adjust our allowances. We may not accurately assess the creditworthiness of our partners. Macroeconomic conditions, such as any evolving industry standards, changing regulatory conditions, changing consumer and partner demands, and the effects of COVID-19, could also result in financial difficulties for our partners, including insolvency or bankruptcy. As a result, this could cause partners to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could extend the timing of cash receipts, or default on their payment obligations to us. If we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be adversely affected. Developments with respect to London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) may affect our borrowing costs under our credit facilities. LIBOR is an interest rate benchmark used as a reference rate for a wide range of financial transactions, including derivatives and loans. Borrowings under our 2021 Credit Facilities bear interest at a variable rate, based primarily on LIBOR. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority announced that it that it will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. In March 2021, relevant regulators confirmed that the publication of the one-week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR would cease after December 31, 2021, and all remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR tenors would cease after June 30, 2023. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee (ARRC) has identified the 27 Table of Contents Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) as the recommended alternative for use in financial and other derivatives contracts that are currently indexed to United States dollar LIBOR. The Amended Credit Agreement provides that interest may be based on LIBOR and contains provisions for the establishment of a replacement rate to LIBOR in the event LIBOR is phased out; however, uncertainty remains as to any such replacement rate and any such replacement rate may be higher or lower than LIBOR may have been. The establishment of a replacement rate may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs under the 2021 Credit Facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Operating and growing our business may require additional capital, and if capital is not available to us, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects may suffer. Operating and growing our business is expected to require further investments in our technology and operations. We may be presented with opportunities that we want to pursue, and unforeseen challenges may present themselves, any of which could cause us to require additional capital beyond our internally generated cash flows. At any given time, if our cash needs exceed our expectations or we experience rapid growth, we could experience strain in our cash flow, which could adversely affect our operations in the event we were unable to obtain other sources of liquidity. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve debt service obligations and restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances could be significantly limited, and our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our future profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the United States, various state and local jurisdictions and foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate and profitability could be subject to volatility or adversely affected by a number of factors, including: changes in applicable tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect; changes in accounting and tax standards or practice; changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; and our operating results before taxes. In addition, we may be subject to audits of our income, sales, and other taxes by U.S. federal, state and local taxing authorities, and foreign authorities. Outcomes from these audits could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We may from time to time be subject to litigation, which may be extremely costly to defend, could result in substantial judgment or settlement costs or subject us to other remedies. We are currently not a party to any material legal proceedings. However, we have in the past and may from time to time in the future may be involved in various legal proceedings, including, but not limited to, actions relating to claims of violations of laws or regulations. breach of contract, and intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other violation. Claims may be expensive to defend, may divert managements time away from our operations, and may affect the availability and premiums of our liability insurance coverage, regardless of whether they are meritorious or ultimately lead to a judgment against us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully defend or resolve any current or future litigation matters, in which case those litigation matters could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Sellers, vendors, or their respective affiliates may engage in unauthorized or unlawful acts that could subject us to significant liability or cause us to lose demand partners and revenue. We generate a majority of our Consumer Referrals from online media that we source directly from our supply partners websites, as well as indirectly from the affiliates of our supply partners. We also rely on third-party call centers and 28 Table of Contents email marketers. Some of these third parties, vendors, and their respective affiliates are authorized to use our demand partners brands, subject to contractual restrictions. Any activity by suppliers, vendors, or their respective affiliates which violates the marketing guidelines of our demand partners or that our demand partners view as potentially damaging to their brands, whether or not permitted by our contracts with our demand partners, could harm our relationships and cause demand partners to terminate their relationship with us, resulting in a loss of revenue. Moreover, because we do not have a direct contractual relationship with the affiliates of our suppliers, we may not be able to monitor the compliance activity of such affiliates. If we are unable to cause our suppliers to monitor and enforce our demand partners contractual restrictions on such affiliates, our demand partners may terminate their relationships with us or decrease their customer acquisition budgets with us. In addition, we may also face liability for any failure of our suppliers, vendors or their respective affiliates to comply with regulatory requirements. The law is unsettled on the extent of liability that an advertiser has for the activities of sellers or vendors. Insurance regulations may impose liability on us and our demand partners for misrepresentations made by their marketing service providers. In addition, certain of our contracts impose liability on us, including indemnification obligations, for the acts of our sellers or vendors. We could be subject to costly litigation and, if we are unsuccessful in defending ourselves or in obtaining indemnity from our vendors, we could incur damages for the unauthorized or unlawful acts of sellers or vendors. Risks related to our intellectual property rights and our technology If we are unable to adequately obtain, maintain, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, proprietary systems, technology and brand, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our ability to compete effectively depends upon our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights, proprietary systems, technology and brand. We rely on a combination of trade secret, trademark and copyright law, confidentiality agreements, and technical measures to establish, maintain and protect our intellectual property rights and technology. These laws are subject to change at any time and could further limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Additionally, there is uncertainty concerning the scope of patent and other intellectual property protection for software and business methods, which are fields in which we rely on intellectual property laws to protect our rights. Despite our efforts to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights, these efforts may not be sufficient to effectively prevent unauthorized disclosure or unauthorized use of our trade secrets or other confidential information or to prevent third parties from infringing, misappropriating, diluting or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights and offering similar or superior functionality. To the extent we are able to obtain enforceable intellectual property rights, such intellectual property rights may not prevent third parties from reverse engineering our proprietary information or independently developing product and service technology offerings and services similar to or duplicative of our product and service offerings. For example, monitoring and protecting our intellectual property rights can be challenging and costly and we may not be effective in policing or prosecuting such unauthorized use or disclosure. We also may fail to maintain or be unable to obtain adequate protections for certain of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or certain foreign countries, and our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S. because of the differences in foreign patent, trademark, copyright, and other laws concerning proprietary rights. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated or held unenforceable through administrative process or litigation in the U.S. or in foreign jurisdictions. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. In addition, our competitors may attempt to copy unprotected aspects of our product design or independently develop similar technology or design around our intellectual property rights. Third parties also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or our reputation or cause partner confusion through the use of similar service names or domain names. Litigation regarding any intellectual property disputes may be costly and disruptive to us. Any of these results would harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Additionally, we rely, in part, on trade secrets, proprietary know-how, and other confidential information to maintain our competitive position. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and enter into confidentiality agreements with third parties, including our partners. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets. Moreover, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, distribution, use, misuse, misappropriation, reverse engineering or disclosure of our proprietary information, know-how and trade secrets. Further, these agreements may not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and platform capabilities. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret or know-how is difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, trade secrets and know-how can be 29 Table of Contents difficult to protect and some courts inside and outside the U.S. are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets and know-how. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, our competitive position would be materially and adversely harmed. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including mediaalpha.com, quotelab.com, and healthplans.com. Failure to maintain our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for current and future partners to find our website and our platform. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We may become subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and commercialize our products and services without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may not be aware that our products or services are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights and such third parties may bring claims alleging such infringement, misappropriation or violation. Third parties may be able to successfully challenge, oppose, invalidate, render unenforceable, dilute, misappropriate or circumvent our trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights. Additionally, companies in the internet, technology, and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition and become increasingly high profile, the possibility of receiving a larger number of intellectual property claims against us grows. In addition, various non-practicing entities, and other intellectual property rights holders may in the future attempt to assert intellectual property claims against us or seek to monetize the intellectual property rights they own to extract value through licensing or other settlements. Any claim of infringement or other proceeding involving our intellectual property rights by a third party, even those without merit, against us or for which we are required to provide indemnification could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, could distract our management from our business, and could require us to cease use of such intellectual property. Further, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, we risk compromising our confidential information during this type of litigation. We may be required to make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement fees, damages, royalties, or other fees in connection with a claimant securing a judgment against us. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from accessing such third partys intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our products and platform capabilities or cease business activities related to such intellectual property. We may be required to spend significant resources in order to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and some violations may be difficult or impossible to detect. Actions we may take to enforce our intellectual property rights may be expensive and divert managements attention away from the ordinary operation of our business and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, and, if such defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits are successful, we could lose valuable intellectual property rights. Our inability to secure and protect our intellectual property rights could impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of enhancements to our platform, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our platform, or harm our reputation and brand, and could materially and adversely affect our brand and business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Furthermore, such enforcement actions, even if successful, may not result in an adequate remedy. In addition, many companies have the capability to dedicate greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We cannot predict the outcome of lawsuits and cannot ensure that the results of any such actions will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Such claims could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights. Further, we might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on favorable or commercially reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. Some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If a third party does not offer us a license to its intellectual property on commercially reasonable 30 Table of Contents terms, or at all, we could be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant time, effort and expense, and may ultimately not be successful. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our services, which could affect our ability to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our business depends on our ability to maintain and improve the technological infrastructure that supports our platform, and any significant disruption in service on our platform could result in a loss of partners, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our ability to service partners depends on the reliable performance of our technological infrastructure, including the cloud computing platforms we use. Interruptions, delays or failures in these systems, whether due to our cloud computing and other vendors, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, power loss, computer viruses, cybersecurity attacks, physical break-ins, terrorism, errors in our software or otherwise, could be prolonged and could affect the security or availability of our platform. Our systems or those of third parties may also contain undetected errors or other performance problems or may fail due to human error. The reliability and security of our systems, and those of our partners and vendors, is important not only to maintaining our platform, but also to maintaining our reputation and ensuring the proper protection of our confidential and proprietary information. If we experience operational failures or prolonged disruptions or delays in the availability of our systems, we could lose current and potential partners, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Any errors, defects, or disruptions in our platform, or other performance problems with our platform could harm our brand and may damage the businesses of our partners. Our online systems, including our platform, could contain undetected errors, or bugs, that could adversely affect their performance. Additionally, we update our platform and our other online systems. These updates may contain undetected errors when first introduced or released, which may cause disruptions in our services and may, as a result, cause us to lose current and potential partners, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We rely on third-party service providers for many aspects of our business, including the hosting of our platform, and any disruption of service experienced by such third-party service provider or our failure to manage and maintain existing relationships or identify other high-quality, third-party service providers could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Information technology systems form a key part of our business and accordingly we are dependent on our relationships with third-party service providers that provide the infrastructure for our platform and technological systems, including our cloud vendors and data center providers. If these third parties experience difficulty providing the services we require or meeting our standards for those services, or experience disruptions or financial distress or cease operations temporarily or permanently, it could make it difficult for us to operate some aspects of our business. In addition, such events could cause us to experience increased costs and delay our ability to provide services to partners until we have found alternative sources of the services provided by these third parties. If we are unsuccessful in identifying or finding high-quality, third-party service providers, if we fail to negotiate cost-effective relationships with them or if we are ineffective in managing and maintaining these relationships, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We rely on Amazon Web Services to deliver our platform to our partners, and any disruption of, or interference with, our use of Amazon Web Services could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Amazon Web Services (AWS) is a third-party provider of cloud infrastructure services. We rely on AWS for the cloud computing infrastructure we use to host our platform and website, serve our users and support our operations and many of the internal tools we use to operate our business, including compute, storage, data transfer, and other functions and services. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of AWS that we use. AWS facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, cybersecurity attacks, terrorist attacks, power losses, telecommunications failures, and other events beyond our control. We have from time to time experienced service outages in AWS systems and services. In the event that AWS systems or service abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, our ability to operate our platform may be impaired, which could result in us missing financial targets for a particular period. A decision to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated problems, could result in lengthy interruptions to our platform. All of the aforementioned risks may be exacerbated if our or AWS business continuity and disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. 31 Table of Contents Additionally, AWS may experience threats or attacks from computer malware, ransomware, viruses, social engineering (including phishing attacks), denial of service or other attacks, employee theft or misuse, and general hacking, which have become more prevalent in our industry. Any of these security incidents could result in unauthorized access to, damage to, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of, disclosure of, modification of, destruction of, or loss of our data or our partners data or disrupt our ability to provide our platform or service. Our platforms continuing and uninterrupted performance is critical to our success. Users may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our platform to them. We may not be able to easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud or other data center provider if there are disruptions or interference with our use of AWS, and, even if we do switch our operations, other cloud and data center providers are subject to the same risks. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our platform to our partners, thereby reducing revenue. Moreover, negative publicity arising from these types of disruptions could damage our reputation and may adversely impact the use of our platform. We may not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur as a result of any events that cause interruptions in our service. AWS does not have an obligation to renew its agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Although alternative data center providers could host our platform on a substantially similar basis to AWS, transitioning the cloud infrastructure currently hosted by AWS to alternative providers could potentially be disruptive and we could incur significant one-time costs. If we are unable to renew our agreement with AWS on commercially reasonable terms, our agreement with AWS is prematurely terminated, or we add additional infrastructure providers, we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to, or the addition of, new data center providers. If AWS or other infrastructure providers increase the costs of their services, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by a cybersecurity breach or other attack involving our computer systems or those of our partners or third-party service providers. Our systems and those of our partners and third-party service providers could be vulnerable to hardware and cybersecurity issues. Our operations are dependent upon our and our third-party service providers ability to protect our respective computer equipment and systems against telecommunications failure or a similar catastrophic event. Cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency and evolving in nature and include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, ransomware, viruses, phishing attacks, denial of service or other attacks, breach by intentional or negligent conduct on the part of employees or other internal sources, unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches. Concerns about security increase when we transmit information (including personal data) electronically. Electronic transmissions can be subject to attack, interception, loss or corruption. In addition, computer viruses and malware can be distributed and spread rapidly over the internet and could infiltrate our systems or those of our buyers, sellers, and third-party service providers. Infiltration of our systems or those of our partners and third-party service providers could in the future lead to disruptions in systems, accidental or unauthorized access to or disclosure, loss, destruction, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of or modification of confidential or otherwise protected information (including personal data) and the corruption of data. Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. In addition, our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect the computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us against damage from cybersecurity attacks by sophisticated third parties with substantial computing resources and capabilities and other disruptive problems caused by the internet or other users. Such disruptions would jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems and network infrastructure, which may result in significant liability and damage our reputation. We take efforts to protect our systems and data, including establishing internal processes and implementing technological measures designed to provide multiple layers of security, and contract with third-party service providers to take similar steps. However, it is difficult or impossible to defend against every risk being posed by changing technologies as well as criminals intent on committing cyber-crime, and these efforts may not be successful in preventing, detecting, or stopping attacks. The increasing sophistication and resources of cyber criminals and other non-state threat actors and increased actions by nation-state actors make keeping up with new threats difficult and could result in a breach of security. Controls employed by our information technology department and our partners and third-party service providers, including cloud vendors, could prove inadequate. A breach of our security that results in unauthorized access to our data could expose us to a disruption or challenges relating to our daily operations, as well as to data loss, litigation, damages, fines and penalties, significant increases in compliance costs and reputational damage, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. To the extent our systems rely on our partners or third-party service providers, through either a connection to, or an integration with, those third-parties systems, the risk of cybersecurity attacks and loss, corruption, or unauthorized publication 32 Table of Contents of our information or the confidential information of consumers and employees may increase. Third-party risks may include insufficient security measures, data location uncertainty, and the possibility of data storage in inappropriate jurisdictions where laws or security measures may be inadequate. Although we generally have agreements relating to cybersecurity and data privacy in place with our partners and third-party service providers, they are limited in nature and we cannot assure you that such agreements will prevent the accidental or unauthorized access to or disclosure, loss, destruction, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of or modification of data (including personal data) or enable us to obtain adequate or any reimbursement from our partners or third-party service providers in the event we should suffer any such incidents. Any or all of the issues above could adversely affect our ability to attract new partners and continue our relationship with existing partners, cause our partners to cancel their contracts with us or subject us to governmental or third-party lawsuits, investigations, regulatory fines or other actions or liability, thereby harming our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Any accidental or unauthorized access to or disclosure, loss, destruction, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of or modification of data, cybersecurity breach or other security incident that we or our partners could experience or the perception that one has occurred or may occur, could harm our reputation, reduce the demand for our products and services and disrupt normal business operations. In addition, it may require us to spend material resources to investigate or correct the breach and to prevent future security breaches and incidents, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny, expose us to legal liabilities, including litigation, regulatory enforcement, indemnity obligations or damages for contract breach, and cause us to incur significant costs, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Moreover, there could be public announcements regarding any such incidents and any steps we take to respond to or remediate such incidents, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these announcements to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. These risks may increase as we continue to grow and collect, process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of data. Although we are not aware of any material information security breaches to date, we have detected common types of attempts to attack our information systems and data. We collect, process, store, share, disclose, transfer, and use consumer information and other data, and an actual or perceived failure to protect such information and data or respect users privacy could damage our reputation and brand or negatively affect our ability to retain partners and harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. The operation of our platform involves the collection, processing, storage and transmission of consumers information, including personal information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or exposure of this information, which could result in potential liability, investigations, regulatory fines, litigation, and remediation costs, as well as reputational harm, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. For example, unauthorized parties could steal consumer names, email addresses, physical addresses, phone numbers, and other information, which we collect when providing our services. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to consumers or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of sensitive information, which could include personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental investigations, enforcement actions, regulatory fines, litigation, and public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and could cause consumers and partners to lose trust in us, all of which could be costly and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Regulatory agencies or business partners may institute more stringent data protection requirements or certifications than those which we are currently subject to and, if we cannot comply with those standards in a timely manner, we may lose the ability to maintain our platform. Moreover, if third parties that we work with violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations also may put consumer or partner information at risk and could in turn harm our reputation, business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. There can be no assurance that any security measures that we or our third-party service providers have implemented will be effective against current or future security threats. While we have developed systems and processes to protect the integrity, confidentiality, and security of our and our partners data, our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could fail and result in unauthorized access to or disclosure, modification, misuse, loss or destruction of such data. We may be unable to halt the operations of third-party websites that aggregate or misappropriate our data. From time to time, third parties may misappropriate our data through website scraping, robots, or other means and aggregate this data on their websites with data from other companies. In addition, copycat websites may misappropriate data from our platform and attempt to imitate our brand or the functionality of our website. If we become aware of such websites, we 33 Table of Contents intend to employ technological or legal measures in an attempt to halt their operations. However, we may be unable to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures may be insufficient to halt their operations. In some cases, particularly in the case of websites operating outside of the U.S., our available remedies may not be adequate to protect us against the effect of the operation of such websites. Regardless of whether we can successfully enforce our rights against the operators of these websites, any measures that we may take could require us to expend significant financial or other resources, which could harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. In addition, to the extent that such activity creates confusion among consumers or advertisers, our brand and business could be harmed. Our proprietary predictive modeling tools and artificial intelligence algorithms may not operate properly or as we expect them to, which could detrimentally impact our buyers advertising campaigns. Moreover, our proprietary predictive modeling tools and artificial intelligence algorithms may lead to unintentional bias and discrimination. We use proprietary predictive modeling tools and artificial intelligence algorithms in our product offerings. The data that we gather from interactions with consumers is evaluated and curated by proprietary predictive modeling tools and artificial intelligence algorithms. The continuous development, maintenance, and operation of our back-end data analytics engine is expensive and complex, and may involve unforeseen difficulties, including material performance problems, undetected defects or errors. We may encounter technical obstacles, and it is possible that we may discover additional problems that prevent our proprietary predictive modeling tools and artificial intelligence algorithms from operating properly. If our data analytics do not function reliably, this could negatively impact either the bidding experience for buyers on our platform or our ability to filter bids as part of the bid screening process or accurately predict a consumers buying behavior. Any of these situations could result in buyers dissatisfaction with us, which could cause our buyers to stop using our platform or prevent prospective buyers from using our platform. Additionally, our proprietary predictive modeling tools and artificial intelligence algorithms may lead to unintentional bias and discrimination, which could subject us to legal or regulatory liability as well as reputational harm. Any of these eventualities could result in a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. If the way cookies are used or shared, or if the use or transfer of cookies is restricted by third parties outside of our control or becomes subject to unfavorable legislation or regulation, our ability to develop and provide certain products or services could be affected. Small text files (referred to as cookies) placed on internet browsers by certain websites are used to gather data regarding a users web browsing activity. For example, cookie data allows us to collect data about the websites and webpages that users may visit or to identify users on other websites who have previously visited our partners websites. This information helps us to recognize prior users and to gather accurate conversion data from our partners. The availability of cookie data may be limited by numerous potential factors, including general trends among internet users to refuse to accept cookies on their web browsers, web browsers blocking third-party cookies by default or otherwise transitioning away from using cookies, other laws or regulations limiting the transferability or use of information gathered using cookies, or the refusal of providers of such information to provide it to us or to provide it to us on favorable terms. If we are not able to obtain this information on the terms we anticipate, our product offerings may be affected, which may cause a reduction in revenue or a reduction in revenue growth. Our use of open source software could adversely affect our ability to protect our proprietary software and subject us to possible litigation. Some of our services and technologies incorporate software licensed under so-called open source licenses. In addition to risks related to general license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or code quality, as it is generally freely accessible, usable, and modifiable, and is made available to the general public on an as-is basis under the terms of a non-negotiable license. Additionally, open source licenses frequently require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public, and often require that modifications or derivative works to open source software continue to be licensed under open source licenses. Certain open source licenses mandate that proprietary software, when combined in specific ways with open source software, become subject to the open source license. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their platforms have faced claims challenging the use of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software, or claiming non-compliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source licenses require users who distribute software containing open source to make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use, or grant other licenses to 34 Table of Contents our intellectual property, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code of the user. While we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose our proprietary source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur, in part because open source license terms are often ambiguous. The terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our platform. If we are held to have breached or failed to fully comply with all the terms and conditions of an open source software license, or if an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations, could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the operation of our platform or other liability, or be required to seek costly licenses from third parties to continue providing our platform on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our platform, to discontinue or delay the provision of our platform if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects, and could help our competitors develop platforms that are similar to or better than ours. We may not be able to protect and enforce our trademarks and trade names, or build name recognition in our markets of interest, thereby harming our competitive position. We have applied to register our MEDIAALPHA and QUOTELAB marks in the U.S., and may apply to register trademarks in the U.S. and other countries in the future. Such applications may not be allowed for registration in a timely fashion or at all, and our registered trademarks may not be enforced. Furthermore, the steps that we have already taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective. Even if we do detect violations, we may need to engage in litigation to enforce our rights. In addition, the registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names that we own may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks. We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition. In addition, opposition or cancellation proceedings may in the future be filed against our trademark applications and registrations, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. In addition, third parties may file first for our trademarks in certain countries. If they succeed in registering such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such third-party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to market our products in those countries. If we do not secure registrations for our trademarks, we may encounter more difficulty in enforcing them against third parties than we otherwise would. If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Risks related to laws and regulation Changes in the regulation of the internet could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Laws, rules and regulations governing internet communications, advertising and e-commerce are dynamic and the extent of future government regulation is uncertain. Federal and state regulations govern various aspects of our online business, including intellectual property ownership and infringement, trade secrets, the distribution of electronic communications, marketing and advertising, user privacy and data security, search engines, and internet tracking technologies. In addition, changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including with respect to net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our offerings and increase our cost of doing business. Future taxation on the use of the internet or e-commerce transactions could also be imposed. Existing or future regulation or taxation could hinder growth in or adversely affect the use of the internet generally, including the viability of internet e-commerce, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Our business is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, both in the U.S. and internationally, many of which are evolving. We are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. Laws, regulations, and standards governing issues such as worker classification, employment, payments, worker confidentiality obligations, intellectual property, consumer protection, taxation, privacy, antitrust and data security are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity and, as a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal and state administrative agencies. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the internet, mobile and related technologies and, as a result, 35 Table of Contents do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the internet and mobile and related technologies. Other laws and regulations may be adopted in response to internet, mobile and related technologies. New and existing laws and regulations (or changes in interpretation of existing laws and regulations) may also be adopted, implemented, or interpreted to apply to us and other online platforms. As our platforms scope expands, regulatory agencies or courts may claim that we, or our users, are subject to additional requirements or that we are prohibited from conducting our business in or with certain verticals or jurisdictions. It is also possible that certain provisions in agreements with our buyers, sellers, and service providers may be found to be unenforceable or not compliant with applicable law. Recent financial, political, and other events may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on larger companies and technology companies in general. The effects of recently imposed and proposed governmental antitrust actions are uncertain because of the dynamic nature of such actions. Scrutiny and regulation of the technology industry may increase, which could require us to devote significant legal and other resources to addressing such scrutiny and regulation. The growth and development of the technology industry in general may prompt calls for greater enforcement of U.S. and/or state antitrust laws, which may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours. Regulatory agencies may also enact new laws or promulgate new regulations that are adverse to our business, or they may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past or in a manner adverse to our business. Such regulatory scrutiny or action may create different or conflicting obligations on us from one jurisdiction to another. We may become subject to taxation in additional jurisdictions in the future. Laws and regulations regulating insurance activities are complex and could negatively affect the insurance carriers who use our platform, which could in turn have a material and adverse effect on our business, may reduce our profitability and potentially limit our growth. The insurance industry in the U.S. is heavily regulated. The insurance regulatory framework addresses, among other things: granting licenses to companies and agents to transact particular business activities; and regulating trade, marketing, compensation, and claims practices. In 2021, we became licensed to sell health insurance policies in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, which has subjected us to laws and regulations applicable to insurance brokers and to the authority of the insurance regulators in those jurisdictions. The cost of compliance with such regulations or any non-compliance could impose material costs on them and negatively affect their business, marketing practices, and budgets, any of which could reduce their level of business with us and thus have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Furthermore, the laws and regulations governing the sale of insurance may change in ways that adversely impact our business or those of our insurance partners. These changes could impact the manner in which they are permitted to conduct their businesses and could force them to reduce the compensation they receive, which could negatively affect their marketing practices, budgets, and overall level of business with us, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Changes and developments in the regulation of the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. The U.S. healthcare industry is subject to an evolving regulatory regime at both the federal and state levels. In recent years, there have been multiple reform efforts made within the healthcare industry in an effort to curtail healthcare costs. For example, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (the PPACA) and related regulatory reforms have materially changed the regulation of health insurance. While it is difficult to determine the impact of potential reforms on our future business, it is possible that such changes in industry regulation could result in reduced demand for our platform. Our insurance partners may react to existing or future reforms, or general regulatory uncertainty, by reducing their reliance on our platform. Developments of this type could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Healthcare laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and may change significantly in the future, impacting the coverage and plan designs that are or will be provided by certain insurance carriers. Health reform efforts and measures may expand the role of government-sponsored coverage, including single payer or Medicare-for-All proposals, which could have far-reaching implications for the insurance industry if enacted. We are unable to predict the full impact of healthcare reform initiatives on our operations in light of the uncertainty regarding the terms and timing of any provisions enacted and the impact of any of those provisions on various healthcare and insurance industry participants. In particular, because our platform helps connect consumers to websites and other distribution channels where they can shop for insurance policies from a panel of insurance carriers, the expansion of government-sponsored coverage through Medicare-for-All or the implantation of a single payer system may adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. 36 Table of Contents Changes in laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection or the protection or transfer of personal data could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local, and international laws, directives, and regulations, as well as contractual obligations, relating to privacy and the collection, protection, use, retention, security, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal information and other data, including the California Online Privacy Protection Act, the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act (the CAN-SPAM Act), Canadas Anti-Spam Law (CASL), the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (the TCPA), the U.S. Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), Section 5(c) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), supplemented by national laws (such as, in the United Kingdom, the Data Protection Act 2018) and further implemented through binding guidance from the European Data Protection Board, and the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA). These laws, rules and regulations evolve frequently and their scope may continually change, through new legislation, amendments to existing legislation and changes in enforcement, and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. As a result, implementation standards and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Although we endeavor to comply with our published policies and documentation and ensure their compliance with current laws, rules and regulations, we may at times fail to do so or be alleged to have failed to do so. The publication of our privacy policy and other documentation that provide promises and assurances about privacy and security can subject us to potential state and federal action in the U.S. if they are found to be deceptive, unfair, or misrepresentative of our actual practices. Any failure by us or other parties with whom we do business to comply with this documentation or with federal, state, local or international regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, private parties or others. In many jurisdictions, enforcement actions and consequences for non-compliance are rising. In the U.S., these include enforcement actions in response to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies and state attorneys general and legislatures and consumer protection agencies. A number of federal and state laws and regulations relating to privacy affect and apply to the insurance industry specifically, including those imposed by the New York Department of Financial Services. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups have proposed and may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. If we fail to follow these security standards even if no customer information is compromised, we may incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in costs. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply, including, but not limited to the EU. The EUs data protection landscape is currently unstable, resulting in potentially significant operational costs for internal compliance and risk to our business. The EU has adopted the GDPR, which went into effect in May 2018 and contains numerous requirements and changes from previously existing EU law, including more robust obligations on data processors and heavier documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs by companies. Among other requirements, the GDPR regulates transfers of personal data subject to the GDPR to third countries that have not been found to provide adequate protection to such personal data, including the U.S. While we have taken steps to mitigate the impact on us with respect to transfers of data, such as implementing standard contractual clauses, the efficacy and longevity of these transfer mechanisms remains uncertain. The Court of Justice of the European Union (the CJEU) issued a decision on July 16, 2020, invalidating the EU-US Privacy Shield Framework and calling the validity of standard contractual clauses into question under certain circumstances, which has made the legality of transferring personal data from the EU to the U.S. or various other jurisdictions outside of the EU more uncertain. While the European Data Protection Board recently issued certain draft guidance relating to ongoing use of the standard contractual clauses, including certain proposed amendments to the standard contractual clauses, the CJEUs decision has increased uncertainty surrounding data transfers from the EU to third countries that may not offer the same level of protection for data subjects rights as the EU. The enactment of the GDPR also introduced numerous privacy-related changes for companies operating in the EU, including greater control for data subjects (including, for example, the right to be forgotten), increased data portability for EU consumers, data breach notification requirements, and increased fines. In particular, under the GDPR, fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the annual global revenue of the non-compliant company, whichever is greater, could be imposed for violations of certain of the GDPRs requirements. Such penalties are in addition to any civil litigation claims by customers and data subjects. The GDPR requirements apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between us and our subsidiaries, including employee information. In addition to the GDPR, Directive 2002/58/EC (as amended by Directive 2009/136/EC) (together, the ePrivacy Directive) governs, among other things, the use of cookies and the sending of electronic direct marketing within the EU and, as such, will apply to our platform and products and our relationships with our partners. The ePrivacy Directive is expected to 37 Table of Contents be replaced by an EU regulation known as the Regulation on Privacy and Electronic Communications (the ePrivacy Regulation), which is still under development and will replace current national laws that implement the ePrivacy Directive. Additional time and effort may need to be spent addressing differences between the ePrivacy Regulation and the GDPR. New rules related to the ePrivacy Regulation are likely to include enhanced consent requirements in order to use communications content and communications metadata, which may negatively impact our platform and products and our relationships with our partners. Complying with the GDPR and the ePrivacy Regulation, when it becomes effective, may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance before the effective date of the GDPR and ePrivacy Regulation, we may not be successful in our efforts to achieve compliance either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of vendor cooperation. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, customers, data subjects or others. We may also experience difficulty retaining or obtaining new European or multi-national customers due to the legal requirements, compliance cost, potential risk exposure, and uncertainty for these entities, and we may experience significantly increased liability with respect to these customers pursuant to the terms set forth in our engagements with them. Domestic laws in this area are also complex and developing rapidly. Many state legislatures have adopted or are currently considering legislation that regulates how businesses operate online, including measures relating to privacy, data security, and data breaches. Laws in all 50 states require businesses to provide notice to customers whose personally identifiable information has been disclosed as a result of a data breach. The laws are not consistent, and compliance in the event of a widespread data breach is costly. States are also frequently amending existing laws, requiring attention to frequently changing regulatory requirements. For example, California recently enacted the CCPA, which became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA, among other things, requires new disclosures to California consumers and affords such consumers new abilities to access and delete their personal information, opt-out of certain sales of personal information and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA provides for fines of up to $7,500 per violation, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase the frequency of data breach litigation. While the CCPA has already been amended multiple times, it is unclear how this legislation will be further modified or how it will be interpreted. The effects of this legislation potentially are far-reaching, however, and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. Additionally, a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA), was approved by California voters in the election of November 3, 2020. The CPRA, which will take effect in most material respects on January 1, 2023, modifies the CCPA significantly, including by expanding consumers rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information and creating a new state agency to oversee implementation and enforcement efforts, which may result in further uncertainty and require us to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. The CCPA, CPRA and other changes in laws or regulations relating to privacy, data protection and information security, particularly any new or modified laws or regulations that require enhanced protection of certain types of data or new obligations with regard to data retention, transfer or disclosure, could greatly increase the cost of providing our offerings, require significant changes to our operations or even prevent us from providing certain offerings in jurisdictions in which we currently operate and in which we may operate in the future. Further, as we continue to expand our platform offerings and user base, we may become subject to additional privacy-related laws and regulations. For example, the collection and storage of healthcare data by health insurance carriers subject them to compliance requirements under HIPAA. HIPAA and its implementing regulations contain substantial restrictions and requirements regarding the use, collection, security, storage, and disclosure of individuals protected health information. In 2009, HIPAA was amended by the HITECH Act to impose certain of HIPAAs privacy and security requirements directly upon business associates of covered entities. Health insurance carriers are covered entities under HIPAA. In the instance we are deemed to be a business associate of such carriers, we may be bound by compliance obligations under HIPAA, including security breach notification obligations, and subject to increased liability as a possible liable party. In such instance, if we knowingly breach the HITECH Acts requirements, we could be exposed to criminal liability. A breach of our safeguards and processes could expose us to civil penalties up to $1.5 million for identical incidences and the possibility of civil litigation. Additionally, we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses in an effort to comply with privacy, data protection and information security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations. Despite our efforts to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, it is possible that our practices, offerings or platform could be inconsistent with, or fail or be alleged to fail to meet all requirements of, such laws, regulations or obligations. Our failure, or the failure by our third-party providers or partners, to comply with applicable laws or regulations or any other obligations relating to privacy, data protection or information security, or any compromise of security that results in unauthorized access to, or use or release of personally identifiable information or other data, or the perception that any of the foregoing types of failure or compromise has occurred, could damage our reputation, discourage new and existing partners from using our platform, delay planned uses, and 38 Table of Contents disclosures of data or result in fines or proceedings by governmental agencies and private claims and litigation, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Even if not subject to legal challenge, the perception of privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation and brand and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Any legal liability for the information we communicate to consumers could harm our business and operating results. Consumers may rely upon information we communicate regarding insurance plans, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, exclusions, limitations, availability, and plan comparisons. If we provide inaccurate information or information that could be construed as misleading, we could be found liable for related damages and our relationships with our insurance partners could suffer. Our and our partners communications with potential and existing consumers are subject to laws regulating telephone and email marketing practices. We and our partners make telephone calls and send emails and text messages to potential and existing consumers. The U.S. regulates marketing by telephone and email and the laws and regulations governing the use of emails and telephone calls for marketing purposes continue to evolve, and changes in technology, the industry or consumer preferences may lead to the adoption of additional laws or regulations or changes in interpretation of existing laws or regulations. New laws or regulations, or changes to the manner in which existing laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, may further restrict our and our partners ability to contact potential and existing consumers by phone and email and could render us and them unable to communicate with consumers in a cost-effective fashion. The TCPA prohibits companies from making telemarketing calls to numbers listed in the Federal Do-Not-Call Registry and imposes other obligations and limitations on making phone calls and sending text messages to consumers. The CAN-SPAM Act regulates commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that do not comply with certain requirements, such as providing an opt-out mechanism for stopping future emails from senders. We and our partners are required to comply with these and similar laws, rules and regulations. However, because our partners may provide consumer information to third-party advertisers with whom we do not have a direct contractual relationship, we may not be able to monitor the compliance activity of such third-party advertisers. Failure to comply with obligations and restrictions related to telephone, text message, and email marketing could subject us and them to lawsuits, fines, statutory damages, consent decrees, injunctions, adverse publicity, and other losses that could harm, directly or indirectly, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. Risks related to being a public company Our operating results or other operating metrics may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly and annual basis and may not meet expectations of research analysts, which could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline. Our quarterly operating results and other operating metrics have fluctuated in the past and may in the future fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may be difficult to predict. Period to period variability or unpredictability of our results could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of any analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other operating results for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially, and we could face litigation, including securities class actions. In addition, if one or more analysts covering our business downgrade their evaluations of our Class A common stock or the stock of other companies in our industry, the price of our Class A common stock could decline. If one or more analysts cease to cover our Class A common stock, we could lose visibility in the market for our Class A common stock, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly results, including the levels of our revenue, our operating expenses and other costs, and our operating metrics, may fluctuate significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons of our results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one period should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. In addition, our quarterly results may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results include, but are not limited to: the timing of cyclical changes in market conditions in the P&C insurance and health insurance industries, and in the levels of customer acquisition spending by our demand partners; the mix of Transaction Value in a given period from Open Marketplace and Private Marketplace transactions; 39 Table of Contents our ability to attract new supply and demand partners and retain our existing supply and demand partners, and to expand our business with these partners; the timing and level of market acceptance of new platform capabilities introduced by us and our competitors; the amount and timing of operating expenses and other costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, infrastructure and operations; the amount and timing of operating expenses and other costs associated with assessing or entering new vertical markets; the amount and timing of operating expenses and other costs related to the development or acquisition of businesses, technologies or intellectual property rights; the timing and impact of security breaches, service outages or other performance problems with our technology infrastructure and software solutions; the timing and costs associated with legal or regulatory actions; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, strategic partners or customers; loss of our executive officers or other key employees; and general economic and market conditions. In addition to other factors that cause our results of operations to fluctuate, our results are also subject to significant seasonal fluctuation. In our P&C insurance vertical, revenue and results in our fourth fiscal quarter are typically weaker than in our first three fiscal quarters due to lower supply of Consumer Referrals on a cost-effective basis during the holiday period and lower customer acquisition budgets from some demand partners. In our first fiscal quarter, this trend generally reverses with greater supply of Consumer Referrals and often new customer acquisition budgets at the beginning of the year for our partners with fiscal years ending December 31. In our health insurance vertical, revenue and results in our second and third fiscal quarters are typically weaker than in our first and last fiscal quarters during which the open enrollment periods for health insurance and annual enrollment for Medicare drive a material increase in consumer search volume for health insurance and Medicare products and a related increase in demand partner customer acquisition budgets. Fluctuations in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our Class A common stock, regardless of whether they impact or reflect the overall performance of our business. If our quarterly results fall below the expectations of investors or any securities analysts who follow our stock, or below any guidance we may provide, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. We are required to make significant estimates and assumptions in the preparation of our financial statements. These estimates and assumptions may not be accurate and are subject to change. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of income and expense during the reporting periods. If our underlying estimates and assumptions prove to be incorrect or if events occur that require us to revise our previous estimates or assumptions, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention, which has increased and will increase our costs of operations and may divert focus from our business operations. Prior to the IPO, we were not required to comply with the requirements of the SEC or to file periodic reports with the SEC. Following the completion of the IPO, we are now required to file periodic reports containing our consolidated financial statements with the SEC within a specified time following the completion of quarterly and annual periods. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, insurance, and other expenses. Continued compliance with these reporting requirements and other rules of the SEC and the rules of the NYSE have increased and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time consuming and costly. Furthermore, the need to maintain the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert managements attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from successfully implementing our strategic initiatives and improving our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. 40 Table of Contents The requirements of being a public company, particularly now that we are no longer an emerging growth company, may strain our resources and distract our management, which could make it difficult to manage our business. As a public company, we incur legal, accounting and other expenses, such as premiums for director and officer liability insurance, that we did not previously incur, and such expenses may increase in the future. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE and other applicable securities rules and regulations. As an emerging growth company, we were eligible for certain exemptions from various public company reporting requirements. These exemptions include, but are not limited to, (i) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (ii) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports, proxy statements and registration statements, (iii) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and shareholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved, and (iv) an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies. However, based on our aggregate market value of the shares of our Class A common stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2021, we became a large accelerated filer and no longer qualify as an emerging growth company beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. As such, we are no longer eligible to rely on the various exemptions available for emerging growth companies in our filings with the SEC. Compliance with these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increase demand on our systems and resources. We have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal