Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Any statements made or implied in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27 A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and should be evaluated as such. The words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, estimate, target, p roject, should, may, could, will and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally relate to information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, future economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate the effects of future regulation and the effects of competition. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans, projections and strategies, anticipated financial results, future events and financial trends affecting our business, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors (in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report) that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; government and central bank regulations; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition ; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America in general, and Venezuela and Argentina in particular, including Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy for generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP), and possible future currency devaluation and other changes to its exchange rate systems such as the Sistema Marginal de Divisas (SIMADI) or Sistema Cambiario de Divisas Complementarias (DICOM) and possible further devaluations of the Argentine Peso. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements . These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertaintiesmany of which are beyond our control-as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 26 , 2016, as updated by those described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part II of this report and in other reports we file from time to time with the SEC. You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report, our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201 5 . We note such information for investors as permitted by the 23 Table of Contents Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because they are unknown to us or we do not perceive them to be a material risk that could cause results to differ m aterially from our expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations has been organized to present the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 ; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, a discussion of our capital expenditures and a description of our non-GAAP financial measures; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Business Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the Company) hosts the largest online commerce platform in Latin America, which is focused on enabling e-commerce and its related services. Our platforms are designed to provide our users with a complete portfolio of services facilitating e-commerce transactions. Additionally, we are market leaders in e-commerce in each of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, based on unique visitors and page views. We also operate online commerce platforms in the Dominican Republic, Panama , Bolivia, Guatemala, Paraguay and Portugal. Through our online commerce platform, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust online commerce environment that fosters the development of a large and growing e-commerce community in Latin America, a region with a population of over 605 million people and one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates in the world. We believe that we offer a technological and commercial solution that addresses the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America . We offer our users an eco-system of six related e-commerce services: the MercadoLibre Marketplace, the MercadoLibre Classifieds service, the MercadoPago payments solution, the MercadoLibre Advertising program (MercadoClics), the MercadoShops online webstores solution and the MercadoEnvios shipping service . The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our Marketplace, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list general merchandising items and conduct their sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. Any Internet user in the countries in which we operate can browse through the various products that are listed on our website and register with MercadoLibre to list, bid for and purchase such items and services . To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online payments solution. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off the MercadoLibre Marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely , easily and promptly send, receive and finance payments online. MercadoPago is currently available in: Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela and Chile. Through MercadoLibre Classifieds service, our online classified listings, our users can offer for sale and generate leads on listings in motors, real estate and services verticals in all counties where we operate. As a further enhancement to the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed our MercadoLibre Advertising program to enable businesses to promote their products and services through a cost efficient and automated platform that allows advertisers to acquire traffic both, to our platform or to their own websites. Through MercadoLibre Advertising, MercadoLibre`s sellers, and large advertisers/brands are able to place display, product and/or text ads on our web pages, and other web pages including all vertical sites associated in the region. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, through MercadoShops, our online webstores solution, users can set-up, manage and promote their own online webstores. These webstores are hosted by MercadoLibre and offer integration with the other marketplace, payments and advertising services we offer. Users can choose from a basic, free webstore or pay monthly subscriptions for enhanced functionality and value added services on their webstores. To close out our suite of e-commerce services, we launched the MercadoEnvios shipping solution in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Colombia and Chile. Through MercadoEnvios, we offer a cost-efficient integration with existing logistic and shipping carriers to sellers on our platform. Sellers opting into the program are able to offer a uniform and seamlessly integrated shipping experience to their buyers at competitive prices . In addition , MercadoLibre began developing and selling software enterprise solutions to e-commerce business clients in Brazil during the second quarter of 2015. Reporting Segments and Geographic I nformation Our segment reporting is based on geography, which is the current criterion we are using to evaluate our segment performance. Our geographic segments include Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela , Mexico and other countries (including Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Bolivia, Guatemala, Paraguay, Uruguay and the United States of America (real estate classifieds in the State of Flori da only)). Although we discuss long-term trends in our business, it is our policy to not provide earnings guidance in the traditional sense. We believe that uncertain conditions make the forecasting of near-term results difficult. Further, we seek to make decisions focused primarily on the long-term welfare of our company and believe focusing on short term earnings does not best serve the interests of our stockholders. We believe that execution of key strategic initiatives as well as our expectations for long-term growth in our markets will best create stockholder value. We, therefore, encourage potential investors to consider this strategy before making an investment in our common stock. A long-term focus may make it more difficult for industry analysts and the market to evaluate the value of our company, which could reduce the value of our common stock of permit competitors with short term tactics to grow stronger than us. The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net revenues by segment for th e three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-months Periods Ended March 31, (% of total consolidated net revenues) (*) 2016 2015 Brazil 49.2 % 46.3 % Argentina 30.6 32.0 Venezuela 7.7 9.4 Mexico 7.1 6.4 Other Countries 5.5 5.9 (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. The following table summarizes the changes in our net re venues by segment for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-months Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 77.5 $ 68.5 $ 9.0 13.2 % Argentina 48.2 47.4 0.8 1.6 Venezuela 12.1 14.0 (1.9) (13.3) Mexico 11.1 9.4 1.7 17.8 Other Countries 8.7 8.8 (0.1) (1.2) Total Net Revenues $ 157.6 $ 148.1 $ 9.5 6.4 % 25 Table of Contents (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Recent D evelopments Business acquisition On February 12, 2016 , through our subsidiaries Meli Participaciones S.L. and Marketplace Investment LLC, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Monits S.A., a software development company located and organized under the laws of Buenos Aires, Argentina for the purchase price of $3.1 million, measured at its fair value . We believe this acquisition will allow us to enhance our software development capabilities . Description of Line Items Net revenues We recognize revenues in each of our five reporting segments. Our reporting segments include our operations in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Mexico and other countries (Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Bolivia, Guatemala, Paraguay, Uruguay and the United States of America) . Within each of our segments, the services we provide generally fall into two distinct revenue streams, Marketplace which includes our core business and Non-Marketplace which includes ad sales, real estate listings, motors listings, financing fees, off-platform payment fees , shipping fees and other ancillary businesses. The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues by revenue stream for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (*) Consolidated net revenues by revenue stream 2016 2015 (in millions) Marketplace $ 94.1 $ 94.8 Non-Marketplace (**) 63.5 53.3 Total $ 157.6 $ 148.1 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. (**) Includes, among other things, ad sales, real estate, motors, financing fees, off-platform payment fees, shipping fees, and other ancillary services . Revenues from Marketplace transactions are generated from: final value fees; and up-front fees . For Marketplace services, final value fees representing a percentage of the sale value that are charged to the seller once the item is successfully sold. Up-front fees are charged to the seller in exchange for improved exposure of the listings throughout our platform and are not subject to the successful sale of the items listed. Revenues for the Non-Marketplace services are generated from: financing fees; off- platform payment fees; motors listings up-front fees; ad sales up-front fees; real estate listings up-front fees; 26 Table of Contents shipping fees; and fees from other ancillary businesses. With respect to our MercadoPago service, we generate payment related revenues, reported within each of our reporting segments, attributable to: commissions representing a percentage of the payment volume processed that are charged to sellers in connection with Non -Marketplace-platform transactions; and revenues from financing that occur when a buyer elects to pay in installments through our MercadoPago platform, for transactions that occur either on or off our M arketplace platform. Although we also process payments on the Marketplace, we do not charge sellers an added commission for this service, as it is already included in the Marketplace final value fee we charge . Through our classifieds offerings in motors, real estate and services, we generate revenues from up-front fees. These fees are charged to sellers who opt to give their listings greater exposure throughout our websites . Our Advertising revenues are generated by selling either display or t ext link ads throughout our web site s to interested advertisers. Finally, our shipping revenues are generated when a buyer elects to receive the item through our shipping service. When more than one service is included in one single arrangement with the customer, we recognize revenue according to multiple element arrangements accounting, distinguishing between each of the services provided and allocating revenues based on their respective selling prices. We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 , no single customer accounted for more than 5.0% of our net revenues. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in 16 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay, Venezuela, Bolivia, Guatemala and Paraguay ), and MercadoPago is available in six countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela). Additionally, MercadoEnvios is available in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Chile. The functional currency for each countrys operations is the countrys local currency, except for Venezuela where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar due to Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the avera ge monthly exchange rate. See Critical A ccounting P olicies and E stimates Foreign Currency Translation for more information. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as a cost of net revenues. These taxes represented 8 . 3 % of net revenues for the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6, as compared to 7.4% , for the same period in 2 0 1 5 , mainly due to an increase in shipping and finance cost which are accounted for net of its costs in net revenues. These taxes are applicable mainly in our Brazilian and Argentine subsidiaries. Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, fraud prevention fees, certain taxes on revenues, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization and hosting and website operation fees . Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, telecommunications costs and payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to us . Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing costs for our platforms through online and offline advertising, bad debt charges, chargebacks related to our MercadoPago operations, changes related to our buyer protection programs, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs . 27 Table of Contents We carry out the majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. In that regard, we enter into agreements with portals, search engines, social networks, ad networks and other websites in order to attract Internet users to the Marketplace and convert them into confirmed registered users and active traders on our platform. Additionally, we allocate a portion of our marketing budget to cable television advertising in order to improve our brand awareness and to complement our online efforts . We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our supply efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform . General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long-term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, accounting, audit and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. Our general and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources . Impairment of l ong- l ived assets We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. As explained in section Foreign Currency Translation Venezuelan Currency Status below, the exchange markets in Venezuela have been unfavorable to us since December 2013. Considering these changes in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows expected from the Venezuelan business, and long-lived assets expected use, we compared the carrying amount of the long-lived assets with the expected undiscounted future net cash flows and concluded that certain office spaces held in Caracas, Venezuela, should be impaired. As a consequence, we estimated the fair value of the impaired long-lived assets and recorded impairment losses of $16.2 million on March 31, 2015, by using the market approach and considering prices for similar assets. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses) consists primarily of interest income derived from our investments and cash equivalents, interest expense related to financial liabilities and foreign currency gains or losses . Income and asset tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes and asset taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change in our deferred tax assets and liabilities during each period . Critical A ccounting P olicies and E stimates The preparation of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and our board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our interim condensed con solidated financial statements. 28 Table of Contents There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies, management estimates or accounting policies since the year ended December 31, 201 5 and disclosed in the Form 10-K. See Item Critical Accounting Policies . Foreign Currency Translation Historically, all of our foreign operations have used the local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, these operating foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using period/year-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss), a component of equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency gains/ loss es . All our foreign operations have determined the local currency to be their functional currency, except for Venezuela since January 1, 2010, as described below. Accordingly, these foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies into U.S. dollars by using the period-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during the period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of the transaction are used. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Venezuelan Currency Status In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary since January 1, 2010, using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for purposes of reporting our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect has been accounted for in other comprehensive income related to our Venezuelan operations. As of March 31, 2016, monetary assets and liabilities in Bolivares Fuertes (BsF) were re-measured to the U.S. dollar using the SIMADI (defined below) closing exchange rate of 273 BsF per U.S. dollar. O n Februa ry 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government issued a decree that unified the two previous foreign exchange systems SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a new single system denominated SICAD, with an initial public foreign exchange rate of 12 BsF per U.S. dollar. The SICAD auction process remains available only to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which does not include those relating to the our business. In the same decree the Venezuelan government created the Sistema Marginal de Divisas (SIMADI), a new foreign exchange system that is separate from SICAD, which publishes a foreign exchange rate from the BCV on a daily basis. In light of the disappearance of SICAD 2, and we inability to gain access to U.S. dollars through the new single system under SICAD, we started requesting and was granted U.S. dollars through SIMADI. As a result, we from that moment expected to settle its transactions through SIMADI and concluded that the SIMADI exchange rate should be used to re-measure its bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to re-measure the revenues and expenses of the Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of March 31, 2015. In connection with this re-measurement, we reco rded a foreign exchange loss of $20.4 million during the first quarter of 2015. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows then expected from the Venezuelan business, we reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of March 31, 2015 would not be fully recoverable. As a result, we recorded an impai rment of long-lived assets of $ 16.2 million on March 31, 2015. The carrying amount was adjusted to its estimated fair value as of March 31, 2015, by using the market approach, and considering prices for similar assets. On March 9, 2016 the Central Bank of Venezuela ( BCV ) issued the Exchange Agreement No.35, which is effective as from March 10, 2016. The agreement established a protected exchange rate ( DIPRO ) for certain transactions, such as but not limited to: imports of goods of the food and health sectors, as well as supplies associated with the production of said sectors; expenses relating to health treatments, sports, culture, scientific research, and other urgent matters defined by the exchange regulations. All foreign currency transactions not expressly provided in Exchange Agreement No.35 will be processed on the alternate foreign currency markets governed by the exchange regulations, at the floating supplementary market exchange rate ( DICOM ). Additionally, the agreement established that the alternate foreign currency markets referred to in Exchange Agreement No.33 of February 10, 2015 (SIMADI) will continue until replaced by others. As of the date of this report, the SIMADI has not been replaced and for that reason, we continued using SIMADI. As of March 3 1, 201 6, the SIMADI exchange rate was 273 BsF per U.S. dollar. Until 2010 we were able to obtain U.S. dollars for any purpose, including dividend distributions, using alternative mechanisms other than through the Commission for the Administration of Foreign Exchange Control (CADIVI). Those U.S. dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Our Venezuelan subsidiaries have not requested authorization since 2012 to acquire U.S. dollars to make dividend distributions and we have not distributed dividends from our Venezuelan subsidiaries since 2011 . 29 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of the our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations of a net liability of $29.2 million and $ 24.6 million , as of March 3 1 , 201 6 and December 31, 201 5 and net revenues for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : March 31, 2016 2015 Venezuelan operations (In millions) Net Revenues $ 12.1 $ 14.0 March 31, December 31, 2016 2015 (In millions) Assets 72.0 65.4 Liabilities (39.8) (36.3) Net Assets $ 32.2 $ 29.1 As of March 31 , 201 6 , the net assets (before intercompany eliminations) of our Venezuelan subsidiaries amount ed to approximately 9 . 1 % of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiaries held in local currency in Venezuela amount ed to approximately 2 . 0 % of our consolidated cash and investments. Our ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela is negatively affected by the exchange restrictions in Venezuela that are described above. If our access to U.S. dollars becomes widely available at a more unfavorable rate than the current SIMADI exchange rate (or if SIMADI exchange rate experiences significant devaluation in the future), and we decided to use that alternative mechanism considering that exchange rate as the one applicable for re-measurement, our results of operations, earnings and value of our net assets in Venezuela would be negatively impacted, and we cannot assure that the impact would not be material . In addition, our business and ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela would be negatively affected by any additional material devaluations or the imposition of significant additional and more stringent controls on foreign currency exchange by the Venezuelan government in the future. Despite the current difficult macroeconomic environment in Venezuela, we continue actively managing, through our Venezuelan subsidiaries, our investment in Venezuela. Despite the current operating, political and economic conditions and certain other factors in Venezuela, we currently plan to continue supporting our business in Venezuela in the long run . In November 2013 the Venezuelan Congress approved an enabling law granting the president of Venezuela the authority to enact laws and regulations in certain policy areas by decree. This authority includes the ability to restrict profit margins and impose greater controls on foreign exchange and the production, import, and distribution of certain goods. Among other actions, the president has used this decree power to pass the Law of Costs, Earnings, and Fair Profits, which became effective in January 2014 and, among other provisions, authorizes the Venezuelan government to set fair prices and maximum profit margins in the private sector. On October 26, 2015, the decree number 2,074 was published in the Official Gazette of Venezuela, establishing certain definitions related to the determination of prices in that country. Despite we do not expect that this law together with the decree issued by the Venezuelan Government will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations, considering the current difficult macroeconomic environment in Venezuela, the final potential effects remains uncertain. The effects of such potential effects, if any, would be recognized in our financial statements once the mentioned uncertainty is resolved. Allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers. Allowances for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. The allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks are recorded as charges to sales and marketing expenses. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future adverse changes to our historical experience for doubtful accounts and chargebacks could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows . 30 Table of Contents We believe that the accounting estimate related to allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment . Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances and historical information related to actions filed against us at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events . From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 1 of Part II of this report, Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 201 5 and in Note 7 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements, included in this report. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we will defend ourselves accordingly. However, even if successful, our defense could be costly and could divert managements time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay material damages or modify our business practices. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows . Impairment of long-lived assets We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. For more information, see Description of line items Impairment of long-lived assets above . Convertible Senior Notes On June 30, 2014, we issued $330 million of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the Notes). The Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of the Company, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1, at a rate of 2.25% per annum. The Notes will mature on July 1, 2019 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes may be converted, under specific conditions, based on an initial conversion rate of 7.9353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $126.02 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the Notes . The convertible debt instrument within the scope of the cash conversion subsection was separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a fair value was assigned. The value assigned to the debt component was the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar debt without the conversion feature. As of June 30, 2014, we determined the fair value of the liability component of the Notes by reviewing market data that was available for senior, unsecured nonconvertible corporate bonds issued by comparable companies. The difference between the cash proceeds and this estimated fair value, represents the value assigned to the equity component and was recorded as a debt discount. The debt discount is amortized using the effective interest method from the origination date through its stated contractual maturity date . The initial debt component of the Notes was valued at $283.0 million, based on the contractual cash flows discounted at an appropriate market rate for a non-convertible debt at the date of issuance, which was determined to be 5.55%. The carrying value of the permanent equity component reported in additional paid-in-capital was initially valued at $47.0 million. This amount represents the total unamortized debt discount we recorded at the time of issuance of the Notes. The aggregate debt discount, including the transaction costs related to the debt component, is amortized as interest expense over the contractual term of the Notes using the effective interest method using an interest rate of 6.1% . In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we paid $19.7 million to enter into capped call transactions with respect to shares of our common stock (the Capped Call Transactions), with certain financial institutions. The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in the event that the market price of our common stock is greater than the strike price of the Capped Call Transactions, initially set at $126.02 per share of common stock, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes and is subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the conversion rate of the Notes, and have a cap price of $155.78 per share of common stock . The $19.7 million cost of the capped call transactions, which net of deferred income tax effect amounts to $12.8 million, is included as a net reduction to additional paid-in capital in the stockholders equity section of our consolidated balance sheets. 31 Table of Contents For more detailed information in relation to the Notes and the Capped Call transactions, see Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 Debt. Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 The selected financial data for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 discussed herein is derived from our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. These statements include all normal recurring adjustments that management believes are necessary to fairly state our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2016 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year ending December 31, 2016 or for any other period. Statement of income data Three-months Periods Ended March 31, (In millions) 2016 (*) 2015 (*) (Unaudited) Net revenues $ 157.6 $ 148.1 Cost of net revenues (55.4) (44.7) Gross profit 102.2 103.4 Operating expenses: Product and technology development (21.9) (17.2) Sales and marketing (32.7) (26.2) General and administrative (17.1) (18.1) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (16.2) Total operating expenses (71.7) (77.8) Income from operations 30.5 25.6 Other income (expenses): Interest income and other financial gains 7.3 4.3 Interest expense and other financial charges (5.7) (5.0) Foreign currency gain/ (loss) 5.1 (8.6) Net income before income / asset tax expense 37.2 16.4 Income / asset tax expense (7.0) (14.7) Net income $ 30.2 $ 1.7 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. Other Data Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 Number of confirmed registered users at end of period (1) 151.5 126.7 Number of confirmed new registered users during period (2) 6.9 5.7 Gross merchandise volume (3) $ 1,781.1 $ 1,649.1 Number of successful items sold (4) 38.3 27.5 32 Table of Contents Total payment volume (5) $ 1,376.1 $ 1,037.3 Total payment transactions (6) 27.5 14.8 Capital expenditures $ 17.3 $ 8.3 Depreciation and amortization $ 6.3 $ 5.1 (1) Measure of the cumulative number of users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. (2) Measure of the number of new users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. (3) Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions completed through the MercadoLibre Marketplace, excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate. (4) Measure of the number of items that were sold/purchased through the MercadoLibre Marketplace. (5) Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. (6) Measure of the number of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. Net revenues Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total Net Revenues $ 157.6 $ 148.1 $ 9.5 6.4% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 100.0% 100.0% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (**) Consolidated Net Revenues by revenue stream 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Brazil Marketplace $ 43.7 $ 40.8 $ 2.9 7.2% Non-Marketplace 33.8 27.7 6.1 22.0% 77.5 68.5 9.0 13.2% Argentina Marketplace $ 29.8 $ 30.3 $ (0.5) -1.6% Non-Marketplace 18.4 17.1 1.2 7.3% 48.2 47.4 0.8 1.6% Venezuela Marketplace $ 11.2 $ 12.8 $ (1.7) -13.0% Non-Marketplace 0.9 1.1 (0.2) -16.3% 12.1 14.0 (1.9) -13.3% Mexico Marketplace $ 5.8 $ 6.4 $ (0.5) -8.2% Non-Marketplace 5.3 3.1 2.2 71.5% 11.1 9.4 1.7 17.8% Other countries Marketplace $ 3.6 $ 4.5 $ (0.9) -20.8% Non-Marketplace 5.1 4.3 0.8 19.2% 8.7 8.8 (0.1) -1.2% Marketplace 94.1 94.8 (0.7) -0.7% Non-Marketplace (*) 63.5 53.3 10.2 19.1% Total $ 157.6 $ 148.1 $ 9.5 6.4% 33 Table of Contents (*) Includes, among other things, ad sales, real estate, motors, financing fees, off-platform payment fees , shipping fees and other ancillary services. (**) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. On a segment basis, our net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 , increased across most geographic segments, except for the Venezuelan segment mainly as a consequence of local currency devaluation. Brazil Marketplace revenue in Brazil increased 7 . 2 % in the three-month period ended March 31, 201 6 as compared to the same period in 201 5 . The increase was primarily a consequence of a 59.7% increase in local currency volume, partially offset by a 8.5% decrease in our take rate (which we define as net revenues as a percentage of gross merchandise volume) and a 26.7% devaluation of local currency. The Non-Marketplace business grew 22.0%, a $6.1 million increase, during the same period, mainly driven by increases in the volume of financing transactions offered to our users and in ad sales . A rgentina Marketplace revenues of our Argentine segment decreased 1 . 6 % in the three-month period ended March 31, 201 6 a s compared to the same period in 2015, mainly due to a local currency devaluation of 40.6% and a 6.3% decrease in our take rate. Those decreases were partially offset by a 76.8% increase in local currency volume. The Non-Marketplace business grew 7.3%, a $1.2 million increase, during the same period mainly driven by increases in the volume of payments off-platform transactions offered to our users and the volume of shipped items. Venezuela Marketplace revenues of our Venezuelan segment during t he three-month period ended March 31, 201 6 , decreased by approximately 13 . 0 % when compared to the same period in 2015, mainly due to a local currency devaluation of 75.1% and a 10.9% decrease in our take rate. Those decreases were partially offset by a 292.5% increase in local currency volume. The Non-Marketplace business decreased 16.3%, or $0.2 million during the same period, mainly by the devaluation mentioned above, which was partially offset by an increase in the volume of transactions. Mexico Marketplace revenues of our Mexican segment during the three-month period ended March 31, 201 6 , decreased by approximately 8 . 2 % when compared to the same period in 201 5 , mainly due to a local currency devaluation of 17 . 2 % , which was partially offset by a 11.0% increase in local currency volume . The Non-Marketplace business increased 71.5% or $2.2 million during the same period, mainly driven by increases in the volume of financing transactions offered to our users , classifieds and shipping transactions . The following table sets forth our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly growth of these net revenues for the periods described below: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (in millions, except percentages) (*) 2016 Net revenues $ 157.6 n/a n/a n/a Percent change from prior quarter -13% 2015 Net revenues $ 148.1 $ 154.3 $ 168.6 $ 180.7 Percent change from prior quarter -8% 4% 9% 7% 2014 Net revenues $ 115.4 $ 131.8 $ 147.9 $ 161.4 Percent change from prior quarter -14% 14% 12% 9% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the growth in net revenues in local currencies for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015: Changes from (% of revenue growth in Local Currency) 2015 to 2016 (*) Brazil 53.7% Argentina 71.2% Venezuela 248.5% Mexico 42.3% Other Countries 18.9% Total Consolidated 75.0% (*) The local currency revenue growth was calculated by using the average monthly exchange rates for each month during 201 5 and applying them to the corresponding months in 201 6 , so as to calculate what our financial results would have been had exchange rates remained stable from one year to the next. In Venezuela, the increase in our net revenues is mainly due to higher average selling prices pos ted by sellers during the three-month period ended March 31 , 201 6 , which we do not control. The increase in average selling prices is a consequence of: (i) high inflation rate in that country; (ii) a shortage of products in Venezuela and (iii) changes in the mix of categ ories of the items sold in our M arketplace. In the case of Argentina, the increase in our net revenues is due to an increase in the Argentine successful items mark volume and higher average selling prices posted by sellers during the three-month period ended March 31 , 2016 , which we do not control. The increase in average selling prices is a consequence of high inflation rates in Argentina. Additionally , the increase in our net revenues is a consequence of an increase in shipped items volume and increases in our MercadoPago transactions. In Brazil, the significant increase in local currency growth, as compared to U.S. dollar growth, is a consequence of an increase of our Brazilian Marketplace volume and our shipped items volume and increases in our MercadoPago transactions. For more explanation of the revenue growth, see above mentioned dis closures in this section. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign Currency Translation. C ost of net revenues Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total cost of net revenues $ 55.4 $ 44.7 $ 10.7 24.0% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 35.2% 30.2% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 as compared to the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 , the increase of $ 10 . 7 million in cost of net revenues was primarily attributable to : i) an increase in collection fees amounting to $ 4 . 7 million, or 20 . 9 %, which was mainly attributable to our Argentine and Brazilian operations as a result of the higher penetration of MercadoPago in those countries ; ii) an increase in sales taxes amounting to $ 2 . 2 million, mainly related to the growth of our Argentine and Brazilian operations; iii) a $ 2 .1 million increase in customer support costs mainly as a consequence of salaries and wages, iv) $0.8 million in hosting costs and v) $0.9 million in mobile point s of sale (MPOS) costs. 35 Table of Contents Product and technology development expenses Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Product and technology development $ 21.9 $ 17.2 $ 4.7 27.2% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 13.9% 11.6% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 , the increase in product and technology development expenses as compared to the same period in 201 5 amounted to $ 4.7 million or 27 . 2 %. The increase was primarily attributable to: i) an increase in salaries and wages of $ 2 . 1 million ; ii) a n increase in maintenance expenses of $ 1 . 1 million; ii i ) an increase in depreciation and amortization expenses of $ 0 . 9 million and iv) an increase in other product and technology development expenses of $0.5 million. We believe product development is one of our key competitive advantages and intend to continue to invest in hiring engineers to meet the increasingly sophisticated product expectations of our customer base. Sales and marketing expenses Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 32.7 $ 26.2 $ 6.5 24.7% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 20.7% 17.7% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 , the $ 6 . 5 million increase in sales and marketing expenses when compared to the same period in 201 5 was primarily attributable to: i) a $ 2 . 4 million increase in expenses related to our buyer protection program; ii) an increase of $2 . 1 million in on line portal deals expenses ; and iii) a $ 1 . 6 million increase in salaries and wages. General and administrative expenses Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 17.1 $ 18.1 $ (1.1) -5.9% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 10.8% 12.2% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2016, the $1.1 million decrease in general and administrative expenses when compared to the same period in 2015 was primarily attributable to: i) a $0.7 million decrease in salaries and wages mainly as a consequence of the LTRP and the local currency devaluation in Argentina and ii) a $0.4 million decrease in legal fees. 36 Table of Contents Impairment of Long-Lived assets Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets $ $ 16.2 $ (16.2) -100.0% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 0.0% 11.0% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. We have recorded an impairment of certain real estate offices owned by our Venezuelan subsidiaries of $16.2 million during the first quarter of 2015. For further information, see section Foreign Currency Translation Venezuelan currency status. Other income / (expense), net Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Other income (expense), net $ 6.7 $ (9.2) $ 15.9 -172.9% As a percentage of net revenues 4.3% -6.2% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2016, the $15.9 million increase in other income/ (expense), net when compared to the same period in 2015 was primarily attributable to a consolidated foreign exchange gain of $5.1 million in 2016 as compared to a $8.6 million loss in the same period in 2015. The 2016 foreign exchange gain was primarily attributable to the impact of the Argentine Peso devaluation over our U.S. Dollar net asset position in Argentina. The 2015 foreign exchange loss was a consequence of a $20.4 million foreign exchange loss in Venezuela as a result of start using the SIMADI exchange rate since March 31, 2015, partially offset by a foreign exchange gain in Brazil of $10.1 million and a $1.0 million foreign exchange gain in Argentina. Additionally, interest income increased $2.9 million and financial expenses decreased $0.7 million during the three month period ended March 31, 2016 when compared to the same period in 2015. Income and asset tax Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2015 March 31, to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Income and asset tax $ 7.0 $ 14.7 $ (7.7) -52.5% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 4.4% 9.9% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. During the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 as compared to the same period in 201 5 , income and asset tax decreased by $ 7 .7 million , mainly as a consequence of the tax h oliday granted to our Argentine subsidiary related t o the new software development law recorded in the first quarter of 2016 while during the first quarter of 2015 we hadnt been granted this tax holiday. 37 Table of Contents Our blended tax rate is defined as income and asset tax expense as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. Our effective income tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes (net of charges related to dividend distributions from foreign subsidiaries that are offset with domestic foreign tax credits) as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. The effective income tax rate excludes the effects of the deferred income tax, and the assets and complementary income tax. The following table summarizes our blended and effective tax rates for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Blended tax rate 18.7% 89.5% Effective tax rate 27.2% 100.1% Our blended and effective tax rate for the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 decreased significantly as compared to the same period in 201 5 mainly due to: i) the tax holiday granted during third quarter of 2015 to our Argentine subsidiary related to the new software development law that was not recorded in first quarter of 2015, and ii) the one-time loss recorded in our Venezuelan subsidiaries on March 31, 2015 related to the impairment of long-lived assets and the devaluation of the BsF net asset position. The impairment of long-lived assets is non-deductible for tax purposes. We did not record any impairment during the first quarter of 2016. The following table sets forth our effective income tax rate related to our main segments for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Effective tax rate by country Argentina 23.9% 43.0% Brazil 27.5% 26.9% Mexico -18.0% 19.5% Venezuela 3.9% -0.5% The decrease in the effective income tax rate in our Argentine subsidiaries during the three- month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 as compared to the same period in 201 5 , is due to the tax holiday granted during third quarter of 2015 to our Argentine subsidiary related to the new software development law that was not recorded in first quarter of 2015. On August 17, 2011, the Argentine government issued a new software development law and on September 9, 2013 a regulatory decree was issued, which established the new requirements to become a beneficiary of the new software development law. The new decree establishes compliance requirements with annual incremental ratios related to exports of services and research and development expenses that must be achieved to remain within the tax holiday. The Argentine operation will have to achieve certain required ratios annually under the new software development law. During May 2014, we presented all the required documentation in order to apply for the new software development law. On September 17, 2015, the Argentine I ndustry S ecretary issued Reso lution 1041/2015 approving the c ompanys application for eligibility under the new software development law. As a result, our Argentine subsidiary has been granted a tax holiday retroactive from September 18, 2014 for its software developments activities . A portion of the benefits available to beneficiaries of the new law is a relief of 60% of total income tax related to software development activities and a 70% relief in payroll taxes related to software development activities. The increase in our Brazilian effective income tax rate for the three- month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 as compared to the same period in 201 5 was mainly related to temporary differences deducted in the current period. The decrease in our Mexican effective income tax rate for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 as compared with the same period in 2015 is due to the pre-tax loss recorded during 2015 as a result of the devaluation in that country. The foreign exchange loss is a consequence of U.S. dollars liabilities assumed due to business acquisitions. Such loss is non-deductible for tax purposes. 38 Table of Contents For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, our Venezuelan negative effective income tax rate was driven by losses recorded during this period in our Venezuelan subsidiaries related to the impairment of long-lived assets and foreign exchange losses, which generated a net loss before income tax. The impairment of long-lived assets charge is non-deductible for tax purposes. During first quarter of 2016 we did not record any impairment of long-lived assets. We do not expect in the domestic effective income tax rate related to dividend distributions from foreign subsidiaries to have a significant impact on our company since our strategy is to reinvest our cash surplus in our international operations, and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. Segment information (In millions, except for percentages) Three-month Period Ended March 31, 2016 Brazil Argentina Mexico Venezuela Other Countries Total Net revenues $ 77.5 $ 48.2 $ 11.1 $ 12.1 $ 8.7 $ 157.6 Direct costs (50.3) (27.8) (9.4) (5.1) (6.2) (98.8) Direct contribution 27.2 20.4 1.7 7.0 2.5 58.8 Margin 35.1% 42.4% 15.1% 57.6% 28.5% 37.3% Three-month Period Ended March 31, 2015 Brazil Argentina Mexico Venezuela Other Countries Total Net revenues $ 68.5 $ 47.4 $ 9.4 $ 14.0 $ 8.8 $ 148.1 Direct costs (39.7) (24.8) (6.0) (4.2) (5.2) (79.8) Impairment of Long-lived Assets (16.2) (16.2) Direct contribution 28.8 22.6 3.5 (6.5) 3.6 52.1 Margin 42.1% 47.7% 36.7% -46.4% 41.1% 35.2% Change from the Three-month Period Ended March 31, 2015 to March 31, 2016 (*) Brazil Argentina Mexico Venezuela Other Countries Total Net revenues in Dollars $ 9.0 $ 0.8 $ 1.7 $ (1.9) $ (0.1) $ 9.5 in % 13.2% 1.6% 17.8% -13.3% -1.2% 6.4% Direct costs in Dollars $ (10.6) $ (3.0) $ (3.5) $ (0.9) $ (1.0) $ (19.0) in % 26.7% 12.0% 58.1% 22.1% 19.9% 23.8% Impairment of Long-Lived Assets in Dollars $ $ $ $ 16.2 $ $ 16.2 in % 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% -100.0% 0.0% -100.0% Direct contribution in Dollars $ (1.6) $ (2.2) $ (1.8) $ 13.4 $ (1.1) $ 6.7 in % -5.4% -9.7% -51.6% -207.6% -31.5% 13.0% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Net revenues Net revenues for the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 as compared to the same period in 201 5 , are described above in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net revenues. 39 Table of Contents Direct costs and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Brazil For the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 as compared to the same period in 2015, direct costs increased by 26.7%, mainly driven by: i) a 28. 5 % increase in cost of net revenues, mainly attributable to an increase in collection fees as a consequence of higher penetration of our MercadoPago business , sales tax costs, an d salaries and wages; ii ) a 102 . 5 % increase in product and technology development expenses, mainly due to an increase in salaries and wages and higher deprecia tion and amortization expenses and iii) a 29.5% increase in sales and marketing expenses, mainly due to an increase in buyer protection program expenses, online marketing expenses , salaries and wages and other marketing expenses. These increases were partially offset by an 18.7% decrease in general and administrative expenses, mainly attributable to a decrease in legal fees and salar y and wages. Argentina For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 as compared to the same period in 201 5, direct costs increased by 12 . 0 %, mainly driven by: i) a 16 . 8 % increase in cost of net revenues, mainly attributable to an increase in collection fees as a consequence of a higher penetration of MercadoPago , customer support costs and sales taxes; ii) a 213 . 0 % increase in product and technology development expenses, mainly due to an increase in higher depreciation and amortization expenses and iii ) a 3.5 % increase in sales and marketing expenses, mainly due to an increase in buyer protection program expenses, chargeback expenses , bad debt and salaries and wages. These increases were partially offset by a 39.4% decrease in general and administrative expenses . Mexico For the three-month period ended March 3 1, 2016 as compared to the same period in 201 5 , direct costs increased by 58.1 %, mainly driven by: i) a 60 . 1 % increase in sales and marketing expenses, mainly due to increase s in salaries and wages, online marketing expenses, chargeback expenses and higher bu yer protection program expenses; ii) a 66 . 4 % i ncrease in cost of net revenues, mainly attributable to an increase in collection fees due to higher MercadoPa go penetration and other costs; iii) a 154 . 2 % in crease in product and technology deve lopment expenses as a result of increases in salaries and wages and depreciation and amortization expenses and vi) a 24 . 3 % increase in general and administrative expenses, mainly attributable to an increase in salaries and wages . Venezuela F or the three-month period ended March 3 1, 2016 as compared to the same period in 201 5 , direct costs increased by 22.1 %, mainly driven by: i) a 38 . 2% in crease in sales and marketing expenses that was mainly attributable to a n increase in bad debt expenses and chargeback expenses ; ii) a 14 . 0 % increase in cost of net revenues that was mainly attributable to an increase in customer support costs and certain new taxes on payment business and ii i) a 348 . 6 % in crease in product and technology development expenses attributable to a n increase in depreciation and amortization expenses . These increases were partially offset by a 28 . 3% de crease in general and administrative expenses that was mainly attributable to a decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses , which were partially offset by increase s in salaries and wages. These decreases are related to local currency devaluat ion in this country. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign currency translation . Liquidity and Capital Resources Our main cash requirement historically has been working capital to fund MercadoPago financing operations in Brazil. We also require cash for capital expenditures relating to technology infrastructure, software applications, office space, and business acquisitions, to fund the payment of quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock and to fund the interests payments on our Convertible Notes. Since our inception, we have funded our operations primarily through contributions received from our stockholders during the first two years of operations, from funds raised during our initial public offering, and from cash generated from our operations. W e issued on June 30, 2014, $330 million principal balance of Convertible Notes for net proceeds to us of approximately $321.7 million. We have funded MercadoPago by discounting credit card receivables, with loans backed with credit card receivables and through cash advances derived from our business. At March 3 1 , 201 6 , our main source of liquidity, amounting to $3 40 . 5 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and $ 188 . 0 million of long-term investments , was provided by cash generated from operations and from the issuance of the Convertible Notes. We consider our long-term investments as part of our liquidity because long-term investments are comprised of available-for-sale securities classified as long-term as a consequence of their contractual maturities. 40 Table of Contents The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, funds receivable from and payable to MercadoPago users, and short-term debt. As long as we continue transferring credit card receivables to financial institutions in return for cash, we will continue generating cash. As of March 3 1, 2016 cash and investments of foreign subsidiaries amounted to $2 42 . 4 million, or 4 5 . 9 % of our consolidated cash and investments, and approximately 2 7 . 8 % of our consolidated cash and investments were held outside the U.S., mostly in Brazil and Argentina. Our strategy is to reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign operations in those operations and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. We do not expect a material impact in any repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries on our operations since the taxable domestic gains generated by any dividend distributions will be mostly offset with foreign tax credits that arise from income tax paid in our foreign operations, which we are allowed to compute for domestic income tax purposes. In the event we change the way we manage our business, our working capital needs could be funded, as we did in the past, through a combination of the sale of credit card coupons to financial institutions, loans backed by credit card receivables and cash advances from our business. The following table presents our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (*) (In millions) 2016 2015 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (11.8) $ 38.2 Investing activities 0.8 3.3 Financing activities (5.2) (7.5) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (5.8) (37.4) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (22.0) $ (3.4) ( * ) The table above may not total due to rounding. Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities Cash (used in) provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities: Three-month Periods Ended March 31, Change from 2015 to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash (used in) provided by: Operating activities $ (11.8) $ 38.2 $ (50.0) -130.9% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. The $ 50.0 million de crease in net cash provided by operating activities during the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 , as compared to the same period in 20 15, was primarily driven by a $25.0 million decrease in MercadoPago working capital mainly related to lesser discounts of credit card receivables, a $16.0 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses and a $7.8 million decrease in credit card receivables. Net cash provided by investing activities Three-month Periods Ended March 31, Change from 2015 to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash provided by: Investing activities $ 0.8 $ 3.3 $ (2.5) -76.5% 41 Table of Contents (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Net cash provided by investing activities in the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 resulted mainly from purchases of investments of $ 641 . 3 million , which was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments of $ 659 . 3 million, as part of our financial strategy. We used $ 14 . 6 million in the purchase of property plant and equipment (mainly in our Argentine offices and in information technology in Argentina and Brazil), $ 1.8 million to fund the acquisition of Monits S.A. and $0.9 million in advances for property and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities Three-month Periods Ended March 31, Change from 2015 to 2016 (*) 2016 2015 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash used in: Financing activities $ (5.2) $ (7.5) $ 2.3 -30.3% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 , our pri mary use of cash was to fund $4 . 5 million in cash dividends paid on January 15, 201 6 . In addition, we used $ 0.7 million for the payment of financial liabilities. In the event that we decide to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future, we may fund them with available cash, third - party debt financing, or by raising equity capital, as market conditions allow. Debt On June 30, 2014, we issued $330 million of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the Notes). The Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of our Company, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1, at a rate of 2.25% per annum. The Notes will mature on July 1, 2019 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes may be converted, under the conditions specified below, based on an initial conversion rate of 7.9353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $126.02 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the Notes. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to January 1, 2019 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2014 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period (the measurement period) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after January 1, 2019 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. As of March 3 1 , 2 016 , none of the conditions allowing holders of the Notes to convert their notes had been met. Capped C all T ransactions The net proceeds from the Notes were approximately $321.7 million after considering the transaction costs in an amount of $8.3 million. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we paid approximately $19.7 million to enter into capped call transactions with respect to its common stock (the Capped Call Transactions), with certain financial institutions. The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in the event that the market price of our common stock is greater than the strike price of the Capped Call Transactions, initially set at $126.02 per common share, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes and is subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those 42 Table of Contents applicable to the conversion rate of the Notes, and have a cap price of approximately $155. 78 per common share. Therefore, as a result of executing the Capped Call Transactions, we will reduce our exposure to potential dilution once the market price of its common shares exceeds the strike price of $126.02 and up to a ca p price of approximately $155.78 per common share. The Capped Call Transactions allow us to receive shares of our common stock and/or cash related to the excess conversion value that we would pay to the holders of the Notes upon conversion, up to the above mentioned cap price. Office building acquisition agreement s in Caracas During third quarter of 2015, the we through our Venezuelan subsidiary obtained a mortgage loan from Banco del Caribe, C.A. Banco Universal to fund the acquisition of an office building in Caracas, Venezuela of BsF $1,000 million to be paid in monthly installments over five years and which bears a fixed interest rate of 24% per annum. The mortgage was constituted over the offices acquired up to an amount of BsF $2,000 million to cover the amounts due to the bank. As of March 31, 2016, the amount due in relation to the mentioned mortgage loan amounts to BsF $877 million, or $3 million. Cash Dividends In each of February, April, July and October of 2014, our board of directors declared quarterly cash dividends of $7.3 million (or $0.166 per share) on the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock. The dividends were paid on April 15, July 15, October 15, 2014 and January 15, 2015 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 29, June 30, September 30, and December 31, 2014, respectively. In each of February, April, July and November of 2015, our b oard of d irectors declared quarterly cash dividends of $4 .6 million (or $0.103 per share on our outstanding shares of common stock). The dividends were paid on April 16, July 16, October 16, 2015 and January 15, 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31, 2015 , respectively . On February 19, 2016, our board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $6. 6 million (or $0.150 per share) on our outstanding shares of common stock. The first quarterly dividend was paid on April 15, 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, 2016. On May 4, 2016, our board of directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $6. 6 million (or $0.150 per share) on our outstanding shares of common stock. This quarterly cash dividend will be payable on July 15 , 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 30, 2016. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, any future determination as to the declaration of dividends on our common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, operating and financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors, including the applicable requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law . Capital expenditures Our capital expenditures (comprised by our payments for property and equipment, intangible assets and acquired business) for the three -month periods ended March 3 1, 2016 and 2015 amounted to $1 7 . 3 million and $8. 3 million, respectively. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 we invested $ 4 . 8 million in our Brazilian , Colombian and Argentinean offices, and $ 4 . 4 million in Information Technology in Argentina and Brazil. During 2015, our Venezuelan subsidiary acquired five offices under construction, in Caracas, Venezuela for a total purchase price of BsF $4,645.6 million, or $23.4 million, for investment purposes and included in non-current other assets. Our Venezuelan subsidiary paid the purchase price in BsF, and funded the transaction with funds from its own operations and with a mortgage loan amounting to BsF $1,000 million to be paid in monthly installments over five years, and included in current and non-current liabilities under the caption Loans payable and other financial liabilities. The mortgage loan bears a fixed interest rate of 24% per annum. The amount of the loan was BsF $877 million, or $3 million as of March 31, 2016. The offices are expected to be completed in October 2016. On February 12, 2016, through our subsidiaries Meli Participaciones S.L. and Marketplace Investment LLC, we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Monits S.A., a software development company located a nd organized under the laws of Buenos Aires, Argentina , for the purchase price of $3.1 million, measured at its fair value. We believe this acquisition will allow us to enhance our software development capabilities. 43 Table of Contents We are permanently increasing the level of investment on hardware and software licenses necessary to improve and update the technology of our platform and cost of computer software developed internally. We anticipate continued investments in capital expenditures related to information technology in the future as we strive to maintain our position in the Latin American e-commerce market. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including the sale of credit card receivables and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, property and equipment expenditures and to pay or repay obligations going forward. Off-balance sheet arrangements As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Recently issued accounting pronouncements On March 8, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-04. When an entity sells a prepaid stored-value product (such as gift cards, telecommunication cards, and travelers checks), it recognizes a financial liability for its obligation to provide the product holder with the ability to purchase goods or services at a third-party merchant. When a prepaid stored-value product goes unused wholly or partially for an indefinite time period, the amount that remains on the product is referred to as breakage. There currently is diversity in the methodology used to recognize breakage. Subtopic 405-20 includes derecognition guidance for both financial liabilities and nonfinancial liabilities, and Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, includes authoritative breakage guidance but excludes financial liabilities. The amendments in this Update provide a narrow scope exception to the guidance in Subtopic 405-20 to require that breakage be accounted for consistent with the breakage guidance in Topic 606. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement. On March 14, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-06. Topic 815 requires that embedded derivatives be separated from the host contract and accounted for separately as derivatives if certain criteria are met, including the clearly and closely related criterion. The amendments in this Update clarify the requirements for assessing whether contingent call (put) options that can accelerate the payment of principal on debt instruments are clearly and closely related to their debt hosts. An entity performing the assessment under the amendments is required to assess the embedded call (put) options solely in accordance with the four-step decision sequence. The amendments apply to all entities that are issuers of or investors in debt instruments (or hybrid financial instruments that are determined to have a debt host) with embedded call (put) options. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement . On March 15, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-07. To simplify the accounting for equity method investments, the amendments in the Update eliminate the requirement in Topic 323 that an entity retroactively adopt the equity method of accounting if an investment qualifies for use of the equity method as a result of an increase in the level of ownership or degree of influence. The amendments require that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investors previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. The amendments require that the equity method investor add the cost of acquiring the additional interest in the investee to the current basis of the investors previously held interest and adopt the equity method of accounting as of the date the investment becomes qualified for equity method accounting. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement. On March 17, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-08. This update releases Accountin g Standards Update No. 2016-08 - Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net). The amendments in this Update will clarify the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement. On March 30, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-09. The Board is issuing this Update as part of its initiative to reduce complexity in accounting standards. The areas for simplification in this Update involve several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. Some of the areas for simplification apply only to nonpublic entities. In addition, the amendments in this Update eliminate the guidance in Topic 718 that was indefinitely deferred shortly after the issuance of FASB Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment. This Accounting Standards Update is the final version of Proposed Accounting Standards UpdateCompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which has been deleted. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement. 44 Table of Contents On April 14, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-10. This update releases Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-10Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing. This Update clarifies guidance related to identifying performance obligations and licensing implementation guidance contained in the new revenue recognition standard. The Update includes targeted improvements based on input the Board received from the Transition Resource Group for Revenue Recognition and other stakeholders. The Update seeks to proactively address areas in which diversity in practice potentially could arise, as well as to reduce the cost and complexity of applying certain aspects of the guidance both at implementation and on an ongoing basis . We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement. On May 3, 2016 the FASB issued the ASU 2016-11 on Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815). The amendments in this Update eliminate some guidance related to revenue recognition and derivatives. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statement. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we use free cash flows and foreign exchange (FX) neutral measures, adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share as non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures can be found in the tables included in this quarterly report. F ree cash flow provides useful information to both management and investors by excluding payments for the acquisition of property, equipment, of intangible assets net of financial liabilities and of b usinesses net of cash acquired that may not be indicative of our core operating results. In addition, we report free cash flows to investors because we believe that the inclusion of this measure provides consistency in our financial reporting. Free cash flow represents cash from operating activities less payment and advances for the acquisition of property, equipment and intangible assets net of financial liabilities and acquired businesses net of cash acquired. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our operations after the purchases of property, and equipment, of intangible assets and of acquired businesses net of cash acquired. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. The following table shows a r econciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flows : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (In millions) 2016 2015 Net Cash (used in) provided by Operating Activities $ (11.8) $ 38.2 Payment for acquired business, net of cash acquired (1.8) - Advance for property and equipment (0.9) - Purchase of intangible assets - (0.9) Purchase of property and equipment (14.6) (7.3) Free cash flow (29.1) 29.9 45 Table of Contents (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. W e believe that reconciliation of FX neutral measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure provides investors an overall understanding of our current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign currency exchange rate impact that may not be indicative of our core operating results and business outlook. The FX neutral measures were calculated by using the average monthly exchange rates for each month during 201 5 and applying them to the corresponding months in 201 6 , so as to calculate what our results would have been had exchange rates remained stable from one year to the next. The table below excludes intercompany allocation FX effects. Finally, these measures do not include any other macroeconomic effect such as local currency inflation effects or any price adjustment to compensate local currency inflation or devaluations. The following table se ts forth the FX neutral measures related to our reported results of the operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 : Three-months Periods Ended March 31, (*) As reported FX Neutral Measures (In millions, except percentages) 2016 2015 Percentage Change 2016 2015 Percentage Change Net revenues $ 157.6 $ 148.1 6.4% $ 259.2 $ 148.1 75.0% Cost of net revenues (55.4) (44.7) 24.0% (84.4) (44.7) 88.8% Gross profit 102.2 103.4 -1.2% 174.8 103.4 69.0% Operating expenses: (71.7) (61.6) 16.4% (111.4) (61.6) 81.0% Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (16.2) -100.0% (16.2) -100.0% Total operating expenses (71.7) (77.8) -7.9% (111.4) (77.8) 43.2% Income from operations 30.5 25.6 19.1% 63.3 25.6 147.5% (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. Moreover, we believe that adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign exchange loss attributable to the devaluation in Venezuela and the impairment of long-lived assets, because it may not be indicative of the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we report adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share to investors because we believe that the inclusion of these measures provides consistency in the Companys financial reporting and because these financial measures provide useful information to management and investors about what our adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share, would have been, had the foreign exchange loss in Venezuela and the impairment of long-lived assets not occurred. A limitation of the utility of adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share, as measures of financial performance, is that these measures do not represent the total foreign exchange effect in our Income Statement for the three-month periods ended March 31, 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-months periods ended (**) March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Net income before income / asset tax expense $ 37.2 $ 16.4 Devaluation loss in Venezuela 20.4 Impairment of long-lived assets in Venezuela 16.2 Adjusted Net income before income / asset tax expense $ 37.2 $ 53.0 Income and asset tax expense $ (7.0) $ (14.7) Income tax effect on devaluation loss in Venezuela (3.8) (1) Adjusted Income and asset tax $ (7.0) $ (18.5) 46 Table of Contents Net Income $ 30.2 $ 1.7 Devaluation loss in Venezuela 20.4 Impairment of long-lived assets in Venezuela 16.2 Income tax effect on devaluation loss in Venezuela (3.8) (1) Adjusted Net Income $ 30.2 $ 34.6 Weighted average of outstanding common shares 44,156,961 44,154,796 Adjusted Earnings per share $ 0.68 $ 0.78 Adjusted Blended Tax Rate (2) 18.7% 34.8% (**) Stated in millions of U.S. dollars, except for share dat a. The table above may not total due to rounding. (1) Income tax charge related to the Venezuela devaluation under local tax norms. (2) Adjusted Income and asset tax over Adjusted Net income before income / asset tax expense. It em 3 Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risks arising from our business operations. These market risks arise m ainly from the possibility that changes in interest rates and the U.S. dollar exchange rate with local currencies, particularly the Brazilian r eal and Argentine p eso due to Brazils and Argentines respective share of our revenues, may affect the value of our financial assets and liabilities. Foreign currencies As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , we hold cash and cash equivalents in local currencies in our subsidiaries, and have receivables denominated in local currencies in all of our operations. Our subsidiaries generate revenues and incur most of their expenses in the respective local currencies of the countries in which they operate . As a result, our subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency, except for our Venezuelan subsidiaries , which use the U.S. dollar as if it is the functional currency due to Venezuela being a highly inflationary environment . As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , the total cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies totaled $ 85 . 5 million, short-term investments denominated in foreign currencies totaled $ 56 . 9 million and accounts receivable and credit cards receivables in foreign currencies totaled $240 . 8 million. As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , we had no long-term investments denominated in foreign currencies. To manage exchange rate risk, our treasury policy is to transfer most cash and cash equivalents in excess of working capital requirements into U.S. dollar-denominated accounts in the United States. As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , our U.S. dollar-denominated cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $ 198 . 1 million and our U.S. dollar-denominated long-term investments totaled $18 8 . 0 million. For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6 , we had a consolidated gains on foreign currency of $5.1 million primarily as a result of a $5.8 million gain on foreign exchange in our Argentine subsidiary, and partially offset by a foreign exchange loss in Brazil of $0.6 million. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and net income while the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars will have a negative impact in our Statement of Income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses and net income will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, while the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars will have a positive impact in our Statement of Income. The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues by segment for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : Three-months Periods Ended March 31, (% of total consolidated net revenues) (*) 2016 2015 Brazil 49.2 % 46.3 % Argentina 30.6 32.0 Venezuela 7.7 9.4 Mexico 7.1 6.4 Other Countries 5.5 5.9 47 Table of Contents (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts . Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis The table below shows the impact on our net revenues, expenses, other expenses and income tax, net income and equity for a positive and a negative 10% fluctuation on all the foreign currencies to which we are exposed to for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 : Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis (*) (In millions) -10% Actual +10% (1) (2) Net revenues $ 175.1 $ 157.6 $ 143.3 Expenses (140.7) (127.1) (115.3) Income from operations 34.4 30.5 28.0 Other expenses and income tax related to P&L items (5.7) (5.4) (5.2) Foreign Currency impact related to the remeasurement of our Net Asset position 5.7 5.1 4.7 Net income 34.5 30.2 27.6 Total Shareholders' Equity $ 333.3 $ 353.1 $ 312.7 (1) Appreciation of the subsidiaries local currency against U.S. Dollar (2) Depreciation of the subsidiaries local currency against U.S. Dollar (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. The table above shows an increase in our net income w hen the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies because the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars has a lesser impact than the increase in our net revenues, operating expenses, and other expenses, net and income tax lines related to the translation effect. Similarly, the table above shows a decrease in our net income when the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies because the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars has a lesser impact than the decrease in our net revenues, operating expenses, and other expenses, net and income tax lines related to the translation effect. In the past we have entered into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure; however, during the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 6, we did not enter into any such hedging transactions. Venezuelan Segment In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary since January 1, 2010 , using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for purposes of reporting our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect has been accounted for in other comprehensive income related to our Venezuelan operations. As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , monetary assets and liabilities in BsF were re-measured to the U.S. dollar using the SIMADI closing exchange rate of 273 BsF per U.S. dollar . The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of the our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations of a net liability of $29.2 million and $ 24.6 million , as of March 3 1 , 201 6 and December 31, 201 5, respectively and net revenues for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 6 and 201 5 : March 31, 2016 2015 Venezuelan operations (In millions) Net Revenues $ 12.1 $ 14.0 March 31, December 31, 2016 2015 48 Table of Contents (In millions) Assets 72.0 65.4 Liabilities (39.8) (36.3) Net Assets $ 32.2 $ 29.1 As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , the net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries amount ed to approximately 9 . 1% of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiaries held in local currency in Venez uela amounted to approximately 2.0 % of our consolidated cash and investments. O n Februa ry 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government issued a decree that unified the two previous foreign exchange systems SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a new single system denominated SICAD, with an initial public foreign exchange rate of 12 BsF per U.S. dollar. The SICAD auction process remains available only to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which does not include those relating to the Companys business. In the same decree the Venezuelan government created the Sistema Marginal de Divisas (SIMADI), a new foreign exchange system that is separate from SICAD, which publishes a foreign exchange rate from the BCV on a daily basis. In light of the disappearance of SICAD 2, and we inability to gain access to U.S. dollars through the new single system under SICAD, we started requesting and was granted U.S. dollars through SIMADI. As a result, we from that moment expected to settle its transactions through SIMADI and concluded that the SIMADI exchange rate should be used to re-measure its bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to re-measure the revenues and expenses of the Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of March 31, 2015. In connection with this re-measurement, we reco rded a foreign exchange loss of $20.4 million during the first quarter of 2015. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows then expected from the Venezuelan business, we reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of March 31, 2015 would not be fully recoverable. As a result, we recorded an impai rment of long-lived assets of $ 16.2 million on March 31, 2015. The carrying amount was adjusted to its estimated fair value as of March 31, 2015, by using the market approach, and considering prices for similar assets. On March 9, 2016 the Central Bank of Venezuela ( BCV ) issued the Exchange Agreement No.35, which is effective as from March 10, 2016. The agreement established a protected exchange rate ( DIPRO ) for certain transactions, such as but not limited to: imports of goods of the food and health sectors, as well as supplies associated with the production of said sectors; expenses relating to health treatments, sports, culture, scientific research, and other urgent matters defined by the exchange regulations. All foreign currency transactions not expressly provided in Exchange Agreement No.35 will be processed on the alternate foreign currency markets governed by the exchange regulations, at the floating supplementary market exchange rate ( DICOM ). Additionally, the agreement established that the alternate foreign currency markets referred to in Exchange Agreement No.33 of February 10, 2015 (SIMADI) will continue until replaced by others. As of the date of this report, the SIMADI has not been replaced and for that reason, we continued using SIMADI. As of March 3 1, and May 4, 201 6, the SIMADI exchange rate was 273 and 397 BsF per U.S. dollar , respectively . Until 2010 we were able to obtain U.S. dollars for any purpose, including dividend distributions, using alternative mechanisms other than through the Commission for the Administration of Foreign Exchange Control (CADIVI). Those U.S. dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Our Venezuelan subsidiaries have not requested authorization since 2012 to acquire U.S. dollars to make dividend distributions and we have not distributed dividends from our Venezuelan subsidiaries since 2011 . Although the current mechanisms available to obtain U.S. dollars for dividend distributions to shareholders outside of Venezuela imply increased restrictions, we do not expect that the current restrictions to purchase U.S. dollars will have a significant adverse effect on our business strategy with regard to the investment in Venezuela. In order to assist investors in their overall understanding of the impact on our Venezuelan segment reporting, we developed a scenario that considers a 4 00% additional devaluation over the SIMADI rate as of the date of this report, applied for the period starting on January 1, 2016 to March 31, 2016 . These disclosures may help investors to project sensitivities, on segment information captions, to devaluations of whatever order of magnitude they choose by simple arithmetic calculations. The information is just a scenario and does not represent a forward-looking statement about our expectations or projections related to future events in Venezuela. The investors and other readers or users of the financial information presented in this caption are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this scenario. This information is not a guarantee of future events. The information disclosed below does not include any inflation effect, nor the devaluation impact related to the assumed devaluation or any other effect derived from the assumed devaluation. The information below should not be considered in 49 Table of Contents isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this information is not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. The evolution of the Venezuelan economy and any future governmental interventions in the Venezuelan economy are beyond our ability to control or predict. New events could happen in the future in Venezuela and it is not possible for management to predict all such events, nor can it assess the impact of all such events on our Venezuelan business. The table below provides specific sensitivity information of our Venezuelan segment reporting for the period indicated assuming approximately a 400% additional devaluation over the SIMADI rate as of the date of this report, applied for the period starting on January 1, 2016 to March 31, 2016 : Three-month period ended March 31, 2016 Actual (*) Sensitivity (**) (In million) Net revenues $12.1 $2.3 Direct costs (5.1) (1.9) Direct contribution $7.0 $ .4 Direct Contribution Margin before impairment % 57.6% 17.4% (*) As reported. (**) Computing a hypothetical devaluation of the Venezu elan segment from January 1 to March 3 1 , 201 6 assuming an exchange rate of 1,091 .6 5 BsF per U.S. dollar (400% of the exchange rate as of March 3 1 , 201 6 ). Despite the continued uncertainty and restrictions relating to foreign currency exchange in Venezuela as described above, we believe that our underlying business in that country is competitively well-positioned and continues to exhibit solid growth, in terms of units sold, even while economic conditions in the Venezuelan economy remain difficult. As economic conditions in that country improve, we expect that our business in Venezuela will benefit accordingly. Although in May 2014 and March 2015 we experienced a strong devaluation of our business in Venezuela, we cannot assure you that the BsF will not experience further devaluations or that the Venezuelan government will not default on its obligations to creditors in the future, which may be significant and could have a material negative impact on our future financial results of our Venezuela segment and value of our bolivar denominated net assets. However, for the reasons stated at the beginning of this paragraph, we remain strongly committed to our business and investment in Venezuela. Argentine Segment During December 2015 the Argentine peso exchange rate increased by approximately 37% against the U.S. dollar, to 13.30 Argentine pesos per U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2015. Due to such increase in the Argentine peso exchange rate against the U.S. dollar, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized a foreign exchange gain of $18.2 million (as a result of having a net asset position in U.S. dollars) and the reported Other Comprehensive Loss increased by $22.8 million (as a result of having a net asset position in Argentine pesos). As of March 31 , 2016 the Argentine Peso exchange rate against the U.S. dollar was 1 4 . 8 . In Argentina , access to the local foreign exchange market without requiring prior Central Bank approval is allowed for all of the following: real estate investments abroad, loans granted to non-Argentine residents, Argentine residents contributions of direct investments abroad, portfolio investment of Argentine individuals abroad, certain other investments abroad of Argentine residents, portfolio investments of Argentine legal entities abroad, purchase of foreign currency bills to be held in Argentina, as well as purchase of traveler checks. The total amount of foreign currency purchased for all the above mentioned items cannot exceed $2.0 million per month in the aggregate. Had a hypothetical devaluation of 20% of the Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar occurred on March 3 1 , 201 6 , the reported net assets in our Argentine subsidiaries would have decreased by approximately $ 12.7 million with a related impact on Other Comprehensive Income. Additionally, we would have recorded a foreign exchange gain amounting to approximately $ 10 . 2 million in our Argentine subsidiaries. Brazilian Segment During 2015, the Brazilian real exchange rate against the U.S. dollar increased in approximately 47%, from 2.66 Brazilian Reais per U.S.dollar as of December 31, 2014 to 3.90 Brazilian Reais per U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2015. Due to the abovementioned devaluation, during the year ended December 31, 2015, the reported Other Comprehensive Loss of the Brazilian 50 Table of Contents segment increased in $9.0 million as a result of having a net asset position in Brazilian Reais; and we recognized a foreign exchange gain of $14.6 million during the same period. As of March 31 , 2016 the Brazilian Reais exchange rate against the U.S. dollar was 3 . 56 . Had a hypothetical devaluation of 20% of the Brazilian Reais against the U.S. dollar occurred on March 3 1 , 201 6 , the reported net assets in our Brazilian subsidiaries would have decreased by approximately $ 7.1 million with the related impact in Other Comprehensive Income. Additionally, we would have recorded a foreign exchange gain amounting to approximately $ 0.9 million in our Brazilian subsidiaries. Interest Our earnings and cash flows are also affected by changes in interest rates. These changes could have an impact on the interest rates that financial institutions charge us prior to the time we sell our MercadoPago receivables. As of March 3 1, 2016 , MercadoPagos funds receivable from customers totaled $ 193 . 7 million. Interest rate fluctuations could also negatively affect certain of our fixed rate and floating rate investments comprised primarily of time deposits, money market funds, investment grade corporate debt secur ities and sovereign debt securities. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning products carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , the average duration of our available for sale securities, defined as the approximate percentage change in price for a 100-basis-point change in yield, was 1. 32 %. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the fair market value of our available for sale securities as of Mach 3 1 , 201 6 could decrease (increase) by approximately $4. 6 million. As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , our short-term investments amounted to $ 195 . 6 million and our long-term investments amounted to $ 188 . 0 million . These investments can be readily converted at any time into cash or into securities with a shorter remaining time to maturity. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments at the time of purchase and re-evaluate such designations as of each balance sheet date. Equity Price Risk Our board of directors adopted the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 long-term retention plan (the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 LTRP, respectively) payable as follows: eligible employees will receive a fixed payment equal to 6.25% of his or her 2009 and/or 2010 and/or 2011 and/or 2012 LTRP bonus once a year for a period of eight years starting in 2010 and/or 2011 and/or 2012 and/or 2013 (the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Annual Fixed Payment, respectively ); and on each date we pay the Annual Fixed Payment to an eligible employee, he or she will also receive a payment (the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Variable Payment, respectively) equal to the product of (i) 6.25% of the applicable 2009 and/or 2010 and/or 2011 and/or 2012 LTRP bonus and (ii) the quotient of (a) divided by (b), where (a), the numerator, equals the Applicable Year Stock Price (as defined below) and (b), the denominator, equals the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 Stock Price, defined as $13.81, $45.75, $65.41 and $77.77 for the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 LTRP, respectively, which was the average closing price of the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The Applicable Year Stock Price equals the average closing price of the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of the year preceding the applicable payment date. The 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 variable payment LTRP liability subjects us to equity price risk. In May 2013 our board of directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved certain amendments to the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Long-Term Retention Plans (the Amended LTRPs), to give us (through the approval of the Compensation Committee) the option to pay the compensation due under the Amended LTRPs in cash, common stock or a combination thereof. We have granted the right to any Amended LTRP participant to request settlement in cash. The Amended LTRPs have been considered to be a substantive liability and classified accordingly in the balance sheet. On September 27, 2013, our board of directors, upon the recommendation of the compensation committee, approved the 2013 Long Term R etention Plan (the 2013 LTRP), o n March 31, 2014, the board of d irectors, upon the recommendation of the c ompensation c ommittee approved the 2014 employee retention programs ( the 2014 LTRP) and on August 4, 2015, the board of directors, upon the recommendation of the compensation committee approved the 2015 employee retention programs (the 2015 51 Table of Contents LTRP) . If earned, payments to eligible employees under the 2013 , 2014 and 2015 LTRP will be in addition to payments of base salary and cash bonus, the latter if earned, made to those employees. The awards under 2013 , 2014 and/or 2015 LTRP are payable in cash, common stock or a combination thereof and, as we mentioned in the paragraph before for the others LTRP, we granted the right to any LTRP participant to request settlement in cash. In order to receive an award under the 2013 , 2014 and/or 201 5 LTRP, each eligible employee must satisfy the performance conditions established by the board of directors for such employee. If these conditions are satisfied, the eligible employee will, subject to his or her continued employment as of each applicable payment date, receive the full amount of his or her 2013 , 2014 and/or 201 5 LTRP bonus, payable as follows: the eligible employee will receive a fixed payment, equal to 8.333% of his or her 2013, 2014 and/or 2015 LTRP bonus once a year for a period of six years starting in March 2014, 2015 and/or 2016 (the 2013, 2014 and 2015 Annual Fixed Payment, respectively); and on each date we pay the Annual Fixed Payment to an eligible employee, he or she will also receive a payment (the Variable Payment) equal to the product of (i) 8.333% of the applicable 2013, 2014 and/or 2015 LTRP bonus and (ii) the quotient of (a) divided by (b), where (a), the numerator, equals the Applicable Year Stock Price (as defined below) and (b), the denominator, equals the 2012, 2013 and 2014 Stock Price, d efined as $79.57, $118.48 and $127.29 for the 2013, 2014 and 2015 LTRP, respectively, which was the average closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 respectively. The Applicable Year Stock Price shall equal the average closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of the year preceding the applicable payment date. At March 3 1 , 201 6 , the total contractual obligation of our 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 , 2014 and 2015 Variable Payment LTRP liability amounted to $ 21 . 4 million . As of March 3 1 , 201 6 , the accrued liability related to t he 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 Variable Payment p ortion of the LTRP included in s ocial security payable in our condensed consolidated balance sheet amounted to $ 19 . 8 million. The following table shows a sensitivity analysis of the risk associated with our contractual obligation related to the 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2 013, 2014 and 2015 Variable Payment if our common stock price per share were to experience increases or decreases by up to 40%: As of March 31, 2016 MercadoLibre, Inc 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 Equity Price variable LTRP liability (In thousands, except equity price) Change in equity price in percentage 40% 144.81 29,898 30% 134.46 27,762 20% 124.12 25,627 10% 113.78 23,491 Static (*) 103.43 21,356 -10% 93.09 19,220 -20% 82.75 17,084 -30% 72.40 14,949 -40% 62.06 12,813 (*) Average closing stock price for the last 60 trading days of the closing date. It em 4