Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements regarding our future performance made or implied in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, estimate, target, project, should, may, could, will and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally relate to information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, the effects of future regulation and the effects of competition. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans, projections and strategies, anticipated financial results, future events and financial trends affecting our business, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors (in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report) that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; government regulation; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America in general, and Venezuela and Argentina in particular, including Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy and new exchange rate system. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and uncertainties (in addition to those referred to above and elsewhere in this report) that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2012 and in other reports we file from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 31 Table of Contents You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report, our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them to be material that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations has been organized to present the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, a discussion of our capital expenditures and a description of our contractual obligations; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Business Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the company) hosts the largest online commerce platform in Latin America located at www.mercadolibre.com, which is focused on enabling e-commerce and its related services. Our services are designed to provide our users with mechanisms for buying, selling, paying, collecting, generating leads and comparing transactions via e-commerce in an effective and efficient manner. We are market leaders in e-commerce in each of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, based on unique visitors and page views. Additionally, we also operate online commerce platforms in the Dominican Republic, Panama and Portugal. Through our online commerce platform, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust online commerce environment that fosters the development of a large and growing e-commerce community in Latin America, a region with a population of over 550 million people and one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates in the world. We believe that we offer a technological and commercial solution that addresses the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America. We offer our users an eco-system of four related e-commerce services: the MercadoLibre Marketplace, the MercadoPago payments solution, the MercadoClics advertising program and the MercadoShops on-line stores solution. The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our marketplace, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list items and conduct their sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. Additionally, through online classified listings, our registered users can list and purchase motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, real estate and services. Any Internet user can browse through the various products and services that are listed on our web site and register with MercadoLibre to list, bid for and purchase items and services. To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online payments solution. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off the MercadoLibre Marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely, easily and promptly send, receive and finance payments online. As a further enhancement to the MercadoLibre Marketplace, in 2009, we launched our MercadoClics program to allow businesses to promote their products and services on the Internet. Through MercadoClics users and advertisers are able to place display and/or text advertisements on our web pages in order to promote their brands and offerings. MercadoClics offers advertisers a cost efficient and automated platform through which it will acquire traffic. Advertisers purchase, on a cost per clicks basis, advertising space that appears around product search results for specific categories and other pages. These advertising placements are clearly differentiated from product search results and direct traffic both to and off our platform based on the advertisers destination of choice. 32 Table of Contents To close out our suite of e-commerce services during 2010, we launched, the MercadoShops on-line stores solution. Through MercadoShops users can set-up, manage and promote their own on-line webstores. These webstores are hosted by MercadoLibre and offer integration with the other marketplace, payments and advertising services we offer. Users can choose from a basic, free webstore or pay monthly subscriptions for enhanced functionality and added services on their stores. Reporting Segments Our segment reporting is based on geographic areas, which is the current criteria we are using to evaluate our segment performance. Our geography segments include Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (such as Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Uruguay). In addition, we operate a real estate classifieds platform that covers some areas of Florida in the United States, the operations of which are included in our segment for other countries. Description of line items Net revenues We recognize revenues in each of our five reporting segments. Our reporting segments include our operations in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Uruguay). We offer three types of up-front fees for three different combinations of placement and features. Up-front fees are charged at the time the listing is uploaded onto our platform and are not subject to successful sale of the items listed. Following this fee structure modification, revenues from MercadoLibre Marketplace transactions are now generated by: up front fees; final value fees; and online advertising fees. Our MercadoPago payments processing service is offered at no extra cost on our marketplace in all countries where we have upgraded our payments platform to its new and improved version (MP3). Our payments platform was upgraded in Brazil and Argentina before 2011, while Mexico and Venezuela were upgraded in the second and fourth quarter of 2011, respectively. Coinciding with the rollout of our new payments platform, MercadoPago becomes an obligatory payments option on all marketplace listings that are not free in all of the above countries except for Venezuela. As a result of the aforementioned changes, we no longer charge a specific processing fee for the use of MercadoPago on our marketplace as we did in the past. We do, however, continue to generate payment related revenues, reported within each of our reporting segments, attributable to: commissions charged to sellers for the use of the MercadoPago platform on transactions that occur outside of our marketplace platform; revenues from a financing markup charged when a buyer elects to pay in installments through our MercadoPago platform, for transactions that occur on or off of our marketplace platform. 33 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues by segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: Three-Month Period Ended March 31, (% of total consolidated net revenues) 2012 2011 Brazil 50.4 % 56.5 % Argentina 21.6 17.2 Venezuela 13.4 11.0 Mexico 7.9 8.5 Other Countries 6.7 6.8 (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. The following table summarizes the changes in net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: Three Month Period Ended Change from 2011 March 31, to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 42.2 $ 34.7 $ 7.5 21.4 % Argentina 18.1 10.6 7.5 71.2 Venezuela 11.2 6.8 4.5 66.0 Mexico 6.6 5.2 1.3 25.8 Other Countries 5.6 4.2 1.5 35.6 Total Net Revenues $ 83.7 $ 61.5 $ 22.3 36.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, no single customer accounted for more than 5.0% of our net revenues. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in thirteen countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and Venezuela), and MercadoPago is available in six countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela). The functional currency for each countrys operations is the countrys local currency, except for Venezuela where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar due to Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign Currency Translation included in this report. Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the average monthly exchange rate. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as a cost of net revenues. These taxes represented 6.5% and 7.3% of net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012. Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, certain taxes on revenues, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization and hosting and site operation fees. Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, telecommunications costs and payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to our company. 34 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing costs for our platforms through online and offline advertising, bad debt charges, chargebacks related to MercadoPago operation, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs. We carry out the vast majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. In that context, we enter in agreements with portals, search engines, social networks, ad networks and other sites in order to attract Internet users to the MercadoLibre Marketplace and convert them into confirmed registered users and active traders on our platform. Additionally, we allocate a portion of our marketing budget to cable television advertising in order to improve our brand awareness and to complement our online efforts. We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our supply efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers, through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform. General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. General and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas of our company: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources. Other income (expenses) Other income (expenses) consists primarily of interest income derived from our investments and cash equivalents, foreign currency gains or losses, and other non-operating results. Income and asset tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes and asset taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change during the period in our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. You should read the following descriptions of critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and other disclosures included in this report. Foreign Currency Translation Historically, all of our foreign operations have used the local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, these foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using period/year-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the period. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency loss. Until September 30, 2009, our Venezuelan subsidiaries assets, liabilities, income and expenses were translated at the official exchange rate of 2.15 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar. 35 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to use the parallel exchange rate (as described below) rather than the official exchange rate to translate our Venezuelan financial statements. The following facts and circumstances have been considered in our analysis of the applicable exchange rate: At the date we changed the translation exchange rate (and as of the date of this report), we have not obtained dividends remittances at the official exchange rate (and we have not as of the date of this report); The industry in which we operate may not influence our ability to access to the official exchange rate; The Commission for the Administration of Foreign Exchange (CADIVI) volume of approvals of the use of the Official Rate was down 50% on a year-to-year basis as of July 2009; and CADIVI has not only delayed approvals but also removed many items from priority lists (current priorities appear to be food and medicine), causing delays in the repatriation of dividends for many companies. Consequently, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we translated our Venezuelan subsidiaries assets, liabilities, income and expense accounts using the parallel exchange rate. As of the date of this report the Company did not buy dollars at the CADIVI official rate. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary as of January 1, 2010 considering as if the US dollar was the functional currency for purposes of our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect was accounted for in other comprehensive income since October 1, 2009 related to our Venezuelan operations. On May 14th, 2010, the Venezuelan government enacted reforms to its exchange regulations making the Venezuelan Central Bank (BCV) the only institution that could legally authorize the purchase or sale of foreign currency bonds, thereby excluding non-authorized brokers from the foreign exchange market. Under the new system, known as the Foreign Currency Securities Transactions System (SITME), entities domiciled in Venezuela can buy U.S. dollar-denominated securities only through banks authorized by the BCV to import goods, services or capital inputs. Additionally, the SITME imposes volume restrictions on an entitys trading activity, limiting such activity to a maximum equivalent of $50,000 per day, not to exceed $350,000 in a calendar month. This limitation is non-cumulative, meaning that an entity cannot carry over unused volume from one month to the next. As a consequence of this new system, we started using the SITME rate and started re-measuring foreign currency transactions using the SITME rate published by BCV. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, the exchange rate used to re-measure transactions was 5.30 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar. During 2010 and previous years we were able to obtain U.S. dollars using alternative mechanisms other than the CADIVI. These dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI, and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. As a result, during 2010, lack of CADIVI approval did not restrict our ability to distribute the full amount of our Venezuelan retained earnings as dividends related to fiscal years 2008 ($0.8 million), and 2009 ($1.8 million). In addition, during 2011, our Venezuelan subsidiaries distributed dividends of a $4.2 million, related to earnings for fiscal year 2010, using existing cash balances held in the U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations, as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011. March 31, March 31, 2012 2011 Venezuelan operations Net Revenues $ 11,241,572 $ 6,770,453 March 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Assets 33,729,830 31,074,871 Liabilities (9,941,851 ) (10,414,881 ) Net Assets $ 23,787,979 $ 20,659,990 36 Table of Contents Net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries amount to approximately 10.0% of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiaries held in local currency in Venezuela amount to approximately 8.6% of our consolidated cash and investments. On June 2, 2011, our Venezuelan subsidiary acquired an office property containing 992 square meters in a building located in Caracas, Venezuela for approximately $6.6 million. The Company funded the purchase price through working capital. Although the current mechanisms available to obtain U.S. dollars for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries to those subsidiaries of our company that are located outside Venezuela imply increased restrictions, we do not expect that the current restrictions on purchasing U.S. dollars will have a significant adverse effect on our business plans or with regard to our investment in Venezuela. Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired on this basis, the impairment loss to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill or indefinite useful life intangible assets are considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. No impairments were recognized during the reporting periods and managements assessment of each reporting units fair value materially exceeds its carrying value. Goodwill and certain indefinite life trademarks are reviewed at the end of the year for impairment or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill and certain trademarks are tested at the reporting unit level (considering each segment of the Company as a reporting unit) by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill and certain trademarks, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The Company adopted the new guidance to test goodwill and, as a consequence, performs a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit. If the Company determines, on the basis of qualitative factors, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, the fair-value based test is applied. For the year ended December 31, 2011, based on the qualitative assessment, the Company determined that the fair value of all the reporting units was greater than the carrying amount. We believe that the accounting estimate related to impairment of long lived assets and goodwill is critical since it is highly susceptible to change from period to period because: (i) it requires management to make assumptions about gross merchandise volume growth, future interest rates, sales and costs; and (ii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as our net income would be material. Managements assumptions about future sales and future costs require significant judgment. Allowances for doubtful accounts and chargebacks We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers. Allowances for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. The allowance for doubtful accounts and chargebacks is recorded as a charge to sales and marketing expenses. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future adverse changes to our historical experience for doubtful accounts and chargebacks could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows. We believe that the accounting estimate related to allowances for doubtful accounts and chargebacks is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment. Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances and historical information related to actions filed against the Company at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 1 of Part II of this report, Item 3 of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for our most recently completed fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in Note 8 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we will defend ourselves accordingly. However, even if successful, our defense could be costly and could divert managements time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay damages or modify our business practices. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 37 Table of Contents Income taxes We are required to recognize a provision for income taxes based upon taxable income and temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable under currently enacted tax laws in each jurisdiction and an analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals, allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets and liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We also assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of deferred tax asset will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. At March 31, 2012, we had a valuation allowance on certain foreign net operating losses based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our Income/asset tax expense line in our condensed consolidated statement of income. Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 compared to three-month period ended March 31, 2011. The selected financial data for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 have been derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. These statements include all normal recurring adjustments that management believes are necessary to fairly state our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year ending December 31, 2012 or for any other period. 38 Table of Contents Statement of income data Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2012 (*) 2011 (*) (Unaudited) Net revenues $ 83.7 $ 61.5 Cost of net revenues (21.1 ) (14.3 ) Gross profit 62.6 47.1 Operating expenses: Product and technology development (7.6 ) (5.2 ) Sales and marketing (17.4 ) (13.2 ) General and administrative (12.7 ) (9.5 ) Total operating expenses (37.7 ) (27.8 ) Income from operations 24.9 19.3 Other income (expenses): Interest income and other financial gains 3.1 1.9 Interest expense and other financial charges (0.1 ) (0.6 ) Foreign currency gains / losses (1.0 ) (0.5 ) Other income, net (0.0 ) 0.0 Net income before income / asset tax expense 26.9 20.1 Income / asset tax expense (7.3 ) (6.0 ) Net income $ 19.6 $ 14.1 Less: Net Income attributable to Noncontrolli .0 Net income available to common shareholders $ 19.6 $ 14.1 (*) The table above may not add due to rounding. Other Data Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2012 2011 Number of confirmed registered users at end of the period 1 69.5 55.6 Number of confirmed new registered users during the period 2 3.6 2.7 Gross merchandise volume 3 1,321.7 954.0 Number of items sold 4 15.0 10.9 Total payment volume 5 370.1 245.2 Total payment transactions 6 4.9 2.6 Capital expenditures 3.7 3.0 Depreciation and amortization 2.0 1.5 1- Measure of the cumulative number of users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. 2- Measure of the number of new users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. 3- Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions completed through the MercadoLibre Marketplace, excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate. 4- Measure of the number of items that were sold/purchased through the MercadoLibre Marketplace. 5- Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. 6- Measure of the number of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. 39 Table of Contents Net revenues Three Month Period Ended Change from 2011 to March 31, 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total Net Revenues $ 83.7 $ 61.5 $ 22.3 36.2 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 100.0 % 100.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. The 36.2% growth in net revenues from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012 resulted principally from a 38.6% increase in the gross merchandise volume (GMV) transacted through our platform from first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012. This GMV growth resulted from a 38.1% increase in items sold between those periods. Additionally, non-marketplace revenues from financing and off-platform payments grew 38% from the first quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of 2012, mainly as a consequence of a 50.9% increase in the total payments volume (TPV) paid using MercadoPago. Finally, classified and ad sales revenues for the first quarter of 2012 grew 43.4% over the first quarter of 2011. Measured in local currencies, net revenues grew 43.6% during the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period a year earlier. The local currency revenue growth was calculated by using the average monthly exchange rates for each month during 2011 and applying them to the corresponding months in 2012, so as to calculate what our financial results would have been had exchange rates remained stable from one year to the next. The following table summarizes the changes in net revenues by each reporting segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: Three Month Period Ended Change from 2011 March 31, to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 42.2 $ 34.7 $ 7.5 21.4 % Argentina 18.1 10.6 7.5 71.2 Venezuela 11.2 6.8 4.5 66.0 Mexico 6.6 5.2 1.3 25.8 Other Countries 5.6 4.2 1.5 35.6 Total Net Revenues $ 83.7 $ 61.5 $ 22.3 36.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. On a segment basis, our net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same periods in 2011, increased across all segments. 40 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly growth/contraction of these net revenues for the periods described below: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (in millions, except percentages) (*) 2012 Net Revenues $ 83.7 n/a n/a n/a Percent change from prior quarter -3 % 2011 Net Revenues $ 61.5 $ 69.4 $ 81.6 $ 86.5 Percent change from prior quarter -1 % 13 % 18 % 6 % 2010 Net Revenues $ 45.9 $ 52.5 $ 56.0 $ 62.3 Percent change from prior quarter -6 % 14 % 7 % 11 % 2009 Net Revenues $ 32.3 $ 40.9 $ 50.6 $ 49.0 Percent change from prior quarter -3 % 27 % 24 % -3 % 2008 Net Revenues $ 28.8 $ 34.5 $ 40.3 $ 33.4 Percent change from prior quarter 7 % 20 % 17 % -17 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. Cost of net revenues Three-Month Period Ended Change from 2011 to March 31, 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total cost of net revenues $ 21.1 $ 14.3 $ 6.8 47.2 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 25.2 % 23.3 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, the increase in cost of net revenues as compared to the same period of 2011 was primarily attributable to a $3.1 million increase in collection fees. The increase in collection fees, which occurred primarily in Brazil and Argentina, was a result of the higher penetration of our Payment solution into our Marketplace, which has a higher collection fee cost. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, 29.7% and 27.4%, respectively, of our total gross merchandise volume (excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate) was completed through MercadoPago. In addition, sales taxes on our net revenues increased by $1.0 million, or 22.2% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period of 2011 mainly as a consequence of increases in net revenues. Moreover, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year, expenditures related to our in-house customer support operations increased by $1.5 million primarily driven by an increase in compensation costs and recruitment. The increased compensation costs and recruitment are incurred in order to improve our service and our initiatives to combat fraud, illegal items and fee evasion. Finally, for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the same period of the previous year, bank transfer fees related to MercadoPago, mainly in Brazil, increased by $0.3 million. 41 Table of Contents Product and technology development Three-Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Product and technology development $ 7.6 $ 5.2 $ 2.4 59.4 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 9.1 % 8.4 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, the growth in product and technology development expenses for $2.4 million as compared to the same period in 2011, was primarily attributable to an increase of $1.2 million, or 46.7%, in compensation costs. These additional compensation expenses were primarily related to increases in compensation costs and to the addition of engineers, as we continue to invest in top quality talent to develop enhancements and new features across our platforms. We believe product development is one of our key competitive advantages and intend to continue to invest in adding engineers to meet the increasingly sophisticated product expectations of our customer base. Product and technology development expenses also grew during the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as a consequence of a $0.5 million increase in maintenance expenses related to the use of cloud computing (AWS), IT consulting fees, real-time monitoring of our applications and the use of content distribution network (CDN) which is a system of computers containing copies of data placed at various nodes of a network. In addition, product and technology expenses also grew as a consequence of increases in depreciation and amortization expense of $0.3 million or 26.9% and increases in other product and development expenses of $0.3 million compared to the same period in 2011. Sales and marketing Three-Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 17.4 $ 13.2 $ 4.2 32.7 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 20.8 % 21.5 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, the increase in sales and marketing expenses when compared to the same period in 2011 was primarily attributable to an increase of $3.2 million in other marketing expenses in 2012 as compared to the same period of the previous year. This increase was mainly due to chargebacks related to MercadoPago in Brazil. In addition, a $0.5 million increase in compensation costs driven by higher salaries to retain talent, and a $1.0 million increase in bad debt charges in the 2012 period also contributed to the increase in sales and marketing expenses during the period. Bad debt charges for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 represented 6.0% of net revenues versus 6.5% for the same period in 2011. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 was partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in our online advertising expenses related to our affiliate program, as we have optimized investment allocation over the same period ended March 31, 2011. Online advertising, including our affiliate program and portal deals expenses, represented 4.7% of our net revenues in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, down from 6.2% for the same period in 2011. 42 Table of Contents General and administrative Three-Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 12.7 $ 9.5 $ 3.2 34.3 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 15.2 % 15.4 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, the increase in general and administrative expenses as compared to the same period of 2011, was primarily attributable to a $1.7 million increase in compensation costs in the 2012 period related to our long term retention plans and increases in salaries to retain talent and a $0.8 million increase in outside services mainly related to legal fees. Those increases were partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in office expenses and other general and administrative expenses such as travel & accommodation and communication expenses. In addition, the increase in general and administrative expenses for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period of 2011 was, in part, a consequence of $0.9 million of expenses related to certain checks for tax payments made by our Venezuelan subsidiary that were not collected by the National Tax and Customs Administration of Venezuela (SENIAT) as a consequence of administrative errors made by the clearing bank. As a result, the Venezuelan subsidiary paid to SENIAT taxes owed and filed a claim related to the issue. Other income (expenses) Three-Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Other income (expenses) $ 2.0 $ 0.8 $ 1.2 158.2 % As a percentage of net revenues 2.4 % 1.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011, the increase in other income (expense) was primarily a result of a $1.2 million increase in interest income and other financial gains related to higher interest income earned on our investments driven by a greater volume of investments in all locations and higher interest rates in all locations except in Brazil. In addition, the $0.6 million decrease in financial expenses was substantially offset by a $0.5 million increase in foreign currency losses mainly attributable to the impact of the local currency appreciation on the cash balances held by our Brazilian and Mexican subsidiaries in U.S. dollars during the first quarter of 2012 versus a lesser appreciation of the local currencies against U.S. dollars in the first quarter of 2011. Income and asset tax Three-Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Income and asset tax $ 7.3 $ 6.0 $ 1.3 21.2 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 8.7 % 9.8 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. 43 Table of Contents During the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in previous year, income and asset tax increased $1.3 million as a consequence of higher taxable income period over period. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, our income and asset tax expense margin was lower as compared to the same period in the previous year, because in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 our income and asset tax expense margin was positively impacted by decreases in income tax charge in Brazil as a consequence of permanent tax differences period over period. Our blended tax rate is defined as income and asset tax expense as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. Our effective income tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes (net of charges related to dividend distribution from foreign subsidiaries which are offset with domestic foreign tax credits) as a percentage of pre-tax income. The effective income tax rate excludes the effects of the deferred income tax, and the assets and complementary income tax. The following table summarizes the changes in our blended and effective tax rate for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: Three-Month Period Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Blended tax rate 27.0 % 29.9 % Effective tax rate 29.6 % 28.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. rounded amounts that appear in the table. Our blended tax rate decreased from the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 to the same period in 2012 because in the first quarter of 2012 our income and asset tax expense was positively impacted by growth in our Argentine taxable income where the income tax rate is lower as compared to other locations. The decrease in our blended tax rate was also due to decreases in income tax charge in Brazil as a consequence of permanent tax differences. Our effective tax rate increased from the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 to the same period in 2012 due to temporary and permanent tax differences in Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela. The following table sets forth our effective income tax rate related to our main locations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: Three-Month Periods Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Effective tax rate by country Argentina 15.8 % 18.3 % Brazil 37.7 % 32.3 % Mexico 39.3 % 20.4 % Venezuela 33.5 % 29.7 % The Companys Argentine subsidiary is a beneficiary of a software development law granting it a relief of 60% of total income tax determined in each year. Mainly for that reason, our Argentine operations effective income tax rate for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 are currently lower than the local statutory rate of 35%. If we had not been granted the Argentine tax holiday, our Argentine effective income tax rate would have been higher but, in that case, we would have pursued an alternative tax planning strategy. In addition, the Argentine government issued a new software development law which is still waiting for the regulatory decree. If the Company qualifies under the new software development law, it is possible that the current Argentine income tax relief we benefit from could be reduced slightly. However, under the new law, it is also possible that the tax holiday would be extended for an additional five years, while also providing us with certain other fiscal benefits. The decrease in our Argentine operations effective income tax rate period over period is mainly related to variations in temporary tax differences. 44 Table of Contents For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, our Brazilian effective income tax rate is higher than the local statutory rate of 34% mainly as a consequence of variations in both temporary and permanent tax differences. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 our Brazilian effective income tax rate is lower than the local statutory rate of 34% mainly because of the business reorganization generated as part of our tax planning strategy, which permitted us to use tax loss carryforwards in that country. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, our Mexican effective income tax rate is higher than the local statutory rate of 30% mainly because of variations in temporary and permanent tax differences. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, our Mexican effective income tax rate is lower than the local statutory rate mainly because of variations in permanent tax differences. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, our Venezuelan effective income tax rates are lower than the local statutory rate of 34%, mainly due to losses related to local inflation adjustment computed for tax purposes that is not recorded for U.S. GAAP purposes. Our effective tax rate reflects the tax effect of significant operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, especially in the case of Argentina, where we have significant operations with a low effective tax rate as a consequence of an Argentine tax holiday that we benefit from. A future change in the mix of pretax income from these various tax jurisdictions would impact the Companys periodic effective tax rate. We do not expect to have a significant impact in the domestic effective income tax rate related to dividend distributions from foreign subsidiaries since our strategy is to reinvest our cash surplus in our international operations, and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our main cash requirement historically has been working capital to fund MercadoPago financing operations in Brazil. We also require cash for capital expenditures relating to technology infrastructure, software applications, office space and to fund the payment of quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock. Since our inception, we have funded our operations primarily through contributions received from our stockholders during the first two years of operations, from funds raised during our initial public offering, and from cash generated from our operations. We have funded MercadoPago by discounting credit card receivables, with loans backed with credit card receivables and through cash advances derived from our business. At March 31, 2012, our principal source of liquidity was $158.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and $43.1 million of long-term investments provided by cash generated from operations. We consider our long-term investments as part of our liquidity because long-term investments are comprised by available-for-sale securities classified as long-term as a consequence of their contractual maturities. The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, funds receivable from and payable to MercadoPago users, and short-term debt. As long as we continue transferring credit card receivables to financial institutions in return for cash, we will continue generating cash. As of March 31, 2012, cash and investments of foreign subsidiaries amounted to $161.6 million or 80.1% of our consolidated cash and investments and approximately 46.0% of consolidated cash and investments are held outside the U.S., mostly in Brazil. Our strategy is to reinvest our undistributed earnings of our foreign operations in those operations and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. We do not expect a material impact in any repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries on our operations since the taxable domestic gains generated by any dividend distributions will be mostly offset with foreign tax credits that arise from income tax paid in our foreign operations, which we are allowed to compute for domestic income tax purposes. In the event we change the way we manage our business, the working capital needs could be funded, as we did in the past, through a combination of the sale of credit card coupons to financial institutions, loans backed by credit card receivables and cash advances from our business. 45 Table of Contents The following table presents our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2012 and 2011: Three months ended March, 31 (In millions) 2012 2011 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 19.0 $ 15.2 Investment activities (6.8 ) (21.2 ) Financing activities (3.5 ) 0.0 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (0.2 ) 0.2 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ 8.5 $ (5.9 ) Net cash provided by operating activities Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Three Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash provided by: Operating activities $ 19.0 $ 15.2 $ 3.8 25.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The $3.8 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period in 2011 was mainly attributable to a $5.6 million increase in net income. Additionally, net cash provided by operating activities in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 versus the same period of 2011 was impacted by a $2.2 million decrease in changes in account receivable and a $1.4 million increase in changes related to provisions. These increases in cash provided by operations were partially offset by a $3.8 million decrease in working capital related to our Payment solution and $1.6 million decrease in changes in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities Three Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash used in: Investing activities $ (6.8 ) $ (21.2 ) $ 14.5 -67.9 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. Net cash used in investing activities in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 resulted mainly from purchases of investments for $86.7 million. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, the increase in cash used in investment activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of $83.6 million of investments as part of our financial strategy. Additionally, we used $3.7 million of cash in the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 to make capital expenditures related to technological equipment and software licenses. Net cash used in investing activities in the three-month period of 2011 resulted mainly from purchases of investments for $99.1 million. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, the increase in cash used in investment activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of $80.8 million of investments as part of our financial strategy. Additionally, we used $3.0 million of cash in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 to make capital expenditures related to technological equipment, software licenses, new office space in Argentina and to office equipment in Brazil and Mexico. 46 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities Three Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 (*) 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash used in: Financing activities $ (3.5 ) $ 0.0 $ (3.5 ) -100.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2012, our primary use of cash was to fund the $3.5 million quarterly cash dividends paid on January 17, 2012. In the event that we decide to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future, we may fund them with available cash, third party debt financing, or by raising equity capital, as market conditions allow. Debt As of March 31, 2012, the Company recorded $4.8 million of dividends payable to its stockholders. In addition, as of March 31, 2012, our outstanding debt of $0.2 million is related to Argentine car lease contracts. See Contractual obligations below for more information. Cash Dividends On January 17, 2012, we paid the fourth quarterly cash dividend in our history for $3.5 million (or $0.08 per share) on our outstanding shares of common stock held of record as of the close of business on December 31, 2011. On February, 17 2012, our Board of Directors approved a quarterly cash dividend of $4.8 (or $0.109 per share) million on our outstanding shares of common stock. The dividend was paid on April 16, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 30, 2012. We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, any future determination as to the declaration of dividends on our common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. Capital expenditures Our capital expenditures increased by 0.7 million to 3.7 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2012 as compared to $3.0 million for the same period in 2011, mainly due to information technology investments made during the three-month period ended March 31, 2012. The Company increased the level of investment on hardware and software licenses necessary to improve and update the technology of our platform and cost of computer software developed internally. We anticipate continued investments in capital expenditures related to information technology in the future as we strive to maintain our position in the Latin American e-commerce market. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including the sale of credit card receivables and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, property and equipment expenditures and to pay or repay obligations going forward. Off-balance sheet arrangements At March 31, 2012, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Contractual obligations We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions and other factors may result in actual Payments differing materially from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amount of Payments. Below is a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the table. Contractual obligations at March 31, 2012 are as follows: 47 Table of Contents Payment due by period Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 More than (in millions) Total 1 year years years 5 years Capital lease obligations (1) $ 0.2 $ 0.1 $ 0.1 $ $ Operating lease obligations (2) 4.1 1.4 2.4 0.3 Purchase obligations 9.3 6.5 2.8 Total $ 13.6 $ 8.0 $ 5.3 $ 0.3 $ (1) On February 22, 2010, our Argentine subsidiary signed a Company Car Lease contract to lease 12 cars for certain employees of the Company. The total lease contract amounts to $0.4 million and matures in January, 2013. In addition, during September of 2011, the Company signed another lease contract to lease 8 cars for certain employees of the Company. The total lease contract amounts to $0.2 million and matures in September, 2014. (2) Include leases of office spaces. We have leases for office space in certain countries in which we operate and leases for Company cars in Argentina. These are our only operating leases. Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (technological equipment and software licenses) and other goods and services that were entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have developed estimates to project payment obligations based upon historical trends, when available, and our anticipated future obligations. Given the significance of performance requirements within our advertising and other arrangements, actual Payments could differ significantly from these estimates.