Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements regarding our future performance made in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; government regulation; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America in general, and Venezuela and Argentina in particular, including Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2010. You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report and our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them to be material that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. 28 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations has been organized to present the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, capital expenditures and contractual obligations; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the company) hosts the largest online commerce platform in Latin America focused on enabling e-commerce and its related services. Our services are designed to provide our users with mechanisms to buy, sell, pay for and collect on e-commerce transactions effectively and efficiently. With a population of over 550 million people and a region with one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust online commerce environment that fosters the development of a large and growing e-commerce community. We offer a technological and commercial solution that addresses the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America. We offer our users two principal services: The MercadoLibre Marketplace : The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our Marketplace business, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list items and conduct their sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. Additionally, through online classified listings, our registered users can list and purchase motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, real estate and services. Users and advertisers are also able to place, display and/or text advertisements on our web pages in order to promote their brands and offerings. Any Internet user can browse through the various products and services that are listed on our web site and register with MercadoLibre to list, bid for and purchase items and services. As a further enhancement to the MercadoLibre Marketplace, in 2009 we launched our MercadoClics program to allow businesses to promote their products and services on the web. MercadoClics offers advertisers a cost efficient and automated platform with which to acquire traffic from us. Advertisers purchase, on a cost per clicks basis, advertising space that appear alongside product search results for specific categories and other pages. These advertising placements are clearly differentiated from product search results and direct traffic both on or off-platform to the advertisers destination of choice. The MercadoPago online Payments solution : To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online Payments solution, which we sometimes refer to as our Payments business. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off the MercadoLibre Marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely, easily and promptly send and receive Payments online. We operate in six reporting segments, five of which related to our Marketplace business and the remainder which relates to our Payment business. Within our Marketplace business, we separately report our operations in each of Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Uruguay). The operations of our Payments business, which is available in each of Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Chile, Colombia, and Venezuela, are reported in one segment. In addition, we operate a real estate classifieds platform that covers some areas of Florida in the United States, the operations of which are included in our Marketplace segment for Other Countries. 29 Table of Contents Principal trends in Results of Operations Growth in net revenue over comparable periods from year to year Since our inception, we have consistently generated revenue growth from the MercadoLibre Marketplace and from MercadoPago, driven by the growth of our key operational metrics. Our net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, as compared to the same period for 2009, increased by 27.1% and 103.2% for the MercadoLibre Marketplace and MercadoPago Payments platform, respectively. We believe that the growth in net revenues should continue in the future. However, despite this positive historical trend, current weak global macro-economic conditions, coupled with devaluations of certain local currencies in Latin America versus the U.S. dollar, particularly in Venezuela and high interest rates, could lead to declining year-to-year net revenues, particularly as measured in U.S. dollars. Increased diversification of revenues Revenues from our Payments business have been increasing at a faster rate than our revenues from our Marketplace business, and we anticipate this trend to continue in the long term. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, Payments represented 28.2% and 19.7% of net revenues, respectively. However, this trend is sensitive to macroeconomic fluctuations, including interest rate fluctuations for consumer credit. Accordingly, this revenue diversification trend may be interrupted during economic periods where there are higher costs of lending. Gross profit margins Our business has generated sustained high gross profit margins over time, defined as total net revenues minus total cost of net revenues, as a percentage of net revenues. Historically, gains in gross profit margins have been mainly attributable to increased economies of scale in customer service, Internet Service Provider (ISP) connectivity and site operations, improved economic terms obtained from payment processors as well as increases in interest fees that we charge our MercadoPago buyers. Our gross profit margin was 78.5% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to 79.5% for the same period in 2009, mainly as a result of faster growth in our Payments business as compared to our Marketplace business. Our Payments business has a lower gross profit margin than our Marketplace business. In the future, gross profit margins could continue to decline if the cost of net revenues as a percentage of net revenues increases as our Payments business grows faster than our Marketplace business, if we cannot sustain the economies of scale that we have achieved, or if we decrease the interest fees charged. Improving Operating income margins We have generated and expect to continue generating economies of scale in operating expenses. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, our operating income margins, defined as income from operations as a percentage of net revenues, increased from 20.9% in the first quarter of 2009 to 33.8% in the first quarter of 2010 driven by the impact of these economies of scale. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, our operating expense margins, defined as operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues, decreased from 58.5% during the first quarter in 2009 to 44.7% in the first quarter of 2010. We anticipate, however, that as we continue to invest in product development, sales and marketing and human resources in order to promote our services and capture the long term business opportunity offered by the Internet in Latin America, it is increasingly difficult to sustain growth in operating income margins, and at some point in the future we could experience decreasing operating income margins. Growth in Net Income We have generated growth in our net income as a consequence of the abovementioned trends. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, net income was $9.6 million and $5.4 million, respectively, an increase of $4.2 million or 78.5% from the 2009 first quarter. However, as mentioned above, if any of these trends were to revert, our net income growth could be affected, or could even become negative on a year-to-year basis. 30 Table of Contents Description of line items Net revenues We recognize revenues in each of our reporting segments. The MercadoLibre Marketplace segments include Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Uruguay). The MercadoPago segment includes our regional Payments platform consisting of our MercadoPago business. Historically, we have generated revenues from the MercadoLibre Marketplace segments from: listing fees; optional feature fees; final value fees; and online advertising fees. During the first quarter of 2009, we modified our pricing structure by replacing our previous listing fees and optional feature fees with consolidated up-front fees which bundle these features. We now offer three types of up-front fees for three different combinations of placement and features. Up-front fees are charged at the time the listing is uploaded onto our platform and are not subject to successful sale of the items listed. Following this fee structure modification, revenues for the MercadoLibre Marketplace segments are now generated by: up front fees; final value fees; and online advertising fees. The MercadoLibre Marketplace business generated 71.8% and 80.3% of our net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues by country from our MercadoLibre Marketplace for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (in millions, except percentages) Percentage of total MercadoLibre Marketplace net revenues Brazil 47.5 % 38.1 % Argentina 20.4 % 19.1 % Mxico 12.2 % 11.1 % Venezuela 10.1 % 24.5 % Other Countries 9.8 % 7.2 % Total Net Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 31 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues by type of business for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 Net Revenues breakdown by businesses As a percentage of total net revenues: Marketplaces 71.8 % 80.3 % Payments 28.2 % 19.7 % Revenues generated by our Payments business are attributable to commissions charged to buyers and sellers for the use of MercadoPago. We generate revenues from our MercadoPago Payments segment by charging users a commission and a financial charge when the user elects to pay in installments, which we recognize, in both cases, once the transaction is completed. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, commission and installment-related financial charges averaged 5.9% and 4.6%, respectively, of the payment amounts made by the user through MercadoPago. We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, no single customer accounted for more than 1.0% of our net revenues in our MercadoLibre Marketplace business or our MercadoPago Payments business. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in thirteen countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and Venezuela), and MercadoPago is available in six countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela). The functional currency for each countrys operations is the local currency, except for Venezuela whose functional currency is the US dollar due to Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign Currency Translation included in this report. Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the average monthly exchange rate. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as costs of net revenues. These taxes represented 6.5% of net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010. Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, certain taxes on revenues, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization and hosting and site operation fees. Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, telecommunications costs and Payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to our company. Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing costs for our platforms through online and offline advertising, bad debt charges, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs. We carry out the vast majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. In that context, we enter in agreements with portals, search engines, social networks, ad networks and other sites in order to attract Internet users to the MercadoLibre Marketplace and convert them into confirmed registered users and active traders on our platform. Additionally, we invest a portion of our marketing budget on cable television advertising in order to improve our brand awareness and to complement our online efforts. We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our supply efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers, through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform. 32 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. General and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas of our company: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources. Other income (expenses) Other income (expenses) consists of interest expense (interest expense relating to the working capital requirements for our MercadoPago operations are recorded as interest expense and not as cost of net revenues) and other financial charges, interest income derived primarily from our investments and cash equivalents, foreign currency gains or losses, the effect of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, and other non-operating results. Income and asset tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes and asset taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change during the period in our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. You should read the following descriptions of critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, the notes there to and other disclosures included in this report. Foreign Currency Translation Historically, all of our foreign operations have used the local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, these foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using year end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the year. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency gain / (loss). Until September 30, 2009, our Venezuelan subsidiaries assets, liabilities, income and expenses were translated at the official exchange rate of 2.15 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to use the parallel exchange rate rather than the official exchange rate to translate our Venezuelan financial statements. The following facts and circumstances have been considered in our analysis of the applicable exchange rate: At the date we changed the translation exchange rate, we did not have a history of having obtained dividends remittances at the official exchange rate (and we do not have at the date of this report), The industry in which we operate may not influence our ability to access to the official exchange rate, The CADIVI volume of approvals of the use of the Official Rate was down 50% on a year-to-year basis as of July 2009. CADIVI has not only delayed approvals but also removed many items from priority lists, further delaying approvals (current priorities appear to be food and medicine) and causing delays in the repatriation of dividends for many companies. 33 Table of Contents Consequently, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we translated our Venezuelan assets, liabilities, income and expense accounts using the parallel exchange rate. In accordance with US GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary as of January 1, 2010 and have accordingly used the US dollar to be the functional currency for purposes of our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect was accounted for in other comprehensive income during the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 related to our Venezuelan operations. Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired on this basis, the impairment loss to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Goodwill and certain indefinite live trademarks are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment of goodwill and certain trademarks are tested at the reporting unit level (considering each segment of the Company as a reporting unit) by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill and certain trademarks, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a combination of the income or discounted cash flows approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill or indefinite useful life intangible assets are considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. No impairments were recognized during the reporting periods and managements assessment of each reporting units fair value materially exceeds its carrying value. We believe that the accounting estimate related to impairment of long lived assets and goodwill is critical since it is highly susceptible to change from period to period because: (i) it requires management to make assumptions about gross merchandise volume growth, future interest rates, sales and costs; and (ii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as on our net income would be material. Managements assumptions about future sales and future costs require significant judgment. Provision for doubtful accounts We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers. Provisions for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future changes in trends could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows. We believe that the accounting estimate related to provision for doubtful accounts is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment. Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 1 of Part II of this report and in Note 8 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we will defend ourselves vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense could be costly and could divert managements time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay damages or modify our business practices. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34 Table of Contents Income taxes We are required to recognize a provision for income taxes based upon taxable income and temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable under currently enacted tax laws in each jurisdiction and an analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals, allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets and liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We also assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of deferred tax asset will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. At March 31, 2010, we had a valuation allowance on certain foreign net operating losses based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our Income/asset tax expense line in our condensed consolidated statement of income. Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to three-month period ended March 31, 2009. The selected financial data for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 have been derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. These statements include all normal recurring adjustments that management believes are necessary to fairly state our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2010 or for any other period. Statement of income data Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2010 2009 Net revenues $ 45.9 $ 32.3 Cost of net revenues (9.9 ) (6.6 ) Gross profit 36.0 25.7 Operating expenses: Product and technology development (3.2 ) (2.6 ) Sales and marketing (11.1 ) (10.2 ) General and administrative (6.2 ) (6.1 ) Total operating expenses (20.5 ) (18.9 ) Income from operations 15.5 6.8 Other income (expenses): Interest income and other financial gains 0.8 0.9 Interest expense and other financial charges (3.0 ) (2.5 ) Foreign currency gain 0.4 1.9 Net income before income / asset tax expense 13.7 7.1 Income / asset tax expense (4.1 ) (1.7 ) Net income $ 9.6 $ 5.4 35 Table of Contents Other Data Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2010 2009 Number of confirmed registered users at end of the period 1 44.9 35.7 Number of confirmed new registered users during the period 2 2.3 1.9 Gross merchandise volume 3 731.6 520.9 Number of items sold 4 8.3 6.0 Total payment volume 5 123.8 53.2 Total payment transactions 6 1.1 0.5 Capital expenditures 1.4 2.6 Depreciation and Amortization 0.9 1.0 1- Measure of the cumulative number of users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. 2- Measure of the number of new users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. 3- Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions completed through the MercadoLibre Marketplace, excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate. 4- Measure of the number of items that were sold/purchased through the MercadoLibre Marketplace. 5- Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. 6- Measure of the number of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. Net revenues Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Revenues by Business: Marketplaces $ 33.0 $ 25.9 $ 7.1 27.1 % Payments 12.9 6.4 6.5 103.2 % Total Net Revenues $ 45.9 $ 32.3 $ 13.6 42.1 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. Measured in local currencies, net revenues grew 45.0% in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period a year earlier. The local currency revenue growth was calculated by using the average monthly exchange rates for each month during 2009 and applying them to the corresponding months in 2010, so as to calculate what our financial results would have been had exchange rates remained stable from one year to the next. Growth in MercadoLibre Marketplace revenues from the first quarter of 2009 to the first quarter of 2010 resulted principally from a 40.4% increase in the gross merchandise volume transacted through our platform from the first quarter of 2009 to the first quarter of 2010. This was partially offset by a decrease in US dollar revenues provided by our Venezuelan subsidiaries as a consequence of the re-measurement of our revenues at the monthly average parallel exchange rate of 6.52 Bolivar Fuerte per US dollar during the first quarter of 2010. During the first quarter of 2009 we translated the Bolivares Fuertes to U.S. dollar at the official exchange rate of 2.15 (See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign currency translation for more detail). In addition the growth in Marketplace revenues was partially offset by a decrease in our Marketplace take rate, defined as Marketplace revenues as a percentage of gross merchandise volume, from 5.0% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 to 4.5% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010. The decrease in take rate was principally due to a larger growth 36 Table of Contents in final value fee listings, which have a marginally lower take rate, as compared to up-front fee listings and a larger growth in our smaller country operations that have a lower take rate as compared to our bigger company operations. The growth in MercadoPago revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 resulted principally from a 132.9% increase in the total Payments volume completed on our MercadoPago Payments platform partially offset by a decrease in our Payments take rate, defined as Payments revenues as a percentage of total Payment volume, from 12.0% in the first quarter of 2009 to 10.5% in the first quarter of 2010 (see Description of Line items: Net Revenue section for an explanation of how revenues are recorded for MercadoPago installments). The decrease in our MercadoPago take rate was principally due to a decrease in installment-related financial charges that we charge to users mainly as a consequence of a general decrease in interest rates. The following table summarizes the changes in net revenues by segment for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009: Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Revenues by Segment: Brazil Marketplace $ 15.7 $ 9.9 $ 5.8 58.8 % Argentina Marketplace 6.7 4.9 1.8 35.4 % Mexico Marketplace 4.0 2.9 1.1 40.0 % Venezuela Marketplace 3.3 6.3 (3.0 ) -47.7 % Others Marketplace 3.2 1.9 1.3 72.9 % Payments 13.0 6.4 6.6 103.2 % Total Net Revenues $ 45.9 $ 32.3 $ 13.6 42.1 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. On a segment basis, our net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to three-month period ended March 31, 2009, increased across all segments except for the Venezuelan Marketplace which, measured in US dollars, decreased 47.7%. The decrease in net revenues for this Venezuelan segment is attributable to the re-measurement of our revenues at the monthly average parallel exchange rate of 6.52 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar as compared to the first quarter of 2009 where the revenues were translated at the official exchange rate of 2.15 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar. In local currency, our Marketplace revenues in Brazil and Venezuela grew 21.4% and 58.3% in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period a year earlier. The following table summarizes the changes in net revenues of both our Marketplace and Payments business on an aggregate basis by geography for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009: Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Revenues by Geography: Brazil $ 26.3 $ 15.2 $ 11.1 73.2 % Venezuela 3.5 6.6 (3.1 ) -47.7 % Argentina 8.3 5.4 2.9 54.8 % Mxico 4.5 3.2 1.3 40.8 % Other Countries 3.3 1.9 1.4 73.2 % Total Net Revenues $ 45.9 $ 32.3 $ 13.6 42.1 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. Based on geography, our net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period ended March 31, 2009, increased across all geographies except for the Venezuelan Marketplace as explained above. 37 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly growth of these net revenues for the periods described below: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (in millions, except percentages) (*) 2010 Net Revenues $ 45.9 n/a n/a n/a Percent change from prior quarter -6 % n/a n/a n/a 2009 Net Revenues $ 32.3 $ 40.9 $ 50.6 $ 49.0 Percent change from prior quarter -3 % 27 % 24 % -3 % 2008 Net Revenues $ 28.8 $ 34.5 $ 40.3 $ 33.4 Percent change from prior quarter 7 % 20 % 17 % -17 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. Cost of net revenues Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Total cost of net revenues $ 9.9 $ 6.6 $ 3.3 49.1 % As a percentage of net revenues 21.5 % 20.5 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. The increase in cost of net revenues was primarily attributable to a $1.9 million increase in collection fees mainly in Brazil and Argentina as a result of a faster growth in our Payments business as compared to our Marketplace business. Our Payments business has a higher collection fee cost than our Marketplace business. In addition, expenditures related to our in-house customer support operations increased by $0.9 million, or 57.1%, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2009, primarily driven by an increase in compensation costs, recruitment, investments in improved service and initiatives to combat fraud, illegal items and fee evasion. Sales taxes on our net revenues increased by $1.3 million, or 74.1% for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same periods for 2009 as a consequence of decreases in deductions we can compute with respect to our Brazilian sales taxes. The increase in cost of net revenues was partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in other costs mainly related to a charge attributable to the re-measurement of the US dollar denominated expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2009. These expenses were re-measured at an average parallel exchange rate of 5.9 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar and translated at the official exchange rate (2.15 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar). We did not have any similar re-measurement charge in the first quarter of 2010 (See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign currency translation for more detail). 38 Table of Contents Product and technology development Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Product and technology development $ 3.2 $ 2.6 $ 0.6 22.5 % As a percentage of net revenues 7.0 % 8.1 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. The growth in product and technology development expenses was primarily attributable to $0.5 million or a 43.4% increase in compensation costs for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 over the same period for 2009. These additional compensation expenses were primarily related to the addition of engineers and, to a lesser extent, to increases in salaries, as we continue to invest in top quality talent to develop enhancements and new features across our platforms. We believe product development is one of our key competitive advantages and intend to continue to invest in adding engineers to meet the increasingly sophisticated product expectations of our customer base. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Sales and marketing $ 11.1 $ 10.2 $ 0.9 8.7 % As a percentage of net revenues 24.2 % 31.6 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, the increase in sales and marketing expenses was primarily attributable to a $0.9 million increase in bad debt charges when compared to the same period in 2009. Bad debt charges for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 represented 7.2% of net revenues versus 7.6% for the same period in 2009. In addition, compensation costs for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 increased by $0.2 million due to increases in salaries to retain talent and $0.5 million related to trust and safety and other marketing expenses. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 was partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in our online advertising expenses related to specific deals, as we have optimized investment allocation over the same period ended March 31, 2009. Online advertising represented 9.3% of our net revenues in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, down from 15.3% for the same period in 2009. General and administrative Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) General and administrative $ 6.2 $ 6.1 $ 0.1 2.2 % As a percentage of net revenues 13.5 % 18.8 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. 39 Table of Contents For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, the increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million increase in compensation costs related to our long term retention plans, and increases in salaries to retain talent. The increase in general and administrative expenses was partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in other general and administrative expenses mainly related to a charge related to the re-measurement of the US dollar denominated expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries in the first quarter of 2009 were we re-measured at an average parallel exchange rate of 5.9 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar and translated at the official exchange rate (2.15 Bolivares Fuertes per U.S. dollar). We did not have any similar translation effect due to the change in functional currency in the first quarter of 2010 (See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign currency translation for more detail). Other income (expenses) Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Other (expenses) income -$ 1.8 $ 0.3 -$ 2.1 -711.7 % As a percentage of net revenues -3.9 % 0.9 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, the increase in other expenses was primarily a result of a $1.5 million decrease in foreign currency gains, from $1.9 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 to $0.4 million for the same period in 2010. The decrease in foreign currency gains for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 was primarily due to: (i) decreases in foreign exchange gains in Venezuela from the first quarter of 2009 to the same period in 2010 attributable to a change in functional currency as of January 1, 2010, (ii) decreases in foreign exchange gains in Argentina from the first quarter of 2009 to the same period in 2010 attributable to the impact of a lesser depreciation of local currency on the cash balances held by the Argentine subsidiaries in U.S. dollars during the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period of the previous year, and (iii) increases in losses in Mexico due to the impact of a local currency appreciation on the cash balances held by the Mexican subsidiaries in U.S. dollars in the first quarter of 2010. These foreign currency expenses were partially offset by foreign exchange gains in Brazil attributable to the impact of the local currency depreciation on the cash balances held by the Brazilian subsidiaries in U.S. dollars. In addition, other expenses grew due to an increase in interest expense and other financial charges, from $2.5 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 to $3.0 for the same period in 2010. The increase in interest expense resulted mainly from financing incurred by selling all our credit card coupons to fund working capital needs in our Payments operations in Brazil. In addition, interest income and other financial charges decreased by $0.1 million from $0.9 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 to $0.8 million in the same period of 2010. This decrease is primarily due to $0.4 million of accrued gains related to changes in the fair value of put options in the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 versus no impact in the same period of 2010, partially offset by higher interest income of our investments driven by a greater volume of investments. Income and asset tax Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (*) Income and asset tax 4.1 1.7 2.4 144.1 % As a percentage of net revenues 8.9 % 5.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 the income and asset tax represented 8.9% of net revenues versus 5.2% for the same period in 2009. The increase in our income and asset tax expense from the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 to the same period in 2010 was primarily a result of increases in income taxes charges in Brazil and Argentina, driven by higher taxable income period over period. Our blended tax rate is defined as income and asset tax expense as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. Our effective income tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes as a percentage of pre tax income. The effective income tax rate excludes the effects of the deferred income tax, and of the Mexican tax called Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa nica (IETU). 40 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the changes in our blended and effective tax rate for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (*) Blended tax rate 29.8 % 23.7 % Effective tax rate 41.4 % 18.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. Our blended tax rate increase from the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 to the same period in 2010 as a consequence of a decrease in our Argentine deferred tax assets related to provisions for doubtful accounts and due to a $0.6 million increase in IETU taxes. Our effective tax rate increased from the three-month period ended March 31, 2009 to the same period in 2010 as a consequence of the effect of the Venezuelan change in functional currency which was considered for tax purposes a permanent difference. The effective tax rate also increased due to a growth in our Brazilian taxable income where the income tax rate is 34% as compared to other locations where we have a lower tax rate. In addition, we were impacted by a $1.5 million domestic income tax provision related to a Brazilian dividend distribution where we recorded a domestic pre-tax loss. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our main cash requirement historically has been working capital to fund our MercadoPago financing operation in Brazil. We also require cash for capital expenditures related to our technology infrastructure, software applications and office space. Since our inception, we have funded our operations primarily through contributions received from our stockholders during the first two years of operations, from funds raised during our initial public offering, and from cash generated from our operations. We have funded MercadoPago by discounting credit card receivables, with loans backed with credit card receivables, by selling credit cards coupons and through cash advances derived from our MercadoLibre Marketplace business. At March 31, 2010, our principal source of liquidity was $41.7 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and $46.4 million of long-term investments (excluding our investment in an Argentine real estate trust) provided by cash generated from operations. The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, funds receivable from and payable to MercadoPago users, and short-term debt. As long as we continue managing our Payments business by transferring credit card receivables to financial institutions in return for cash, as we have done since the last quarter of 2008, we expect that our MercadoPago business will generate cash. The cost of discounting these receivables is built in the financing fees of MercadoPago. In the event we change the way we manage our Payments business, the working capital needs related to this business could be funded, as we did in the past, through a combination of the sale of credit card coupons to financial institutions, loans backed by credit card receivables and cash advances from our Marketplace business. The following table presents our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009: Three Months Ended March 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 11.5 $ 4.9 Investing activities (23.0 ) (5.4 ) Financing activities (3.2 ) (0.1 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (0.4 ) 0.2 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (15.1 ) $ (0.4 ) 41 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Cash provided by: Operating activities $ 11.5 $ 4.9 $ 6.6 136.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. The increase of $6.6 million in net cash provided by operating activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 was mainly attributable to a $4.2 million increase in net income. Additionally, net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by a $2.9 million increase in changes in account payable and accrued expenses and $2.4 decrease in changes in other assets as a consequence that in the first quarter of 2009 other assets included the Venezuelan foreign currency effect generated by the re-measurement at the parallel exchange rate and the translation at the official exchange rate versus no impact on the first quarter of 2010 (See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign currency translation for more detail). These increases in cash provided by operations were partially offset by a $2.4 million increase in changes in account receivables in the first quarter of 2010 versus the same period of 2009 and increases in non-cash gains such as the deferred income taxes for $0.7 million. Net cash used in investing activities Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Cash used in: Investing activities -$ 23.0 -$ 5.4 -$ 17.6 324.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. Net cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of 2010 resulted mainly from purchases of investments for $34.4 million. Additionally, we used $1.4 million of cash in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 to make capital expenditures related to technological equipment, software licenses and, to a lesser degree, office equipment. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, the increase in cash used in investment activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of $12.8 million of investments as part of our financial strategy. As of March 31, 2009, net cash used in investing activities resulted primarily from purchases of investments for $33.7 million. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2009, we used $2.6 million of cash for capital expenditures related to technological equipment, software licenses and, to a lesser degree, office equipment. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2009, the increase in cash used in investment activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of $30.9 million of investments as part of our financial strategy. 42 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities Three Months Ended Change from 2009 March 31, to 2010 2010 2009 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Cash used in: Financing activities -$ 3.2 -$ 0.1 -$ 3.1 5517.9 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using the whole figures, instead on rounding figures. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, our primary use of cash for financing activities was a reduction in short term debt related to a $3.2 million payment of notes outstanding in connection with the DeRemate acquisition. In the event that we decide to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future, we may fund them with available cash, third party debt financing, or by raising equity capital, as market conditions allow. Debt In connection with the DeRemate acquisition, on September 5, 2008, we issued to the Seller ten unsecured promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $18 million. On June 3, 2009, August 31, 2009, December 4, 2009 and March 4, 2010, the Company paid to the Sellers $3,113,203, $9,470,222, $3,018,893 and $3,242,395, respectively for principal and accrued interest. As of March 31, 2010, we have no debt outstanding related to DeRemate acquisition. Capital expenditures Our capital expenditures decreased $1.2 million, to $1.4 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 as compared to $2.6 million for the same period in 2009, mainly due to an investment in software licenses during the first quarter of 2009. Other capital expenditures during the first quarter of 2010 include hardware and software licenses necessary to maintain and update the technology of our platform, computer software developed internally, office equipment and new office space. We anticipate continued investments in capital expenditures in the future as we strive to maintain our position in the Latin American e-commerce market. In 2008, our Argentine subsidiary invested in a real estate trust. The investment in this trust represents a beneficial ownership interest in 5,340 square meters divided in five floors of an office building and 70 parking spots under construction in the City of Buenos Aires, Argentina, where we expect to relocate our office headquarters upon completion of the building. As of March 31, 2010, the Argentine subsidiary has paid $8.4 million into the trust. For U.S. GAAP purposes the investment was recorded as a long term investment instead of as Property and Equipment. As this investment represents an undivided interest for more than 20% of the total amount of the real estate trust, it is accounted for under the equity method and it is classified as Long-Term Investments in our balance sheet. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including the sale of credit card receivables and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, property and equipment expenditures and to repay obligations going forward. Off-balance sheet arrangements At March 31, 2010, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 43 Table of Contents Contractual obligations We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated Payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions and other factors may result in actual Payments differing materially from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amount of Payments. Below is a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the table. Contractual obligations at March 31, 2010 are as follows: Payment due by period Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 More than (in millions) Total 1 year years years 5 years Operating lease obligations (1) $ 2.6 $ 1.6 $ 0.8 $ 0.2 $ Purchase obligations (2) 4.9 4.2 0.7 Total $ 7.5 $ 5.8 $ 1.5 $ 0.2 $ (1) Includes leases of office space. (2) On June 19, 2008, our Argentine subsidiary agreed to participate in a real estate trust, which investment represents a beneficial ownership interest in 5,340 square meters divided in five floors of an office building and 70 parking spots under construction in the City of Buenos Aires, Argentina. We expect to relocate our office headquarters to this newly acquired office space upon completion of the building, which we expect to occur in the fourth quarter of 2010. As of March 31, 2010, the Argentine subsidiary has invested $8.4 million in the aforementioned trust and is expected to invest an additional $0.8 million in the following 2 months. Due to the impact of inflation and/or currency fluctuations, future Payments could differ from our estimates. Certain of our officers and former officers also entered into an investment in a portion of the trust, which investment represents a beneficial ownership interest in a separate floor of the same building. We do not intend to occupy the space to be owned by this group. In addition, on February 22, 2010, our Argentina subsidiary signed a Company car lease contract to buy 12 cars for certain employees of the Company. The lease contract amounts to $0.4 million and matures in January 2013. The total cost of this contract is being deducted from each employee long term retention plan. We have leases for office space in certain countries in which we operate and leases for Company cars in Argentina. These are our only operating leases. Purchase obligation amounts include an obligation in the real estate trust for our new Argentina office space, minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (technological equipment and software licenses) and other goods and services that were entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have developed estimates to project payment obligations based upon historical trends, when available, and our anticipated future obligations. Given the significance of performance requirements within our advertising and other arrangements, actual Payments could differ significantly from these estimates.