Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements regarding our future performance made or implied in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, estimate, target, p roject, should, may, could, will and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally relate to information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, future economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate and the effects of future regulation and the effects of competition. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans, projections and strategies, anticipated financial results, future events and financial trends affecting our business, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors (in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report) that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; government and central bank regulations; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition ; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America in general, and Venezuela and Argentina in particular, including Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy for generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP), and possible future currency devaluation and other changes to its exchange rate systems such as the Sistema Marginal de Divisas (SIMADI), and the Argentine governments default of certain government bonds and possible further devaluations of the Argentine Peso . Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our C ompanys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements . These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control - as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of t he material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 201 4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 27 , 201 5 , as updated by those described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part II of this report and in other reports we file from time to time with the SEC. You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report, our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 201 4 . We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in 27 Table of Contents this report, generally because they are unknown to us or we do not perceive them to be a material risk that could cause results to differ m aterially from our expectations at this time . Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations has been organized to present the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, a discussion of our capital expenditures and a description of our contractual obligations; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Business Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the Company) hosts the largest online commerce platform in Latin America, which is focused on enabling e-commerce and its related services. Our platforms are designed to provide our users with a complete portfolio of services facilitating e-commerce transactions. We are market leaders in e-commerce in each of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, based on unique visitors and page views. We also operate online commerce platforms in the Dominican Republic, Panama and Portugal. Through our online commerce platform, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust online commerce environment that fosters the development of a large and growing e-commerce community in Latin America, a region with a population of over 605 million people and one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates in the world. We believe that we offer a technological and commercial solution that addresses the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America . We offer our users an eco-system of six related e-commerce services: the MercadoLibre Marketplace, the MercadoLibre Classifieds Service, the MercadoPago payments solution, the MercadoLibre Advertising program, the MercadoShops on-line stores solutions and the MercadoEnvios shipping service . The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our marketplace, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list general merchandising items and conduct their sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. Any Internet user in the countries in which we operate can browse through the various products that are listed on our website and register with the MercadoLibre Marketplace to list, bid for and purchase such items and services . To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online payments solution. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off the MercadoLibre Marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely, easily and promptly send, receive and finance payments online . Through online classified listings in the motors, real estate and services categories, our users can offer for sale and generate leads on listings in these non-general merchandising categories . As a further enhancement to the MercadoLibre Marketplace, in 2009, we launched our MercadoLibre Advertising program to enable businesses to promote their products and services on the Internet. Through MercadoLibre Advertising, users and advertisers are able to place display and/or text advertisements on our web pages in order to promote their brands and offerings. MercadoLibre Advertising offers advertisers a cost efficient and automated platform that enables advertisers to acquire traffic through advertisements placed on our platform. Advertisers purchase, on a cost per click basis, advertising space that appears around product search results for specific categories and other pages. These advertising placements are clearly differentiated from product search results and direct traffic both to and from our platform depending on the advertiser . 28 Table of Contents Additionally, during 2010, we launched the MercadoShops online webstores solution. Through MercadoShops users can set-up, manage and promote their own on-line webstores. These webstores are hosted by MercadoLibre and offer integration with the other marketplace, payments and advertising services we offer. Users can choose from a basic, free webstore or pay monthly subscriptions for enhanced functionality and value added services on their webstores . To close out our suite of e-commerce services, during 2013 and 2014, we launched the MercadoEnvios shipping solution in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. Through this solution, we offer cost efficient integration with existing logistics and shipping carriers to sellers on our platforms. Sellers opting into the program are able to offer a uniform and seamlessly integrated shipping experience to their buyers . Reporting Segments and Geographic information Our segment reporting is based on geography, which is the current criterion we are using to evaluate our segment performance. Our geographic segments include Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela , Mexico and other countries (including Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and the United States of America (real estate classifieds in the State of Florida only)). The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net revenues by segment for th e three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (% of total consolidated net revenues) (*) 2015 2014 Brazil 46.3 % 45.4 % Argentina 32.0 24.2 Venezuela 9.4 16.8 Mexico 6.4 7.0 Other Countries 5.9 6.5 (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts. The following table summarizes the changes in our net re venues by segment for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 68.5 $ 52.4 $ 16.1 30.6 % Argentina 47.4 27.9 19.5 69.6 Venezuela 14.0 19.3 (5.4) (27.9) Mexico 9.4 8.1 1.4 16.8 Other Countries 8.8 7.7 1.2 16.4 Total Net Revenues $ 148.1 $ 115.4 $ 32.7 28.4 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Recent developments Venezuela Foreign Currency Status On February 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government issued a decree that unifies the two previous foreign exchange systems that are frequently referred to as SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a new single system denominated SICAD, with an initial public foreign exchange rate of 12 Bolivares Fuertes (BsF) per U.S. dollar. The SICAD auction process remains available only to obtain 29 Table of Contents foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which does not include those relating to our business. In the same decree the Venezuelan government created the Sistema Marginal de Divisas (SIMADI), a new foreign exchange system that is separate from SICAD, which publishes a foreign exchange rate from the BCV on a daily basis. In light of the disappearance of SICAD 2, and our inability to gain access to U.S. dollars through the new single system under SICAD, we started requesting and ha ve been granted U.S. dollars through SIMADI. As a result, we now expect to settle our transactions through SIMADI and ha ve concluded that the SIMADI exchange rate should be used to re-measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to re-measure the revenues and expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of March 31, 2015. In connection with this re-measurement, we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $2 0 . 4 million and a deferred income tax gain of $3.8 million during the first quarter of 2015. As of March 31, 2015, the SIMADI exchange rate was 192.95 Bs.F. per U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate for the first quarter of 2015 was 52.46 BsF per U.S. dollar. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows now expected from our Venezuelan business, we have reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment, and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of March 31, 2015 will not be fully recoverable. As a result, we recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $16.2 million on March 31, 2015 . The carrying amount has been adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $9.2 million as of that date, by using the market approach and considering prices for similar assets. Business acquisitions On April 1, 2015, through our subsidiaries Ebazar.com.br Ltda. and MercadoLivre.com Atividades de Internet Ltda. we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of KPL S olues Ltda. an e-commerce management company in Brazil. As of the acquisition date we paid $15.8 million in cash and will pay up to an additional $9.5 million upon the achievement of certain performance targets by the acquired company during 2015 and 2016. Additionally, on April 22, 2015, through our subsidiaries MercadoLibre, S. de R.L. de C.V. and Deremate.com de Mxico, S. de R.L. de C.V. we acquired 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Metros Cbicos, S.A. de C.V., which operates an online classified advertisements platform dedicated to the sale of real estate in Mxico through the site named metroscubicos . At the acquisition date, we paid the total price of $ 27.0 million in cash to the sellers, and $3.0 million was transferred to an escrow trust for a period of 24 months to warrant all covenants and obligations assumed by the sellers in the stock purchase agreement. As of the date of this report, the initial accounting for these business combinations has not yet been completed. Description of line items Net revenues We recognize revenues in each of our five reporting segments. Our reporting segments include our operations in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela, Mexico and other countries (Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and the United States of America) . Within each of our segments, the services we provide generally fall into two distinct revenue streams, Marketplace which includes our core business and Non-Marketplace which includes ad sales, real estate listings, motors listings, financing fees, off-platform payment fees and other ancillary businesses. The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues by revenue stream for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended Consolidated net revenues March 31, (*) by revenue stream 2015 2014 Marketplace $ 94.8 $ 83.4 Non-Marketplace (**) 53.3 32.0 Total $ 148.1 $ 115.4 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. (**) Includes, among other things, Ad Sales, Real Estate, Motors, Financing Fees, Off-platform Payment Fees and other ancillary services . 30 Table of Contents Revenues from MercadoLibre Marketplace transactions are generated from: up-front fees ; and final value fees. For Marketplace services, final value fees representing a percentage of the sale value are charged to the seller once the item is successfully sold. Up-front fees are charged to the seller in exchange for improved exposure of the listings throughout our platform and are not subject to the successful sale of the items listed. Revenues for the Non-Marketplace services are generated from: financing fees; off- platform payment fees; motors up-front fees; ad sales up-front fees; real estate listings up-front fees; shipping fees; and fees from other ancillary businesses. With respect to our MercadoPago service, we generate payment related revenues, reported within each of our reporting segments, attributable to: commissions representing a percentage of the payment volume processed that are charged to sellers in connection with off-Marketplace-platform transactions; and revenues from financing that occur when a buyer elects to pay in installments through our MercadoPago platform, for transactions that occur either on or off our marketplace platform. Although we also process payments on the Marketplace, we do not charge sellers an added commission for this service, as it is already included in the Marketplace final value fee. Through our classifieds offerings in motors, real estate and services, we generate revenues from up-front fees. These fees are charged to sellers who opt to give their listings greater exposure throughout our websites . Our Advertising revenues are generated by selling either display or t ext link ads throughout our web site to interested advertisers. Finally, our shipping revenues are generated when a buyer elects to receive the item through our shipping service. When more than one service is included in one single arrangement with the customer, we recognize revenue according to multiple element arrangements accounting, distinguishing between each of the services provided and allocating revenues based on their respective selling prices. We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 , no single customer accounted for more than 5.0% of our net revenues. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in thirteen countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and Venezuela), and MercadoPago is available in six countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela). The functional currency for each countrys operations is the countrys local currency, except for Venezuela where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar due to Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the average monthly exchange rate. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign Currency Translation for more information. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as a cost of net revenues. These taxes represented 7. 4 % and 6.3% of net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2 0 14 , respectively. 31 Table of Contents Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, fraud prevention fees, certain taxes on revenues, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization and hosting and web site operation fees . Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, telecommunications costs and payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to us . Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing costs for our platforms through online and offline advertising, bad debt charges, chargebacks related to our MercadoPago operations, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs . We carry out the majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. In that regard, we enter into agreements with portals, search engines, social networks, ad networks and other web sites in order to attract Internet users to the MercadoLibre Marketplace and convert them into confirmed registered users and active traders on our platform. Additionally, we allocate a portion of our marketing budget to cable television advertising in order to improve our brand awareness and to complement our online efforts . We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our supply efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform . General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long - term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. Our general and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources . Impairment of long-lived assets We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. On February 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government issued a decree that unifies the two previous foreign exchange systems SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a new single system denominated SICAD, with an initial public foreign exchange rate of 12 BsF per U.S. dollar. The SICAD auction process remains available only to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which does not include those relating to our business. In the same decree the Venezuelan government created the SIMADI, a new foreign exchange system that is separate from SICAD, which publishes a foreign exchange rate from the BCV on a daily basis. In light of the disappearance of SICAD 2, and our inability to gain access to U.S. dollars through the new single system under SICAD, we started requesting and ha ve been granted U.S. dollars through SIMADI. As a result, we now expect to settle our transactions through SIMADI and ha ve concluded that the SIMADI exchange rate should be used to re-measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to re-measure the revenues and expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of March 31, 2015. In connection with this re-measurement, we recorded a foreign exchange loss of 20.4 million and a deferred income tax gain of $3.8 million during the first quarter of 2015. As of March 31, 2015, the SIMADI exchange rate was 192.95 BsF per U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate for the first quarter of 2015 was 52.46 BsF per U.S. dollar. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows now expected from our Venezuelan business, we have reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment, and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of March 31, 2015 will not be fully recoverable. As a result, we have recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $16.2 million on March 31, 2015 using the exchange rate as of that date . The carrying amount has been adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $9.2 million as of March 31, 2015 by using the market approach and considering prices for similar assets. 32 Table of Contents Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses) consists primarily of interest income derived from our investments and cash equivalents, interest expense related to financial liabilities, foreign currency gains or losses and other non-operating results . Income and asset tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes and asset taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change in our deferred tax assets and liabilities during each period . Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and our board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. You should read the following descriptions of critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates in conjunction with our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements, the notes thereto and other disclosures included in this report. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies, management estimates or accounting policies followed from the year ended December 31, 201 4 . Foreign Currency Translation Historically, all of our foreign operations have used the local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, these foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using period/year-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period/year. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss), a component of equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency ( loss es) gain s . Venezuelan currency status In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary since January 1, 2010, using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for purposes of reporting our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect has been accounted for in other comprehensive income related to our Venezuelan operations. During December 2013, the Venezuelan regulation that created SICAD 1 was amended to expand its use, and to require publication of the average exchange rate implied by transactions settled in SICAD 1 auctions. Additionally, on January 23, 2014, the exchange regulation was amended to include foreign currency sales for certain transactions, such as but not limited to: contracts for leasing and services, use and exploitation of patents, trademarks, foreign investments and payments of royalties, contracts for technology import and technical assistance. Due to the change in rules that provided for the creation of the SICAD 1 system, the official exchange rate remained only available to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which did not include those relating to our business. As a consequence, SICAD 1 became, from that moment through May 15, 2014, the primary system to which we would have to request U.S. dollars to settle our transactions. As a result, from January 24, 2014 to May 15, 2014, the exchange rate we used to re-measure our net monetary asset position and Bs F transactions of our Venezuelan operations was the SICAD 1 exchange rate. The average exchange rate under SICAD 1 during the first quarter of 2014 was 10.1 BsF per U.S. dollar . 33 Table of Contents In late February 2014, the Venezuelan government issued a decree to open a new exchange control mechanism SICAD 2 that allowed the purchase of foreign exchange currencies, through authorized foreign exchange operators offered by individuals and companies such as Petrleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA, the oil state-owned corporation of Venezuela), the BCV and other public entities authorized by the Ministry of Finance. The Venezuelan government published operating rules for the new exchange mechanism in Exchange Agreement N 27 and, on March 24, 2014 SICAD 2 began operating. Since implementation of the SICAD 1 system, we had been unsuccessful in gaining access to U.S. dollars through SICAD 1. As a result of this ongoing lack of access to the SICAD 1 auction system and the establishment of SICAD 2, on May 16, 2014, we started requesting U.S. dollars through the SICAD 2 mechanism. The SICAD 2 system was an open mechanism that permit t ed any company to request U.S. dollars for any purpose. Consequently, we were eligible for and were granted U.S. dollars through the SICAD 2 mechanism . As a consequence of our determination to obtain U.S. dollars through SICAD 2 and our continued lack of access to SICAD 1, we concluded that the SICAD 2 exchange rate should be used to re-measure the bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, and the results of our Venezuelan operations in Bs F , effective as of May 16, 2014. In connection with this re-measurement, we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $16.5 million during the second quarter of 2014. As of December 31, 2014, the SICAD 2 exchange rate was 49.99 BsF per U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2014, after giving effect to our move to the SICAD 2 mechanis m on May 16, 2014, was 33.94 BsF per U.S. dollar . In light of the economic conditions in Venezuela in the second quarter of 2014 , our determination to acces s SICAD 2 and re-measure the Bs F denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows then expected from our Venezuelan operations, during the second quarter of 2014, we reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment, including considering our then expected use of these assets in light of the foregoing. We own two office spaces in Venezuela that we had expected to use to support our main operating activities in that country. However, due to the economic conditions in Venezuela , we determined to rent these office spaces to third parties to generate rental income and will consider opportunities for disposal of these assets if real estate market conditions are favorable. Because we concluded that the carrying value of these two real estate properties were not fully recoverable, we recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $49.5 million during May 2014 . On February 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government issued a decree that unifies the two previous foreign exchange systems SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a new single system denominated SICAD, with an initial public foreign exchange rate of 12 BsF per U.S. dollar. The SICAD auction process remains available only to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which does not include those relating to our business. In the same decree the Venezuelan government created the SIMADI, a new foreign exchange system that is separate from SICAD, which publishes a foreign exchange rate from the BCV on a daily basis. In light of the disappearance of SICAD 2, and our inability to gain access to U.S. dollars through the new single system under SICAD, we started requesting and ha ve been granted U.S. dollars through SIMADI. As a result, we now expect to settle our transactions through SIMADI and ha ve concluded that the SIMADI exchange rate should be used to re-measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to re-measure the revenues and expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of March 31, 2015. In connection with this re-measurement, we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $2 0 . 4 million and a deferred income tax gain of $3.8 million during the first quarter of 2015. As of March 31, 2015, the SIMADI exchange rate was 192.95 BsF per U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate for the fir st quarter of 2015 was 52.46 Bs F per U.S. dollar. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows now expected from our Venezuelan business, we have reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment, and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of March 31, 2015 will not be fully recoverable. As a result, we have recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $16.2 million on March 31, 2015 using the exchange rate as of that date . The carrying amount has been adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $9.2 million as of March 31 , 2015 by using the market approach and considering prices for similar assets. Until 2010 we were able to obtain U.S. dollars for any purpose, including dividends distribution, using alternative mechanisms other than through the Commission for the Administration of Foreign Exchange Control (CADIVI). Those U.S. dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Our Venezuelan subsidiaries have not requested authorization since 2012 to acquire U.S. dollars to make dividend distributions and we have not distributed dividends from our Venezuelan subsidiaries since 2011 . 34 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations, as of March 3 1 , 201 5 and December 31, 201 4 and net revenues for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net Revenues $ 13,955 $ 19,357 March 31, December 31, 2015 2014 Assets 41,587 75,153 Liabilities (38,565) (43,359) Net Assets $ 3,022 $ 31,794 As of March 31, 2015, the net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries amount to approximately 0. 9% of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiaries held in local currency in Venezuela amount to approximately 1.3% of our consolidated cash and investments. Our ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela is negatively affected by the exchange restrictions in Venezuela that are described above. If our access to U.S. dollars becomes widely available at a more unfavorable rate than the current SIMADI exchange rate (or if SIMADI exchange rate has significant devaluation in the future), and we decided to use that alternative mechanism considering that exchange rate as the one applicable for re-measurement, our results of operations, earnings and value of our net assets in Venezuela would be negatively impacted, and we cannot assure that the impact would not be material . In addition, our business and ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela would be negatively affected by any additional material devaluations or the imposition of significant additional and more stringent controls on foreign currency exchange by the Venezuelan government in the future. Despite the current difficult macroeconomic environment in Venezuela, we continue actively managing, through our Venezuelan subsidiaries, our investment in Venezuela. Despite the current operating, political and economic conditions and certain other factors in Venezuela, we currently plan to continue supporting our business in Venezuela in the long run . In November 2013, the Venezuelan Congress approved the new Law of Costs, Earnings, and Fair Profits that authorizes Venezuelan government to restrict profit margins and the Venezuelan government has established a profit margin cap of 30% for the private sector. As of the date of this report, the implementing rules for this new law had not been issued. We will assess the potential effects of this new law as the detailed provisions for its implementation are issued . Argentine currency status The Argentine government has implemented certain measures that control and restrict the ability of companies and individuals to exchange Argentine Pesos for foreign currencies. Those measures include, among other things, the requirement to obtain the prior approval from the Argentine Tax Authority of any foreign currency transaction (for example and without limitation, for the payment of non-Argentine goods and services, payment of principal and interest on non-Argentine debt and also payment of dividends to parties outside of the country) which approval process could delay, and eventually restrict, the ability to exchange Argentine Pesos for other currencies, such as U.S. dollars. Those approvals are administered by the Argentine Central Bank through the Local Exchange Market (Mercado Unico Libre de Cambios, or MULC), which is the only market where exchange transactions may be lawfully made . Further, restrictions also currently apply to the acquisition of any foreign currency for holding as cash within Argentina. Although the controls and restrictions on the acquisition of foreign currencies in Argentina place certain limitations on our current ability to convert cash generated by our Argentine subsidiaries into foreign currencies, based on the current state of Argentine currency rules and regulations, we do not expect that the current controls and restrictions, will have a material adverse effect on our business plans in Argentina or on our overall business, financial condition or results of operations . Additionally, during January 2014 the Argentine Peso exchange rate against the U.S. dollar increased by approximately 23%, from 6.52 Argentine Pesos per U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2013 to approximately 8.0 Argentine Pesos per U.S. dollar. Due to the abovementioned devaluation, during the first quarter of 2014, the reported net assets of our Argentine subsidiary decreased by $14.6 million with the related impact in Other Comprehensive Income and we recognized a foreign currency gain of $4.6 million. As of March 31, 2015, the Argentine Peso exchange rate was $8.82 per U.S. dollar . 35 Table of Contents Allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers. Allowances for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. The allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks are recorded as charges to sales and marketing expenses. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future adverse changes to our historical experience for doubtful accounts and chargebacks could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows . We believe that the accounting estimate related to allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment . Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances and historical information related to actions filed against us at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events . From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 1 of Part II of this report, Item 3 of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended December 31, 201 4 and in Note 7 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements, included in this report. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we will defend ourselves accordingly. However, even if successful, our defense could be costly and could divert managements time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay material damages or modify our business practices. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows . Impairment of long-lived assets We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. For more information, see Description of line items Impairment of long-lived assets above . Convertible Senior Notes On June 30, 2014, we issued $330 million of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the Notes). The Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of the Company, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1, at a rate of 2.25% per annum. The Notes will mature on July 1, 2019 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes may be converted, under specific conditions, based on an initial conversion rate of 7.9353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $126.02 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the Notes . In accordance with ASC 470-20 Debt with Conversion and Other Options , the convertible debt instrument within the scope of the cash conversion subsection, was separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a fair value was assigned. The value assigned to the debt component was the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar debt without the conversion feature. As of June 30, 2014, we determined the fair value of the liability component of the Notes by reviewing market data that was available for senior, unsecured nonconvertible corporate bonds issued by comparable companies. The difference between the cash proceeds and this estimated fair value, represents the value assigned to the equity component and was recorded as a debt discount. The debt discount is amortized using the effective interest method from the origination date through its stated contractual maturity date . The initial debt component of the Notes was valued at $283.0 million, based on the contractual cash flows discounted at an appropriate market rate for a non-convertible debt at the date of issuance, which was determined to be 5.55%. The carrying value of the permanent equity component reported in additional paid-in-capital was initially valued at $47.0 million. This amount represents the total unamortized debt discount we recorded at the time of issuance of the Notes. The aggregate debt discount, including the transaction costs related to the debt component, is amortized as interest expense over the contractual term of the Notes using the effective interest method using an interest rate of 6.1% . In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we paid approximately $19.7 million to enter into capped call transactions with respect to shares of our common stock (the Capped Call Transactions), with certain financial institutions. The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in the event that the market price of our common stock is greater than the strike price of the Capped Call Transactions, initially set at $126.02 per 36 Table of Contents share of common stock, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes and is subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the conversion rate of the Notes, and have a cap price of approximately $155.78 per share of common stock . The $19.7 million cost of the capped call transactions, which net of deferred income tax effect amounts to $12.8 million, is included as a net reduction to additional paid-in capital in the stockholders equity section of our consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with the guidance in ASC 815-40 Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity . For more detailed information in relation to the Notes and the Capped Call transactions, see Results of operations for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2014 Other Data Debt. Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2014 The selected financial data for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 discussed herein is derived from our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. These statements include all normal recurring adjustments that management believes are necessary to fairly state our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The results of operations for the t hree-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year ending December 31, 201 5 or for any other period. Statement of income data Three-months Periods Ended March 31, (In millions) 2015 (*) 2014 (*) (Unaudited) Net revenues $ 148.1 $ 115.4 Cost of net revenues (44.7) (31.5) Gross profit 103.4 83.8 Operating expenses: Product and technology development (17.2) (12.3) Sales and marketing (26.2) (22.4) General and administrative (18.1) (15.2) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (16.2) Total operating expenses (77.8) (49.8) Income from operations 25.6 34.0 Other income (expenses): Interest income and other financial gains 4.3 3.0 Interest expense and other financial losses (5.0) (1.0) Foreign currency (losses) / gains (8.6) 3.1 Net income before income / asset tax expense 16.4 39.1 Income / asset tax expense (14.7) (8.8) Net income $ 1.7 $ 30.3 Less: Net Income attributable to Noncontrolling 0.1 Net income attributable to Mercadolibre, Inc. shareholders $ 1.7 $ 30.3 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. 37 Table of Contents Other Data Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (In millions) 2015 2014 Number of confirmed registered users at end of the period 1 126.7 103.7 Number of confirmed new registered users during the period 2 5.7 4.3 Gross merchandise volume 3 1,649.1 1,797.3 Number of items sold 4 27.5 21.7 Total payment volume 5 1,037.3 664.0 Total payment transactions 6 14.8 9.2 Capital expenditures 8.3 7.1 Depreciation and amortization 5.1 3.5 (1) Measure of the cumulative number of users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. (2) Measure of the number of new users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. (3) Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions completed through the MercadoLibre Marketplace, excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate. (4) Measure of the number of items that were sold/purchased through the MercadoLibre Marketplace. (5) Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. (6) Measure of the number of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. Net revenues Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total Net Revenues $ 148.1 $ 115.4 32.7 28.4% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 100.0% 100.0% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. 38 Table of Contents Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 Consolidated Net Revenues March 31, to 2015 (**) by revenue stream 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Brazil Marketplace $ 40.8 $ 36.1 $ 4.7 12.9% Non-Marketplace 27.7 16.3 11.4 69.8% 68.5 52.4 16.1 30.6% Argentina Marketplace $ 30.3 $ 18.5 $ 11.8 63.8% Non-Marketplace 17.1 9.4 7.7 80.9% 47.4 27.9 19.5 69.6% Venezuela Marketplace $ 12.8 $ 17.3 $ (4.5) -26.0% Non-Marketplace 1.1 2.0 (0.9) -44.5% 14.0 19.3 (5.4) -27.9% Mexico Marketplace $ 6.4 $ 6.2 $ 0.2 3.1% Non-Marketplace 3.1 1.9 1.2 60.9% 9.4 8.1 1.4 16.8% Other countries Marketplace $ 4.5 $ 5.3 $ (0.9) -16.0% Non-Marketplace 4.3 2.4 2.1 95.1% 8.8 7.7 1.2 16.4% Consolidated Marketplace $ 94.8 $ 83.4 $ 11.3 13.6% Non-Marketplace (*) 53.3 32.0 21.4 67.0% Total $ 148.1 $ 115.4 $ 32.7 28.4% (*) Includes, among other things, ad sales, real estate, motors, financing fees, off-platform payment fees and other ancillary services. (**) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. On a segment basis, our net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 , increased across all geographic segments, except for the Venezuelan segment . Brazil Marketplace revenue in Brazil grew 12.9 % in the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 . The growth was primarily a consequence of an increase in local currency volume of 11.6% and a 36.6% increase in our take rate (which we defined as net revenues as a percentage of gross merchandise volume) due to the increased adoption of our zero cost installment pricing . Those increases were partially offset by a local currency devaluation of 35.0%. The Non-Marketplace business grew 69 . 8 %, a n $1 1 . 4 million increase, during the same period, mainly driven by increases in the volume of financing transactions offered to our users and in shipping revenues. Argentina Marketplace revenues of our Argentine segment increased 63 . 8 % for the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 , mainly due to a 61.6% increase in local currency volume and 12.2% increase in our take rate, which we defined as net revenues as a percentage of gross merchandise volume. Those increases were partially offset by a local currency devaluation of 10.7% . The Non-Marketplace business grew 8 0. 9 %, a $ 7 . 7 million increase, during the same period mainly driven by increases in the volume of financing tr ansactions offered to our users and i n off-platform fees. Venezuela Marketplace revenues of our Venezuelan segment during the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 decreased by approximately 26 .0% when compared to the same period in 201 4 mainly due to a 383.8% local currency devaluation (see Foreign 39 Table of Contents Currency Translation Venezuelan currency status), partially offset by a 214.7% increase in local currency volume and a 13.8% increase in our take rate as a consequence of changes in certain caps that we applied to our fees for marketplace transactions. The Non-Marketplace business decreased 44 .5%, or $ 0 . 9 million during the same period, mainly by the devaluation mentioned above , partially offset by an increase in the volume of transactions . Mexico Marketplace revenue in Mexico grew 3 . 1 % during the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period of 201 4 . The increase in our Mexican marketplace revenues reflects a 9.1% increase in our take rate and a 9.1% increase in local currency volume, partially offset by a 15.4% devaluation of the local currency. The Non-Marketplace business grew 60 .9%, a $ 1 . 2 million increase, during the same period, driven by an increase in the volume of real estate listings, which was largely a consequence of our second quarter 2014 acquisition of Guia de Inmuebles.com, a website that operates an online classified advertisements platform dedicated to the sale of real estate in Mexico. The following table sets forth our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly growth of these net revenues for the periods described below: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (in millions, except percentages) (*) 2015 Net revenues $ 148.1 n/a n/a n/a Percent change from prior quarter -8% 2014 Net revenues $ 115.4 $ 131.8 $ 147.9 $ 161.4 Percent change from prior quarter -14% 14% 12% 9% 2013 Net revenues $ 102.7 $ 112.2 $ 123.1 $ 134.7 Percent change from prior quarter -1% 9% 10% 9% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The following table sets forth the growth in net revenues in local currencies for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 as com pared to the same period in 2014 : (% of revenue growth in Local Currency) Changes from 2014 to 2015 (*) Brazil 58.4% Argentina 93.9% Venezuela 284.1% Mexico 31.8% Other Countries 33.3% Total Consolidated 100.2% (*) The local currency revenue growth was calculated by using the average monthly exchange rates for each month during 201 4 and applying them to the corresponding months in 201 5 , so as to calculate what our financial results would have been had exchange rates remained stable from one year to the next. In Venezuela, the significant increase in our net revenues is mainly due to higher average selling prices pos ted by sellers during the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 , which we do not control. The increase in average selling prices is a consequence of: (i) an approximately 69% inflation rate in that country; (ii) a shortage of products in Venezuela and (iii) changes in the mix of categories of the items sold in our marketplace. In the case of Argentina, we have not observed material differences between the rate of inflation and the rate of currenc y devaluation of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. dollar during the three- month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period of 201 4 . For more explanation of the revenue growth, see above mentioned disclosures in this section. 40 Table of Contents C ost of net revenues Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total cost of net revenues $ 44.7 $ 31.5 $ 13.2 41.8% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 30.2% 27.3% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three-month period ended March 31, 201 5 as compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 201 4 , the increase of $ 13 . 2 million in cost of net revenues was primarily attributable to : i) an increase in collection fees amounting to $ 7 . 7 million, or 52.0 %, which was mainly attributable to our Argentine and Brazilian operations as a result of the higher penetration of MercadoPago in those countries . For the three months ended March 31, 2015, total payment volume ( TPV ) represents 62.9% of our total gross merchandise volume ( GMV ) (excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate) as compared to 36.9% for the three- month period ended March 31, 2014; ii) an increase in sales taxes amounting to $3.6 million, mainly related to our Argentine and Brazilian operations; iii) a $1.1 million increase in salaries and wages; iv) a $0.5 million increase in other costs and v) a $0. 2 million increase in certain banking tax related costs in Argentina. Product and technology developmen t expenses Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Product and technology development $ 17.2 $ 12.3 $ 5.0 40.7% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 11.6% 10.6% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 , the increase in product and technology development expenses as compared to the same period in 2014 amounted to $5.0 million or 40.7%. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $3.3 million in salaries due to: i) compensation costs related to the LTRP as a consequence of an increase in the fair m arket value of our shares; and ii) the hiring of more engineers, as we continue to invest in top - quality talent to develop enhancements and new features across our platforms. Finally, depreciation and amortization grew during the three -month period ended on March 3 1 , 201 5 by $1.0 million as compared to the same period in 2014, and other product and development expenses grew by $0.6 million during the same peiord . We believe product development is one of our key competitive advantages and intend to continue to invest in hiring engineers to meet the increasingly sophisticated product expectations of our customer base. Sales and marketing expenses Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 26.2 $ 22.4 $ 3.9 17.2% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 17.7% 19.4% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. 41 Table of Contents For the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 , the $3.9 million increase in sales and marketing expenses when compared to the same period in 201 4 was primarily attributable to: i) an increase of $1.9 million in on line portal deals expenses; ii) a $2. 2 million increase in expenses related to our buyer protection program and iii) a $1.0 million increase in salaries and wages. These increases in sales and marketing expenses were partially offset by a decrease in bad debt of $1.9 million, which represented 2.6% of our net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 as compared to a bad debt expense equal to 5.0% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2014. General and administrative expenses Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 18.1 $ 15.2 $ 2.9 19.1% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 12.2% 13.2% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, the $2.9 million increase in general and administrative expenses when compared to the same period in 2014 was primarily attributable to: i) a $3.9 million increase in salaries and wages and ii) a $0.6 million increase in depreciation and amortization expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $1.4 million net decrease in other general and administrative expenses. Impairment of Long-Lived assets Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets $ 16.2 $ $ 16.2 100.0% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 11.0% 0.0% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three month period ended March 31, 2015 when compared with the same period in 2014, the $16.2 million increase in impairment of long-lived assets was attributable to the impairment of certain real estate offices recorded during the first quarter of 2015 owned by our Venezuelan subsidiaries. For further information, see section Foreign Currency Translation Venezuelan currency status. Other income / (expense), net Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Other income / (expense), net $ (9.2) $ 5.1 $ (14.3) -280.6% As a percentage of net revenues -6.2% 4.4% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, the $14.3 million decrease in other income/ (expense), net when compared to the same period in 2014 was primarily attributable to a consolidated foreign exchange loss of $8.6 million in 2015 as compared to a $3.1 million gain in the same period in 2014. The 2015 foreign exchange loss was a consequence of a $20.4 million foreign exchange loss in Venezuela as a result of start using the SIMADI exchange rate since March 31, 2015, partially offset by a foreign exchange gain in Brazil of $ 10 . 1 million and a $1.0 million foreign exchange gain in Argentina. Additionally, during the 42 Table of Contents three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 , interest income increased $ 1. 3 million and interest expense increased by $4. 0 million as compared to the same period in 201 4 due to the Convertible Notes issue d on June 30, 2014 . Income and asset tax Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Income and asset tax $ 14.7 $ 8.8 $ 5.9 67.0% As a percentage of net revenues (*) 9.9% 7.6% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. During the three-month period ended March 31 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 , income and asset tax increased by $ 5 . 9 million, mainly as a consequence of an increase in taxable income and in permanent differences period over period mainly in Brazil and Argentina . Our blended tax rate is defined as income and asset tax expense as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. Our effective income tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes (net of charges related to dividend distributions from foreign subsidiaries that are offset with domestic foreign tax credits) as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. The effective income tax rate excludes the effects of the deferred income tax, and the assets and complementary income tax. The following table summarizes our blended and effective tax rates for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Blended tax rate 89.5% 22.4% Effective tax rate 100.1% 39.3% Our blended and effective tax rates for the three-month period ended March 31, 201 5 increased significantly as compared to the same period in 2014 mainly due to a significant reduction in net income before tax as a result of a one-time loss recorded in our Venezuelan subsidiaries on March 31, 2015 related to the impairment of long-lived assets and the devaluation of the BsF net asset position. The impairment of long-lived assets is non-deductible for tax purposes. Additionally, our Argentine subsidiaries benefited from a software development law that granted a relief of 60% of income tax, which expired during September 2014. Because we have not received any confirmation regarding our ability to benefit from the new software development law that will grant some level of relief for income tax purposes , we did not record any income tax holiday since the last quarter of 2014, ended on December 31, 2014 . The following table sets forth our effective income tax rate related to our main segments for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 2014 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Effective tax rate by country Argentina 43.0% 28.9% Brazil 26.9% 36.9% Mexico 19.5% 30.4% Venezuela -0.5% 55.7% Our Argentine subsidiaries benefited from a software development law that grants a relief of 60% of total income tax determined in each year. Mainly for that reason, our Argentine operations effective income tax rate for the three-month period ended 43 Table of Contents March 31, 2014 was lower than the local statutory rate of 35%. On August 17, 2011, the Argentine government issued a new software development law and on September 9, 2013 a regulatory decree was issued, which established the new requirement to become a beneficiary of the new software development law. The new decree establishes compliance requirements with annual incremental ratios related to exports of services and research and development expenses that must be achieved to remain within the tax holiday. The Argentine operation will have to achieve certain required ratios annually under the new software development law. During May 2014, we presented all the required documentation in order to apply for the new software development law. At the date of this report, the companys application to be a beneficiary of this new law is still pending. As a consequence of the above mentioned situation, no tax holiday was recorded since the last quarter of 2014, ended on December 31, 2014. Additionally, the effective income tax rate was higher than the local statutory rate of 35% mainly as a result of changes in permanent tax differences . If we are successful in being admitted as beneficiaries under the new law, we estimate that the Argentine effective income tax rate would be materially lower than the statutory income tax rate. Also, the tax holiday under the new law would last until 2019. The decrease in our Brazilian effective income tax rate for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014 was mainly related to temporary differences deducted in the current period . For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, our Mexican effective income tax rate was lower than the local statutory rate of 30% due to the consumption of tax losses arising in prior years, which generates l ower provisions for income tax, jointly with other temporary differences. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, our Venezuelan negative effective income tax rate was driven by losses recorded during this period in our Venezuelan subsidiaries related to the impairment of long-lived assets and foreign exchange loss es , which generated a net loss before income tax. The impairment of long-lived assets charge is non-deductible for tax purposes. The income tax provision recorded as of March 31, 2015 is related to the pre-tax income of one of our Venezuelan subsidiaries which generated operating income during the period. We do not expect in the domestic effective income tax rate related to dividend distributions from foreign subsidiaries to have a significant impact on our company since our strategy is to reinvest our cash surplus in our international operations, and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. Segment information (In millions) Three-month Period Ended March 31, 2015 Brazil Argentina Mexico Venezuela Other Countries Total Net revenues $ 68.5 $ 47.4 $ 9.4 $ 14.0 $ 8.8 $ 148.1 Direct costs (39.7) (24.8) (6.0) (4.2) (5.2) (79.8) Impairment of Long-Lived Assets (16.2) (16.2) Direct contribution 28.8 22.6 3.5 (6.5) 3.6 52.1 Margin 42.1% 47.7% 36.7% -46.4% 41.1% 35.2% Three-month Period Ended March 31, 2014 Brazil Argentina Mexico Venezuela Other Countries Total Net revenues $ 52.4 $ 27.9 $ 8.1 $ 19.3 $ 7.7 $ 115.4 Direct costs (30.5) (16.9) (4.6) (5.6) (3.9) (61.6) Direct contribution 21.9 10.9 3.5 13.6 3.8 53.8 Margin 41.8% 39.3% 43.4% 70.7% 49.5% 46.6% Change from the Three-month Period Ended March 31, 2014 to March 31, 2015 (*) Brazil Argentina Mexico Venezuela Other Countries Total Net revenues $ 16.1 $ 19.6 $ 1.4 $ (5.3) $ 1.0 $ 32.7 44 Table of Contents 30.6% 69.6% 16.8% -27.9% 16.4% 28.4% Direct costs $ (9.2) $ (7.9) $ (1.4) $ 1.4 $ (1.3) $ (18.3) 30.0% 46.5% 30.4% -25.4% 32.1% 29.6% Impairment of Long-Lived Assets $ $ $ $ (16.2) $ $ (16.2) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% Direct contribution $ 6.9 $ 11.7 $ (0.0) $ (20.1) $ (0.2) $ (1.8) 31.5% 106.9% -1.1% -147.5% -5.8% -3.3% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Net revenues Net revenues for the three-month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 , are described above in Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net revenues. Direct costs and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Brazil For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as com pared to the same period in 2014 , direct costs increased by 30 .0%, mainly driven by: i) a 38 .7% increase in cost of net revenues, mainly attributable to an increase in collection fees as a consequence of higher penetration of MercadoPago business and sales tax costs, partially offset by a decrease in our website operation expenses; ii) a 20.4% increase in sales and marketing expenses, mainly due to an increase in online marketing expenses, salaries and wages and in buyer protection program expenses and other marketing expenses, partially offset by a decrease in off-line marketing expenses; iii) a 59.7% increase in product and technology development expenses, mainly due to an increase in salaries and wages and higher depreciation and amortization expenses; and iv) a 13.8% increase in general and administrative expenses, mainly attributable to an increase in salaries and wages. Argentina For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 , direct costs increased by 46 . 5 %, mainly driven by: i) a 6 8. 6 % increase in cost of net revenues, mainly attributable to an increase in collection fees, customer support costs, sales taxes and in certain banking tax related costs; ii) a 65 .7% increase in sales and marketing expenses, mainly due to an increase in on-line marketing expenses, bad debt and salaries and wages; and iii) a 85 . 3 % decrease in general and administrative expenses, which was primarily attributable to the write off of $2.4 million of credits as a consequence of the new software development law during first quarter of 2014. Mexico For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 , direct costs increased by 30 . 4 %, mainly driven by: i) a 32 . 2 % increase in cost of net revenues that was mainly attributable to an increase in collection fees, customer support fees and other costs; ii) a 66 . 8 % increase in product and technology development expenses, primary attributable to an increase in salaries and wages and depreciation a nd amortization expenses ; and iii) a 191 . 9 % increase in general and administrative expenses, mainly due to an i ncrease in salaries and wages and o ffice expenses . These increases were partially offset by a 2 . 2 % decrease in sales and marke ting expenses attributable to a decrease in bad debt and chargeback, partially offset by an increase in online marketing expenses. Venezuela During first quarter of 201 5 , we recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $ 16 . 2 million in our Venezuelan subsidiaries. As a consequence of this loss, the direct contribution of this segment decrease d significantly during the three - month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 . For the three -month period ended March 3 1 , 201 5 as compared to the same period in 201 4 , the increase in impairment of long-lived assets was partially offset by: i) a 7 . 9 % decrease in cost of net revenues that was mainl y attributable to a decrease in collection fees , sales taxes fees and salaries and wages ; ii) a 41 . 1 % decrease in sales and marketing expenses that was mainly attributable 45 Table of Contents to a decrease in salaries and wages, bad debt and chargebacks ; and iii) a 78 . 2 % decrease in product and technology development expenses attributable to a decrease in salaries and wages and communication and maintenance expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our main cash requirement historically has been working capital to fund MercadoPago financing operations in Brazil. We also require cash for capital expenditures relating to technology infrastructure, software applications, office space, business acquisitions, to fund the payment of quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock and to fund the interests payments on our recently issued Convertible Notes. Since our inception, we have funded our operations primarily through contributions received from our stockholders during the first two years of operations, from funds raised during our initial public offering, and from cash generated from our operations. As discussed above under Critical accounting policies and estimates we issued on June 30, 2014, $330 million principal balance of Convertible Notes for net proceeds to us of approximately $321.7 million. We have funded MercadoPago by discounting credit card receivables, with loans backed with credit card receivables and through cash advances derived from our business. At March 31, 2015, our main source of liquidity, amounting to $367.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and $190. 2 million of long-term investments was provided by cash generated from operations and from the issuance of the Convertible Notes. We consider our long-term investments as part of our liquidity because long-term investments are comprised of available-for-sale securities classified as long-term as a consequence of their contractual maturities. The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, funds receivable from and payable to MercadoPago users, and short-term debt. As long as we continue transferring credit card receivables to financial institutions in return for cash, we will continue generating cash. As of March 31, 2015 cash and investments of foreign subsidiaries amounted to $247.5 million, or 44.4% of our consolidated cash and i nvestments, and approximately 28 . 9 % of our consolidated cash and investments were held outside the U.S., mostly in Brazil and Argentina. Our strategy is to reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign operations in those operations and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. We do not expect a material impact in any repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries on our operations since the taxable domestic gains generated by any dividend distributions will be mostly offset with foreign tax credits that arise from income tax paid in our foreign operations, which we are allowed to compute for domestic income tax purposes. In the event we change the way we manage our business, our working capital needs could be funded, as we did in the past, through a combination of the sale of credit card coupons to financial institutions, loans backed by credit card receivables and cash advances from our business. The following table presents our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (*) (In millions) 2015 2014 Net cash provided by / (used in): Operating activities $ 38.2 $ 27.6 Investing activities 3.3 (14.1) Financing activities (7.5) (6.9) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (37.4) (15.7) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (3.4) $ (9.1) ( * ) The table above may not total due to rounding. 46 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities: Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash provided by: Operating activities $ 38.2 $ 27.6 $ 10.6 38.2% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. The $ 10 .6 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the three -month period ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily driven by a $19.3 million increase in cash operating income (operating income adjusted by one-time losses and non-cash operating results) , a $41.3 million increase in MercadoPago working capital, and a $ 18 . 6 million increase in accounts payable and accrued expenses . These increases in operating cash flow were partially offset by a $6 3 . 4 million increase in accounts receivables and credit card receivab les, a $2.5 million increase in prepaid expenses, and a $3.2 million increase in other assets. Net cash provided by ( used in ) investing activities Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash provided by (used in): Investing activities $ 3.3 $ (14.1) $ 17.5 -123.4% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. Net cash provided by investing activities in the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 resulted mainly from purchases of investments of $420.1 million partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments of $4 31 . 6 million, as part of our financial strategy. We used $0. 9 million in the purchase of intangible assets and $7.3 million in the purchase of property, plant and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities in the three-month period ended March 31, 2014 resulted mainly from purchases of investments of $386.8 million, which was partially offset by the sale and maturity of investments of $379.7 million, as part of our financial strategy. We used $0.1 million in the purchase of intangible assets and $7.0 million in the purchase of property, plant and equipment. Net cash used in financing activities Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2014 March 31, to 2015 (*) 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Cash used in: Financing activities $ (7.5) $ (6.9) $ (0.6) 8.3% (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. 47 Table of Contents For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, our pri mary use of cash was to fund $7.3 million of cash dividends paid on January 15, 2015 . In addition, we used $0.1 million for the payment of financial liabilities, for which payment was due during the first quarter of 2015. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2014, our primary use of cash was to fund $6.3 million of cash dividends paid on January 15, 2014. In addition, we used $0.6 million for the payment of financial liabilities, which were due during the first quarter of 2014. In the event that we decide to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future, we may fund them with available cash, third - party debt financing, or by raising equity capital, as market conditions allow. Debt On June 30, 2014, we issued $330 million of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the Notes). The Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of our Company, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1, at a rate of 2.25% per annum. The Notes will mature on July 1, 2019 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes may be converted, under the conditions specified below, based on an initial conversion rate of 7.9353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $126.02 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the Notes. Holders may convert their notes at their option at any time prior to January 1, 2019 only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after the calendar quarter ending on September 30, 2014 (and only during such calendar quarter), if the last reported sale price of the common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; (2) during the five business day period after any five consecutive trading day period (the measurement period) in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate events. On or after January 1, 2019 until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert their notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, we will pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. As of March 3 1 , 2 015 , none of the conditions allowing holders of the Notes to convert their notes had been met. In accordance with ASC 470-20 Debt with conversion and other options, the convertible debt instrument within the scope of the cash conversion subsection, was separated into debt and equity components at issuance and be assigned a fair value. The value assigned to the debt component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar debt without the conversion feature. As of June 30, 2014, we determined the fair value of the liability component of the Notes by reviewing market data that was available for senior, unsecured nonconvertible corporate bonds issued by comparable companies. Assumptions used in the estimate represent what market participants would use in pricing the liability component, including market interest rates, credit standing, and yield curves, all of which are defined as level 2 observable inputs. The difference between the cash proceeds and this estimated fair value, represents the value assigned to the equity component and is recorded as a debt discount. The debt discount is amortized using the effective interest method from the origination date through its stated contractual maturity date. The initial debt component of the Notes was valued at $283.0 million, based on the contractual cash flows discounted at an appropriate market rate for a non-convertible debt at the date of issuance, which was determined to be 5.55%. The carrying value of the permanent equity component reported in additional paid-in-capital was initially valued at $47.0 million and recorded as a debt discount. This amount represents the total unamortized debt discount we recorded at the time of issuance of the Notes. The aggregate debt discount, including the transaction costs related to the debt component, is amortized as interest expense over the contractual term of the Notes using the effective interest method using an interest rate of 6.1%. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015; the total interest expense recognized for the Convertible Notes amounted to $4.3 million. Capped call transactions The net proceeds from the Notes were approximately $321.7 million after considering the transaction costs in an amount of $8.3 million. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we paid approximately $19.7 million to enter into capped call transactions with respect to its common stock (the Capped Call Transactions), with certain financial institutions. The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in the event that the 48 Table of Contents market price of our common stock is greater than the strike price of the Capped Call Transactions, initially set at $126.02 per common share, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes and is subject to anti-dilution adjustments substantially similar to those applicable to the conversion rate of the Notes, and have a cap price of approximately $155. 78 per common share. Therefore, as a result of executing the Capped Call Transactions, we will reduce our exposure to potential dilution once the market price of its common shares exceeds the strike price of $126.02 and up to a ca p price of approximately $155.78 per common share. The Capped Call Transactions allow us to receive shares of our common stock and/or cash related to the excess conversion value that we would pay to the holders of the Notes upon conversion, up to the above mentioned cap price. The $19.7 million cost of the capped call transactions, which net of deferred income tax effect amounts to $12.8 million, is included as a net reduction to additional paid-in capital in the stockholders equity section of our consolidated balance sheets, in accordance with the guidance in ASC 815-40 Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity. Cash Dividends In each of February, April, July and October of 2014, our b oard of d irectors declared quarterly cash dividends of $7. 3 million (or $0.166 per share on our outstanding shares of common stock). The dividends were paid on April 15, July 15, October 15, 2014 and January 15, 2015 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 29, June 30, Sept ember 30, and December 31, 2014, respectively. On February 24, 2015, our board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $4.6 million (or $0.103 per share) on the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock. The first quarterly dividend was paid on April 15, 2015 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, 2015 We currently expect to continue paying comparable cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, any future determination as to the declaration of dividends on our common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, operating and financial condition, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors, including the applicable requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law . Capital expenditures Our capital expenditures (comprised by our payments for property and equipment, intangible assets and acquired business) for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 amounted to $8.3 million and $7. 1 million, respectively. During the three-months ended March 31, 2015 we invested $4.4 million and $1.4 million in our Argentine and Brazilian offices respectively, and $0.9 million in Information Technology in Argentina. We are permanently increasing the level of investment on hardware and software licenses necessary to improve and update the technology of our platform and cost of computer software developed internally. We anticipate continued investments in capital expenditures related to information technology in the future as we strive to maintain our position in the Latin American e-commerce market. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including the sale of credit card receivables and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, property and equipment expenditures and to pay or repay obligations going forward. Off-balance sheet arrangements As of March 3 1 , 201 5 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Recent accounting pronouncements On January 9, 2015, the FASB issued the ASU 2015-01. This new standard eliminates from general accepted accounting principles the concept of extraordinary items included in Subtopic 225-20. The new standard is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is permitted provided that the guidance is applied from the beginning of the year of adoption. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact in our financial statements. 49 Table of Contents On February 18, 2015 the FASB issued the ASU 2015-02. The update affects reporting entities that are required to evaluate whether they should consolidate certain legal entities and is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. The amendments eliminate three of the six conditions for evaluating whether a fee paid to a decision maker or a service provider represents a variable interest. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact in our financial statements. On April 7, 2015 the FASB issued the ASU 2015-03. To simplify presentation of debt issuance costs, the amendments in this update would require that debt issuance costs be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of debt liability, consistent with debt discounts or premiums. The amendments in this update are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact in our financial statements. On April 15, 2015 the FASB issued the ASU 2015-05. The amendments in this update will help entities evaluate the accounting for fees paid by a customer in a cloud computing arrangement by providing guidance as to whether an arrangement includes the sale or license of software. The amendments will be effective for annual periods, including interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2015. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statements. On May, 2015 the FASB issued the ASU 2015-07. The amendments in this update remove, from the fair value hierarchy, investments for which the practical expedient is used to measure fair value at net asset value. Instead, an entity is required to include those investments as a reconciling line item so that the total fair value amount of investments in the disclosure is consistent with the amount on the balance sheet. For public companies, this amendment is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. The amendment should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. We are assessing the effects that the adoption of this accounting pronouncement may have on our financial statements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we use free cash flows, adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share as non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. Reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure can be found in the tables included in this quarterly report. Non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance investors overall understanding of our current financial performance. Specifically, we believe that free cash flow provides useful information to both management and investors by excluding payments for the acquisition of property, equipment, of intangible assets and of businesses net of cash acquired, that may not be indicative of our core operating results. In addition, we report free cash flows to investors because we believe that the inclusion of this measure provides consistency in our financial reporting. Free cash flow represents cash from operating activities less payment for the acquisition of property, equipment and intangible assets and acquired businesses net of cash acquired. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by our operations after the purchases of property, and equipment, of intangible assets and of acquired businesses net of cash acquired. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for the period. 50 Table of Contents Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flows Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (*) (In millions) 2015 2014 Net Cash provided by Operating Activities $ 38.2 $ 27.6 Purchase of intangible assets (0.9) (0.1) Purchase of property and equipment (7.3) (7.0) Free cash flow 29.9 20.5 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. Moreover, we believe that adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign exchange loss attributable to the devaluation in Venezuela and the impairment of long-lived assets, because it may not be indicative of the ordinary course of our business. In addition, we report adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share to investors because we believe that the inclusion of these measures provides consistency in the Companys financial reporting and because these financial measures provide useful information to management and investors about what our adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share, would have been, had the foreign exchange loss in Venezuela and the impairment of long-lived assets not occurred. A limitation of the utility of adjusted net income before income / asset tax, adjusted income / asset tax, adjusted net income, adjusted blended tax rate and adjusted earnings per share, as measures of financial performance, is that these measures do not represent the total foreign exchange effect in our Income Statement for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 2014: Three-months periods ended (**) March 31, 2015 March 31, 2014 Net income before income / asset tax expense $ 16.4 $ 39.1 Devaluation loss in Venezuela 20.4 1.3 Impairment of long-lived assets in Venezuela 16.2 Adjusted Net income before income / asset tax expense $ 53.0 $ 40.4 Income and asset tax expense $ (14.7) $ (8.8) Income tax effect on devaluation loss in Venezuela (3.8) (1) (3.9) (1) Adjusted Income and asset tax $ (18.5) $ (12.7) Net Income $ 1.7 $ 30.3 Devaluation loss in Venezuela 20.4 1.3 Impairment of long-lived assets in Venezuela 16.2 Income tax effect on devaluation loss in Venezuela (3.8) (1) (3.9) (1) Adjusted Net Income $ 34.6 $ 27.7 Weighted average of outstanding common shares 44,154,932 44,153,818 Adjusted Earnings per share $ 0.78 $ 0.63 Adjusted Blended Tax Rate (2) 34.8% 31.4% (**) Stated in millions of U.S. dollars , except for share data . The table above may not total due to rounding. (1) Income tax charge related to the Venezuela devaluation under local tax norms. (2) Adjusted Income and asset tax over Adjusted Net income before income / asset tax expense. It em 3 Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure About Market Risk We are exposed to market risks arising from our business operations. These market risks arise mainly from the possibility that changes in interest rates and the U.S. dollar exchange rate with local currencies, particularly the Brazilian Real and Argentine Peso due to Brazils and Argentines respective share of our revenues, may affect the value of our financial assets and liabilities. 51 Table of Contents Foreign currencies As of March 31, 2015, we hold cash and cash equivalents in local currencies in our subsidiaries, and have receivables denominated in local currencies in all of our operations. Our subsidiaries generate revenues and incur most of their expenses in their local currencies. As a result, our subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency, except for our Venezuelan subsidiaries , which use the U.S. dollar as if it is the functional currency due to Venezuela being a highly inflationary economy. As of March 31, 2015, the total cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies totaled $100. 6 million, short-term investments denominated in foreign currencies totaled $ 71 . 4 million and accounts receivable and credit cards receivables in foreign currencies totaled $ 165 . 3 million. As of March 31, 2015, we had no long-term investments denominated in foreign currencies. To manage exchange rate risk, our treasury policy is to transfer most cash and cash equivalents in excess of working capital requirements into U.S. dollar-denominated accounts in the United States. As of March 31, 2015, our U.S. dollar-denominated cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $195.8 million and our U.S. dollar-denominated long-term investments totaled $190.2 million. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2015, we had a consolidated loss on foreign currency of $ 8 . 6 million mainly as a result of the devaluation in Venezuela (as a consequence of our determination to use the exchange rate under SIMADI effective as of March 31, 2015 ) which amounted to a loss of $2 0 . 4 million offset by a foreign exchange gain in Argentina and Brazil in first quarter 2015, which amounted to a gain of $11.1 million. (See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2014 Other income, net for more information). If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and net income while the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars will have a negative impact in our Statement of Income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses and net income will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, while the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars will have a positive impact in our Statement of Income. The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues by segment for the three-month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, (% of total consolidated net revenues) (*) 2015 2014 Brazil 46.3 % 45.4 % Argentina 32.0 24.2 Venezuela 9.4 16.8 Mexico 6.4 7.0 Other Countries 5.9 6.5 (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole -dollar amounts . Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis The table below shows the impact on our net revenues, expenses, other expenses and income tax, net income and equity for a positive and a negative 10% fluctuation on all the foreign currencies to which we are exposed to as of March 3 1 , 201 5 and for the three -month period then ended: Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis (In millions) -10% Actual +10% (1) (2) Net revenues $ 164.5 $ 148.1 $ 134.7 Expenses (136.0) (122.5) (111.4) Income from operations 28.5 25.6 23.2 Other expenses and income tax related to P&L items (14.6) (15.3) (12.6) Foreign Currency impact related to the remeasurement of our Net Asset position (11.6) (8.6) (9.4) Net income 2.3 1.7 1.2 Total Shareholders' Equity $ 332.5 $ 331.1 $ 299.0 52 Table of Contents (1) Appreciation of the subsidiaries local currency against U.S. Dollar (2) Depreciation of the subsidiaries local currency against U.S. Dollar The table above may not total due to rounding. The table above shows an increase in our net income when the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies because the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars has a lesser impact than the increase in our net revenues, operating expenses, and other expenses, net and income tax lines related to the translation effect. Similarly, the table above shows a decrease in our net income when the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies because the re-measurement of our net asset position in U.S. dollars has a lesser impact than the decrease in our net revenues, operating expenses, and other expenses, net and income tax lines related to the translation effect. In the past we have entered into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure; however, during the three -months ended March 3 1 , 201 5 , we did not enter into any such hedging transactions. Venezuelan Segment In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary since January 1, 2010 , using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for purposes of reporting our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect has been accounted for in other comprehensive income related to our Venezuelan operations. As of March 3 1 , 201 5 , monetary assets and liabilities in BsF were re-measured to the U.S. dollar using the SIMADI closing exchange rate of 192.95 BsF per U.S. dollar . The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations, as of March 3 1 , 201 5 and December 31, 201 4 and net revenues for the three -month periods ended March 3 1 , 201 5 and 201 4 : Three-month Periods Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net Revenues $ 13,955 $ 19,357 March 31, December 31, 2015 2014 Assets 41,587 75,153 Liabilities (38,565) (43,359) Net Assets $ 3,022 $ 31,794 As of March 31, 201 5 , the net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries amount to approximately 0. 9 % of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiaries held in local currency in Venezuela amount to approximately 1.3% of our consolidated cash and investments. During December 2013, the Venezue lan regulation that created SICAD 1 was amended to expand its use, and to require publication of the average exchange rate implied by transactions settled in SICAD 1 auctions. Additionally, on January 23, 2014, the exchange regulation was amended to include foreign currency sales for certain transactions, such a s but not limited to: contracts for leasing and services, use and exploitation of patents, trademarks, foreign investments and payments of royalties, contracts for technology import and technical assistance. Due to the change in rules that provided for the creation of the SICAD 1 system, the official exchange rate remains only available to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government , which does not include those relating to our business. As a consequence, SICAD 1 became, from that moment through May 15, 2014 , the primary system to which we would have to request U.S. dollars to settle our transactions. As a result, from January 24 to May 15, 2014, the exchange rate we used to re-measure our net monetary asset position and BsF transactions of our Venezuelan operations was the SICAD 1 exchange rate. The average exchange rate under SICAD 1 during the first quarter of 2014 was 10.1 BsF per U.S. dollar. In late February 2014, the Venezuelan government issued a decree to open a new exchange control mechanism (SICAD 2) that allowed the purchase of foreign exchange currencies, through authorized foreign exchange operators offered by individuals and companies such as Petrleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PDVSA, the oil state-owned corporation of Venezuela), the BCV and other public entities authorized by the Ministry of Finance. The Venezuelan government published operating rules for the new exchange mechanism in Exchange Agreement N 27 and, on March 24, 2014 SICAD 2 began operating. Since implementation of the SICAD 1 53 Table of Contents system, we had been unsuccessful in gaining access to U.S. dollars through SICAD 1. As a result of this ongoing lack of access to the SICAD 1 auction system and the establishment of SICAD 2, on May 16, 2014, we started requesting U.S. dollars through the SICAD 2 mechanism. The SICAD 2 system was an open mechanism that permit t ed any company to request U.S. dollars for any purpose. Consequently, we were eligible for and were granted U.S. dollars through the SICAD 2 mechanism . Until 2010 we were able to obtain U.S. dollars for any purpose, including dividend distribution s , using alternative mechanisms other than through the CADIVI. Those U.S. dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Our Venezuelan subsidiaries have not requested authorization since 2012 to acquire U.S. dollars to make dividend distributions and we have not distributed dividends from our Venezuelan subsidiaries since 2011. In light of the current economic conditions in Venezuela in the second quarter of 2014 , our determination to access SICAD 2 and re-measure the BsF denominated monetary assets and liabilities of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows then expected from our Venezuelan operations, during the second quarter of 2014, we reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment, including considering our then expected use of these assets in light of the foregoing. We currently own two office spaces in Venezuela that we had expected to use to support our main operating activities in that country. However, due to the economic conditions in Venezuela , we determined to rent these office spaces to third parties to generate rental income and will consider opportunities for disposal of these assets if real estate market conditions are favorable . Because we have concluded that the carrying value of these two real estate properties were not fully recoverable, we recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $49.5 million during May 2014. On February 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government issued a decree that unifies the two previous foreign exchange systems SICAD 1 and SICAD 2 into a new single system denominated SICAD, with an initial public foreign exchange rate of 12 BsF per U.S. dollar. The SICAD auction process remains available only to obtain foreign currency to pay for a limited list of goods considered to be of high priority by the Venezuelan government, which does not include those relating to our business. In the same decree the Venezuelan government created the SIMADI, a new foreign exchange system that is separate from SICAD, which publishes a foreign exchange rate from the BCV on a daily basis. In light of the disappearance of SICAD 2, and our inability to gain access to U.S. dollars through the new single system under SICAD, we started requesting and have been granted U.S. dollars through SIMADI. As a result, we now expect to settle our transactions through SIMADI and have concluded that the SIMADI exchange rate should be used to re-measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to re-measure the revenues and expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries effective as of March 31, 2015. In connection with this re-measurement, we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $20.4 million and a deferred income tax gain of $3.8 million during the first quarter of 2015. As of March 31, 2015, the SIMAD I exchange rate was 192.95 BsF per U.S. dollar. The average exchange rate for the first quarter of 2015 was 52.46 BsF per U.S. dollar. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows now expected from our Venezuelan business, we have reviewed our long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of March 31, 2015 will not be fully recoverable. As a result, we recorded an impairment of long-lived assets of $16.2 million on March 31, 2015 using the exchange rate as of that date . The carrying amount has been adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $9.2 million as of March 31 , 2015 by using the market approach and considering prices for similar assets. Although the current mechanisms available to obtain U.S. dollars for dividend distributions to shareholders outside of Venezuela imply increased restrictions, we do not expect that the current restrictions to purchase U.S. dollars will have a significant adverse effect on our business strategy with regard to the investment in Venezuela. In order to assist investors in their overall understanding of the impact on our Venezuelan segment reporting, we developed a scenario that considers an exchange rate of 192.95 BsF per U.S. dollar starting on January 1, 201 5 . These disclosures may help investors to project sensitivities, on segment information captions, to devaluations of whatever order of magnitude they choose by simple arithmetic calculations. The information is just a scenario and does not represent a forward-looking statement about our expectations or projections related to future events in Venezuela. The investors and other readers or users of the financial information presented in this caption are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this scenario. This information is not a guarantee of future events. The information disclosed below does not include any inflation effect, nor the devaluation impact related to the assumed devaluation or any other effect derived from the assumed devaluation. The information below should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this information is not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. The evolution of the Venezuelan economy and any future governmental interventions in the Venezuelan economy are beyond our ability to control or predict. New events could happen in the future in Venezuela and it is not possible for management to predict all such events, nor can it assess the impact of all such events on our Venezuelan business. 54 Table of Contents The table below provides specific sensitivity information of our Venezuelan segment reporting for the period indicated assuming an exchange rate of 193 BsF per U.S. dollar, applied for the period starting on January 1, 201 5 to March 31 , 201 5 : Three-month period ended March 31, 2015 Actual (*) Sensitivity (**) (In thousands) Net revenues $ 13,955 $ 3,801 Direct costs $ (4,204) $ (1,754) Direct contribution before impairment of Long-lived assets $ 9,751 $ 2,048 Direct Contribution Margin before impairment % 69.9% 53.9% Long-lived assets impairment $ (16,226) $ (16,226) Direct contribution after Long-lived assets impairment $ (6,475) $ (14,178) Direct Contribution Margin after impairment % -46.4% -373.0% (*) As reported. (**) Computing a hypothetical devaluation of the Venezuelan segment from January 1 to March 3 1 , 201 5 ( 193 BsF per U.S. dollar). Despite the continued uncertainty and restrictions relating to foreign currency exchange in Venezuela as described above, we believe that our underlying business in that country is competitively well-positioned and continues to exhibit solid growth, in terms of units sold, even while economic conditions in the Venezuelan economy remain difficult. As economic conditions in that country improve, we expect that our business in Venezuela will benefit accordingly. Although in May 2014 and March 2015 we experienced a strong devaluation of our business in Venezuela, we cannot assure you that the BsF will not experience further devaluations or that the Venezuelan government will not default on its obligations to creditors in the future, which may be significant and could have a material negative impact on our future financia l results of our Venezuela segment and value of our bolivar denominated net assets. However, for the reasons stated at the beginning of this paragraph, we remain strongly committed to our business and investment in Venezuela. Argentine Segment The Argentine government has implemented certain measures that control and restrict the ability of companies and individuals to exchange Argentine Pesos for foreign currencies. Those measures include, among other things, the requirement to obtain the prior approval from the Argentine Tax Authority of the foreign currency transaction (for example and without limitation, for the payment of non-Argentine goods and services, payment of principal and interest on non-Argentine debt and also payment of dividends to parties outside of the country), which approval process could delay, and eventually restrict, the ability to exchange Argentine Pesos for other currencies, such as U.S. dollars. Those approvals are administered by the Argentine Central Bank through the Local Exchange Market (Mercado Unico Libre de Cambios, or MULC), which is the only market where exchange transactions may be lawfully made. Further, restrictions also currently apply to the acquisition of any foreign currency for holding as cash within Argentina. Although the controls and restrictions on the acquisition of foreign currencies in Argentina place certain limitations on our current ability to convert cash generated by our Argentine subsidiaries into foreign currencies, based on the current state of Argentine currency rules and regulations, we do not expect that the current controls and restrictions, will have a material adverse effect on our business plans in Argentina or on our overall business, financial condition or results of operations. During January 2014 the Argentine Peso exchange rate against the U.S. dollar increased in approxim ately 23%, from 6.52 Argentine Pesos per U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2013 to approximately 8.0 Argentine Pesos per U.S. dollar. Due to the abovementioned devaluation, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2014, the reported net assets in our Argentine subsidiaries decreased by $14.6 million with the related impact in Other Comprehensive Income and the Company recognized a foreign exchange gain of $4.6 million. As of March 31, 2015, the Argentine Peso exchange rate was $8.82 per U.S. dollar. Had a hypothetical deval uation of 10% of the Argentine Peso against the U.S. dollar occurred on March 3 1 , 201 5 , the reported net assets in our Argentine subsidiaries would have decreased by approximately $7.1 million with the related impact in Other Comprehensive Income. Additionally, we would have recorded a foreign exchange gain amounting to approximately $2.2 million in our Argentine subsidiaries. Interest Our earnings and cash flows are also affected by changes in interest rates. These changes could have an impact on the interest rates that financial institutions charge us prior to the time we sell our MercadoPago receivables. As of March 3 1, 2015 , MercadoPagos funds receivable from customers totaled $ 133.6 million. Interest rate fluctuations could also negatively affect certain of 55 Table of Contents our fixed rate and floating rate investments comprised primarily of time deposits, money market funds, investment grade corporate debt secur ities and sovereign debt securities. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning products carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate securities may have their fair market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than predicted if interest rates fall. Under our current policies, we do not use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. As of March 3 1 , 201 5 , the average duration of our available for sale securities, defined as the approximate percentage change in price for a 100-basis-point change in yield, was 1.28%. If interest rates were to instantaneously increase (decrease) by 100 basis points, the fair market value of our available for sale securities as of March 31, 2015 could decrease (increase) by approximately $3.9 million. As of March 31, 2015, our short-term investments amounted to $148.1 million and our long-term investments amounted to $190.2 million . These investments can be readily converted at any time into cash or into securities with a shorter remaining time to maturity. We determine the appropriate classification of our investments at the time of purchase and re-evaluate such designations as of each balance sheet date. Equity Price Risk Our board of directors adopted the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 long-term retention plan (the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 LTRP, respectively) payable as follows: eligible employees will receive a fixed cash payment equal to 6.25% of his or her 2009 and/or 2010 and/or 2011 and/or 2012 LTRP bonus once a year for a period of eight years starting in 2010 and/or 2011 and/or 2012 and/or 2013 (the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Annual Fixed Payment, respectively ); and on each date we pay the Annual Fixed Payment to an eligible employee, he or she will also receive a cash payment (the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Variable Payment, respectively) equal to the product of (i) 6.25% of the applicable 2009 and/or 2010 and/or 2011 and/or 2012 LTRP bonus and (ii) the quotient of (a) divided by (b), where (a), the numerator, equals the Applicable Year Stock Price (as defined below) and (b), the denominator, equals the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 Stock Price, defined as $13.81, $45.75, $65.41 and $77.77 for the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 LTRP, respectively, which was the average closing price of the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. The Applicable Year Stock Price equals the average closing price of the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of the year preceding the applicable payment date. The 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 variable payment LTRP liability subjects us to equity price risk. In May 2013 the board of directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved certain amendments to the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 Long-Term Retention Plans (the Amended LTRPs), to give us (through the approval of the Compensation Committee) the option to pay the compensation due under the Amended LTRPs in cash, common stock or a combination thereof. We have granted the right to any Amended LTRP participant to request settlement in cash. The Amended LTRPs have been considered to be a substantive liability and classified accordingly in the balance sheet. On September 27, 2013, our board of directors, upon the recommendation of the compensation committee, approved the 2013 Long Term Retention Plan (the 2013 LTRP) and o n March 31, 2014, the board of d irectors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee approved the 2014 employee retention programs (2014 LTRP). If earned, payments to eligible employees under the 2013 and 2014 LTRP will be in addition to payments of base salary and cash bonus, the latter if earned, made to those employees. The awards under 2013 and/or 2014 LTRP are payable in cash, common stock or a combination thereof and, as we mentioned in the paragraph before for the others LTRP, we granted the right to any LTRP participant to request settlement in cash. In order to receive an award under the 2013 and/or 2014 LTRP, each eligible employee must satisfy the performance conditions established by the board of directors for such employee. If these conditions are satisfied, the eligible employee will, subject to his or her continued employment as of each applicable payment date, receive the full amount of his or her 2013 and/or 2014 LTRP bonus, payable as follows: the eligible employee will receive a fixed cash payment, common stock or a combination thereof, equal to 8.333% of his or her 2013 and/or 2014 LTRP bonus once a year for a period of six years starting in March 2014 and/or 2015 (the 2013 and 2014 Annual Fixed Payment, respectively); and on each date we pay the Annual Fixed Payment to an eligible employee, he or she will also receive a cash payment (the Variable Payment) equal to the product of (i) 8.333% of the applicable 2013 and/or 2014 LTRP bonus and (ii) the quotient of (a) divided by (b), where (a), the numerator, equals the Applicable Year Stock Price (as defined below) and (b), the denominator, equals the 2012 and 2013 Stock Price, d efined as $79.57 and $118.48 for the 2013 and 2014 LTRP, respectively, which was the average closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 56 Table of Contents trading days of 2012 and 2013, respectively. The Applicable Year Stock Price shall equal the average closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market during the final 60 trading days of the year preceding the applicable payment date. At March 3 1 , 201 5 , the total contractual obligation fair value of our 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 Variable Payment LTRP liability amounted to $ 38 .6 million . As of March 3 1 , 201 5 , the accrued liability related to the 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 Variable Payment portion of the LTRP included in Social security payable in our condensed consolidated balance sheet amounted to $24.6 million. The following table shows a sensitivity analysis of the risk associated with our total contractual obligation related to the 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 Variable Payment if our common stock price per share were to experience increases or decreases by up to 40%: As of March 31, 2015 MercadoLibre, Inc 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 Equity Price variable LTRP liability (In thousands, except equity price) Change in equity price in percentage 40% 176.95 53,993 30% 164.31 50,136 20% 151.67 46,279 10% 139.03 42,423 Static (*) 126.39 38,566 -10% 113.75 34,710 -20% 101.11 30,853 -30% 88.48 26,996 -40% 75.84 23,140 (*) Average closing stock price for the last 60 trading days of the closing date. It em 4