Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Any statements made or implied in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27 A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and should be evaluated as such. The words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, estimate, target, project, should, may, could, will and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally relate to information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, future economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate the effects of future regulation and the effects of competition. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans, projections and strategies, anticipated financial results, future events and financial trends affecting our business, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors (in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report) that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; government and central bank regulations; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition ; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America in general, and Venezuela in particular, and possible future currency devaluation and other changes to its exchange rate systems. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements . These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertaintiesmany of which are beyond our control-as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 24 , 2017, as updated by those described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part II of this report and in other reports we file from time to time with the SEC. You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report, our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because they are unknown to us or we do not perceive them to be a material risk that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. 23 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations presents the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the six and the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 ; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources and a discussion of our capital expenditures; a description of our non-GAAP financial measures; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Business Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the Company) is one of the largest online commerce ecosystems in Latin America. Our platform is designed to provide users with a complete portfolio of services to facilitate commercial transactions. We are a market leader in e-commerce in each of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, based on number of unique visitors and page views. We also operate online commerce platforms in the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua, Salvador, Panama, Bolivia, Guatemala, Paraguay and Portugal. Through our platform, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust environment that fosters the development of a large e-commerce community in Latin America, a region with a population of over 610 million people and one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates in the world. We believe that we offer technological and commercial solutions that address the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America. We offer our users an ecosystem of six integrated e-commerce services: the MercadoLibre Marketplace, the MercadoLibre Classifieds Service, the MercadoPago payments solution, the MercadoEnvios shipping service, the MercadoLibre advertising program and the MercadoShops online webstores solution. The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our marketplace, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list merchandise and conduct sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online payments solution. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off our marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely, easily and promptly send and receive payments online. Mercado Pago is currently available in: Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, Uruguay, Per and Chile. MercadoPago allows merchants to facilitate checkout and payment processes on their websites and also enables users to simply transfer money to each other either through the website or using the MercadoPago App, available on iOS and Android. Additionally, during 2016, we launched MercadoCredito, which is designed to extend loans to specific merchants and consumers. Our MercadoCredito solution allows us to deepen our engagement with our merchants and consumers by offering them additional services and is currently available in Argentina and Brazil. To further enhance our suite of e-commerce services we launched the MercadoEnvios shipping program in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Colombia and Chile. Through MercadoEnvios, we offer our sellers a cost-efficient way to utilize our existing distribution chain to fulfill their sales. Sellers opting into the program are able to offer a uniform and seamlessly integrated shipping experience to their buyers at competitive prices. Through MercadoLibre Classifieds Service, our online classified listing service, our users can also list and purchase motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, real estate and services in all countries where we operate. Classifieds listings differ from Marketplace listings as they only charge optional placement fees and never final value fees. Our classifieds pages are also a major source of traffic to our website, benefitting both the Marketplace and non-marketplace businesses. To enhance the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed our MercadoLibre advertising program, to enable businesses to promote their products and services on the Internet. Through our advertising program, MercadoLibres sellers and large advertisers are able to display product ads on our webpages and our associated vertical sites in the region. 24 Table of Contents Additionally, through MercadoShops, our online store solution, users can set-up, manage and promote their own online store. These stores are hosted by MercadoLibre and offer integration with the other marketplace, payment and advertising services we offer. Users can choose from a basic, free store or pay monthly subscriptions for enhanced functionality and value added services on their store. MercadoLibre also began developing and selling enterprise software solutions to e-commerce business clients in Brazil during the second quarter of 2015. Reporting Segments and Geographic Information Our segment reporting is based on geography, which is the current criterion we are using to evaluate our segment performance. Our geographic segments include Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (including Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Bolivia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Salvador, Guatemala, Paraguay, Uruguay and the United States of America (real estate classifieds in the State of Florida only)). Although we discuss long-term trends in our business, it is our policy to not provide earnings guidance in the traditional sense. We believe that uncertain conditions make the forecasting of near-term results difficult. Further, we seek to make decisions focused primarily on the long-term welfare of our company and believe focusing on short term earnings does not best serve the interests of our stockholders. We believe that execution of key strategic initiatives as well as our expectations for long-term growth in our markets will best create stockholder value. We, therefore, encourage potential investors to consider this strategy before making an investment in our common stock. A long-term focus may make it more difficult for industry analysts and the market to evaluate the value of our company, which could reduce the value of our common stock or permit competitors with short term tactics to grow stronger than us. The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net revenues by segment for the six and the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Six-months Periods Ended Three-month s Periods Ended June 30, June 30, (% of total consolidated net revenues) (*) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Brazil 57.6 % 50.5 % 56.9 % 51.5 % Argentina 27.0 32.4 27.8 33.9 Mexico 6.0 6.3 6.4 5.7 Venezuela 4.8 5.5 4.5 3.7 Other Countries 4.6 5.3 4.5 5.1 (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. The following table summarizes the changes in our net revenues by segment for the six and three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Six-months Periods Ended Change from 2016 Three-month s Periods Ended Change from 2016 June 30, to 2017 (*) June 30, to 2017 (*) 2017 2016 in Dollars in % 2017 2016 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 339.8 $ 180.4 $ 159.4 88.4 % $ 180.1 $ 102.9 $ 77.2 75.0 % Argentina 159.4 115.9 43.5 37.5 88.0 67.7 20.3 30.0 Mexico 35.7 22.6 13.2 58.3 20.2 11.5 8.7 76.3 Venezuela 28.6 19.6 9.0 46.1 14.2 7.5 6.7 90.1 Other Countries 26.9 18.8 8.1 43.1 14.1 10.1 4.0 39.1 Total Net Revenues $ 590.5 $ 357.3 $ 233.2 65.3 % $ 316.5 $ 199.6 $ 116.9 58.5 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. 25 Table of Contents Recent Developments Venezuela Foreign Currency Status On May 19, 2017, the BCV issued the Exchange Agreement No.38, which established a new foreign exchange mechanism under DICOM, replacing SIMADI. The new mechanism consists of auctions, administered by an auction committee, where sellers and buyers from the private sector may offer foreign currency under certain limits determined by the BCV. In light of the disappearance of SIMADI (which closed at 728.0 per U.S. dollar) , and our inability to gain access to U.S. dollars under SIMADI, we started the administrative proceedings to request U.S. dollars through DICOM. As a result, we expect to settle its transactions through DICOM going forward and concluded that the DICOM exchange rate should be used as from June 1, 2017 to measure our bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to measure the revenues and expenses of our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Therefore, a s of June 30, 2017, monetary assets and liabilities in Bolivares Fuertes (BsF) were re-measured to the U.S. dollar using the DICOM closing exchange rate of 2640.0 BsF per U.S. dollar. In connection with this re-measurement, we recorded a foreign exchange loss of $22.0 million during the second quarter of 2017. Considering this change in facts and circumstances and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows the n expected from the Venezuelan business, we reviewed our long-lived assets (including non-current other assets), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of June 30, 2017 would not be fully recoverable. As a result, on June 30, 2017, we recorded an impairment of offices and commercial property under construction included within non-current other assets of $2.8 million. The carrying amount of offices and commercial property under construction was adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $9.7 million as of June 30, 2017, by using the market approach and considering prices for similar assets. Description of Line Items Net revenues We recognize revenues in each of our five geographical reporting segments. Within each of our segments, the services we provide generally fall into two distinct revenue streams, Marketplace which includes our core business and Non-Marketplace which includes ad sales, classified fees , payment fees, shipping fees and other ancillary businesses. The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues by revenue stream for the six and the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Six-month s Periods Ended Three-month s Periods Ended June 30, (*) June 30, (*) Consolidated net revenues by revenue stream 2017 2016 2017 2016 (in millions) (in millions) Marketplace $ 355.2 $ 207.4 $ 196.7 $ 113.3 Non-Marketplace (**) (***) 235.2 149.9 119.8 86.4 Total $ 590.5 $ 357.3 $ 316.5 $ 199.6 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. (**) Includes, among other things, Ad Sales , Classified Fees , Payment Fees, Shipping Fees and other ancillary services. (***) Includes an amount of $140.2 and $87.2 of Payment Fees for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Includes an amount of $75.0 and $50.6 of Payment Fees for the three-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Revenues from Marketplace transactions are generated from: final value fees; and up-front fees . For Marketplace services, final value fees representing a percentage of the sale value that are charged to the seller once the item is successfully sold. Up-front fees are charged to the seller in exchange for improved exposure of the listings throughout our platform and are not subject to the successful sale of the items listed. 26 Table of Contents Revenues for Non-Marketplace services are generated from: payments fees; classifieds fees; ad sales up-front fees; shipping fees; and fees from other ancillary businesses. With respect to our MercadoPago service, we generate payment fees attributable to: commissions representing a percentage of the payment volume processed that are charged to sellers in connection with off Marketplace-platform transactions; commissions from additional fees we charge when a buyer elects to pay in installments through our MercadoPago platform, for transactions that occur either on or off our Marketplace platform; commissions from additional fees we charge when our sellers elect to withdraw cash; interest, cash advances and fees from customers and merchant credits granted under our MercadoCredito solution; and revenues from the sale of mobile points of sale products. Although we also process payments on the Marketplace, we do not charge sellers an added commission for this service, as it is already included in the Marketplace final value fee we charge. Through our classifieds offerings in motor vehicles, real estate and services, we generate revenues from up-front fees. These fees are charged to sellers who opt to give their listings greater exposure throughout our websites . Our Advertising revenues are generated by selling either display product and/or text link ads throughout our websites to interested advertisers. Finally, our shipping revenues are generated when a buyer elects to receive the item through our shipping service. When more than one service is included in one single arrangement with the customer, we recognize revenue according to multiple element arrangements accounting, distinguishing between each of the services provided and allocating revenues based on their respective estimated selling prices. We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the six month period ended June 30, 2017 and 2016, no single customer accounted for more than 5.0% of our net revenues. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in 19 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay, Venezuela, Bolivia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Salvador, Guatemala and Paraguay), and MercadoPago is available in 8 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay and Venezuela). Additionally, MercadoEnvios is available in 5 countries: Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia and Chile. The functional currency for each countrys operations is the countrys local currency, except for Venezuela where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar due to Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. SeeCritical accounting policies and estimatesForeign Currency Translation included below. Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the average monthly exchange rate. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as a cost of net revenues. T hese taxes represented 8.2 % of net revenues for the three-month period ended June 30, 2017, as compared to 9.1% for the same period in 2016. Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, fraud prevention fees, certain taxes on revenues, free shipping costs, certain taxes on bank transactions, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization, hosting and site operation fees, cost of mobile point of sale products sold and other operation costs. 27 Table of Contents Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, telecommunications costs and payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to us. Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs of marketing our platforms through online and offline advertising and agreements with portals and search engines, charges related to our buyer protection programs, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, chargebacks related to our MercadoPago operations, bad debt charges, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs. We carry out the majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. We enter into agreements with portals, search engines, social networks , ad networks and other sites in order to attract Internet users to the MercadoLibre Marketplace and convert them into registered users and active traders on our platform. We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our customer support efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform. General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, audit and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. Our general and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses) consists primarily of interest income derived from our investments and cash equivalents, interest expense related to financial liabilities and foreign currency gains or losses . Income tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes and asset taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. A valuation allowance is recorded when, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change in our deferred tax assets and liabilities during each period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and our board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies, management estimates or accounting policies since the year ended December 31, 2016 and disclosed in the Form 10-K. See Item Critical Accounting Policies. 28 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Translation All of our foreign operations (other than Venezuela since January 1, 2010, as described below) use the local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, these operating foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period , unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during the period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of the transaction are used. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss), a component of equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency (losses) gains. Venezuelan Currency Status Pursuant to U.S. GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary since January 1, 2010, using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for purposes of reporting our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect has been accounted for in other comprehensive income related to our Venezuelan operations. On March 9, 2016 the Central Bank of Venezuela (BCV) issued the Exchange Agreement No.35, which is effective since March 10, 2016. The agreement established a protected exchange rate (DIPRO) for certain transactions, such as but not limited to: imports of goods of the food and health sectors, as well as supplies associated with the production of said sectors; expenses relating to health treatments, sports, culture, scientific research, and other urgent matters defined by the exchange regulations. All foreign currency transactions not expressly provided in Exchange Agreement No.35 will be processed on the alternate foreign currency markets governed by the exchange regulations, at the floating supplementary market exchange rate (DICOM). Considering the significant devaluation and the lower U.S. dollar-equivalent cash flows the n expected from the Venezuelan business, the Company reviewed its long-lived assets (including non-current other assets), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of June 30, 2016 would not be fully recoverable. As a result, on June 30, 2016, the Company recorded an impairment of offices and commercial property under construction included within non-current other assets of $13.7 million. The carrying amount of offices and commercial property under construction was adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $12.5 million as of June 30, 2016, by using the market approach, and considering prices for similar assets. On May 19, 2017, the BCV issued the Exchange Agreement No.38, which established a new foreign exchange mechanism under DICOM, replacing previous SIMADI. The new mechanism consists of auctions, administered by an auction committee, where sellers and buyers from the private sector may offer foreign currency under certain limits determined by the BCV. In light of the disappearance of SIMADI (which closed at 728.0 per U.S. dollar ) , and the Companys inability to gain access to U.S. dollars under SIMADI, it started the administrative proceedings to request U.S. dollars through DICOM. As a result, the Company expects to settle its transactions through DICOM going forward and concluded that the DICOM exchange rate should be used as from June 1, 2017 to measure its bolivar-denominated monetary assets and liabilities and to measure the revenues and expenses of the Venezuelan subsidiaries. Therefore, a s of June 30, 2017, monetary assets and liabilities in Bolivares Fuertes (BsF) were re-measured to the U.S. dollar using the DICOM closing exchange rate of 2640.0 BsF per U.S. dollar. A s a consequence of the local currency devaluation, the Company recorded a foreign exchange loss of $22.0 million during the second quarter of 2017. Considering the significant devaluation and the lower U.S. dollar-equ ivalent cash flows the n expected from the Venezuelan business, the Company reviewed its long-lived assets (including non-current other assets), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life for impairment and concluded that the carrying value of certain real estate investments in Venezuela as of June 30, 2017 would not be fully recoverable. As a result, on June 30, 2017, the Company recorded an impairment of offices and commercial property under construction included within non-current other assets of $2.8 million. The carrying amount of offices and commercial property under construction was adjusted to its estimated fair value of approximately $9.7 million as of June 30, 2017, by using the market approach, and considering prices for similar assets. Until 2010 we were able to obtain U.S. dollars for any purpose, including dividend distributions, using alternative mechanisms other than through the Commission for the Administration of Foreign Exchange Control (CADIVI). Those U.S. dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiaries. We have not distributed dividends from our Venezuelan subsidiaries since 2011 . 29 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations of a net liability of $25.1 million and $15.8 million, as of June 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and net revenues for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016: Six-month s Periods Ended June 30, 2017 2016 Venezuelan operations (In millions) Net Revenues $ 28.6 $ 19.6 June 30, June 31, 2017 2016 (In millions) Assets 56.0 66.2 Liabilities (30.2) (23.0) Net Assets $ 25.8 $ 43.2 As of June 30, 2017, the net assets (before intercompany eliminations) of our Venezuelan subsidiaries amounted to approximately 5.6% of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiaries held in local currency in Venezuela amounted to approximately 1.5% of our consolidated cash and investments. Our ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela is negatively affected by the exchange restrictions in Venezuela that are described above. If our access to U.S. dollars becomes widely available at a more unfavorable rate than the current DICOM exchange rate (or if DICOM exchange rate experiences significant devaluation in the future), and we decided to use that alternative mechanism considering that exchange rate as the one applicable for re-measurement, our results of operations, earnings and value of our net assets in Venezuela would be negatively impacted, and we cannot assure that the impact would not be material. In addition, our business and ability to obtain U.S. dollars in Venezuela would be negatively affected by any additional material devaluations or the imposition of significant additional and more stringent controls on foreign currency exchange by the Venezuelan government in the future. Despite the current difficult macroeconomic environment in Venezuela, we continue managing, through our Venezuelan subsidiaries , our investment in Venezuela. Despite the current operating, political and economic conditions and certain other factors in Venezuela, we currently plan to continue supporting our business in Venezuela in the long run . In November 2013 the Venezuelan Congress approved an enabling law granting the president of Venezuela the authority to enact laws and regulations in certain policy areas by decree. This authority includes the ability to restrict profit margins and impose greater controls on foreign exchange and the production, import, and distribution of certain goods. Among other actions, the president has used this decree power to pass the Law of Costs, Earnings, and Fair Profits, which became effective in January 2014 and, among other provisions, authorizes the Venezuelan government to set fair prices and maximum profit margins in the private sector. On October 26, 2015, the decree number 2,074 was published in the Official Gazette of Venezuela, establishing certain definitions related to the determination of prices in that country. Despite we do not expect that this law together with the decree issued by the Venezuelan Government will have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations, considering the current difficult macroeconomic environment in Venezuela, the final potential effects remains uncertain. The effects of such potential effects, if any, would be recognized in our financial statements once the mentioned uncertainty is resolved. Allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers. Allowances for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. The allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks are recorded as charges to sales and marketing expenses. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future adverse changes to our historical experience for doubtful accounts and chargebacks could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows . We believe that the accounting estimate related to allowances for doubtful accounts and for chargebacks is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment . 30 Table of Contents Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our interim condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances and historical information related to actions filed against us at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events . Convertible Senior Notes On June 30, 2014, we issued $330 million of 2.25% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the Notes). The Notes may be converted, under specific conditions, based on an initial conversion rate of 7.9353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the Notes. The convertible debt instrument within the scope of the cash conversion subsection, was separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a fair value was assigned. The value assigned to the debt component was the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar debt without the conversion feature. As of June 30, 2014, we determined the fair value of the liability component of the Notes by reviewing market data that was available for senior, unsecured nonconvertible corporate bonds issued by comparable companies. The difference between the cash proceeds and this estimated fair value, represents the value assigned to the equity component and was recorded as a debt discount. The debt discount is amortized using the effective interest method from the origination date through its stated contractual maturity date. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we paid $19.7 million to enter into capped call transactions with respect to shares of our common stock (the Capped Call Transactions), with certain financial institutions. The Capped Call Transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the Convertible Notes in the event that the market price of our common stock is greater than the strike price of the Capped Call Transactions. The $19.7 million cost of the capped call transactions, which net of deferred income tax effect amounts to $12.8 million, is included as a net reduction to additional paid-in capital in the stockholders equity section of our consolidated balance sheets. For more detailed information in relation to the Notes and the Capped Call transactions, see Results of operations for the six-month period ended June 30, 2017 compared to the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 and the three-month period ended June 30, 2017 compared to the three month period ended June 30, 2016 Debt and Note 9 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements. Impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable . Furthermore, goodwill and certain indefinite life trademarks are reviewed for impairment at each year-end or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We believe that the accounting estimate related to impairment of long lived assets and goodwill is critical since it is highly susceptible to change from period to period because: (i) it requires management to make assumptions about gross merchandise volume growth, total payment volume, total payment transactions, future interest rates, sales and costs; and (ii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as our net income would be material. Managements assumptions about future sales and future costs require significant judgment. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Policies section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. Income taxes We are required to recognize a provision for income taxes based upon taxable income and temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable under currently enacted tax laws in each jurisdiction and an analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals, allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We also assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. As of June 30, 2017, we had a valuation allowance on certain foreign net operating losses based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our Income/asset tax expense line in our consolidated statement of income. 31 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation Our board of directors adopted long-term retention plans (LTRP s ), under which certain eligible employees receive awards. See