Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements regarding our future performance made or implied in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, estimate, target, project, should, may, could, will and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally relate to information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, the effects of future regulation and the effects of competition. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans, projections and strategies, anticipated financial results, future events and financial trends affecting our business, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and important factors (in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report) that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; government regulation; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America in general, and Venezuela and Argentina in particular, including Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy and new exchange rate system. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond our control as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and uncertainties (in addition to those referred to above and elsewhere in this report) that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 25, 2011. You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report and our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because we do not perceive them to be material that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. 29 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations has been organized to present the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and 2010; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources, a discussion of our capital expenditures and a description of our contractual obligations; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Business Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the company) hosts the largest online commerce platform in Latin America located at www.mercadolibre.com, which is focused on enabling e-commerce and its related services. Our services are designed to provide our users with mechanisms for buying, selling, paying, collecting, generating leads and comparing via e-commerce transactions in an effective and efficient manner. We are market leaders in e-commerce in each of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, based on unique visitors and page views. Additionally, we also operate online commerce platforms in the Dominican Republic, Panama and Portugal. Through our online commerce platform, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust online commerce environment that fosters the development of a large and growing e-commerce community in Latin America, a region with a population of over 550 million people and one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates in the world. We believe that we offer a technological and commercial solution that addresses the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America. We offer our users an eco-system of four related e-commerce services: the MercadoLibre Marketplace, the MercadoPago payments solution, the MercadoClics advertising program and the MercadoShops on-line stores solution. The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our marketplace, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list items and conduct their sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. Additionally, through online classified listings, our registered users can list and purchase motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, real estate and services. Any Internet user can browse through the various products and services that are listed on our web site and register with MercadoLibre to list, bid for and purchase items and services. To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online payments solution. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off the MercadoLibre Marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely, easily and promptly send, receive and finance payments online. As a further enhancement to the MercadoLibre Marketplace, in 2009, we launched our MercadoClics program to allow businesses to promote their products and services on the Internet. Through MercadoClics users and advertisers are able to place display and/or text advertisements on our web pages in order to promote their brands and offerings. MercadoClics offers advertisers a cost efficient and automated platform through which it will acquire traffic. Advertisers purchase, on a cost per clicks basis, advertising space that appear alongside product search results for specific categories and other pages. These advertising placements are clearly differentiated from product search results and direct traffic both to and off our platform to the advertisers destination of choice. To close out our suite of e-commerce services we launched, during 2010, the MercadoShops on-line stores solution. Through MercadoShops users can set-up, manage and promote their own on-line webstores. These webstores are hosted by MercadoLibre and offer integration with the other marketplace, payments and advertising services we offer. Users can choose from a basic, free webstore or pay monthly subscriptions for enhanced functionality and added services on their stores. Reporting Segments Our segment reporting is based on geographic areas, this being the current criteria we are using to evaluate our segment performance. Our geography segments include Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (such as Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Uruguay). In addition, we operate a real estate classifieds platform that covers some areas of Florida in the United States, the operations of which are included in our segment for other countries. 30 Table of Contents Recent Developments Launch of MercadoPago 3.0 in Mexico In February 2011, we started processing off-platform transactions in Mexico using our new direct payments product, MercadoPago 3.0, for any site in Mexico that elects to adopt it, while maintaining the escrow product for on-platform transactions. On April 15, 2011, we launched a new and improved version of our MercadoPago payments platform that may be used for all our marketplace transactions in Mxico. We also made offering MercadoPago obligatory in our marketplace listings (with the exception of free listings). MercadoPago 3.0, which had previously been available only in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Colombia, is designed to meet the growing demand for Internet-based payments systems in Latin America. In addition to improving the ease of use and efficiency of payments for purchases made in our marketplace, MercadoPago 3.0 also allows payments for transactions that occur outside of our platforms. Users are able to transfer money to other users with MercadoPago accounts and to incorporate MercadoPago as a means for payments on their independent commerce websites. In addition, with Mercado Pago 3.0 in Mexico, the MercadoPago processing fee for on-platform transactions is borne entirely by the seller through a single MercadoLibre-MercadoPago fee that entitles the seller to free usage of the MercadoPago platform for their sales. In the case of off-platform transactions, the seller will be required to pay a service fee. The finance fee of any transaction is paid by the buyer according to the installment plan elected. Finally, in Venezuela we have available MercadoPago 2.0, which is a closed system in which the buyer pays for its usage. Description of line items Net revenues We recognize revenues in each of our five reporting segments. Our reporting segments include our operations in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Venezuela and other countries (Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Portugal and Uruguay). We offer three types of up-front fees for three different combinations of placement and features. Up-front fees are charged at the time the listing is uploaded onto our platform and are not subject to successful sale of the items listed. Following this fee structure modification, revenues for the MercadoLibre Marketplace transacctions are now generated by: up front fees; final value fees; and online advertising fees. As from the third quarter of 2010, we offer payment processing through our MercadoPago solution at no added cost in Brazil and Argentina. This change in pricing implies that for Marketplace transactions we no longer charge our users a specific fee for processing on-platform payments as we did in the past. We do continue, however, to generate payment related revenues, reported within each of our reporting segments, attributable to: commissions charged to sellers for the use of the MercadoPago platform with respect to transactions that occur outside of our Marketplace platform; revenues from a financial charge when a buyer elects to pay in installments through our MercadoPago platform, both on transaction occurs on or off our Marketplace platform. The following table sets forth the percentage of consolidated net revenues by country for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010: Three Month Period Ended March 31, (% of total consolidated net revenues) 2011 2010 Brazil 56.5 % 57.4 % Argentina 17.2 % 18.2 % Venezuela 8.5 % 9.7 % Mexico 11.0 % 7.6 % Other Countries 6.8 % 7.2 % 31 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the changes in net revenues for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010: Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 March 31, to 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 34.7 $ 26.3 $ 8.4 31.8 % Argentina $ 10.6 $ 8.4 $ 2.2 26.6 % Venezuela $ 6.8 $ 3.5 $ 3.3 94.8 % Mexico $ 5.2 $ 4.5 $ 0.7 17.1 % Other Countries $ 4.2 $ 3.3 $ 0.9 26.3 % Total Net Revenues $ 61.5 $ 45.9 $ 15.5 33.8 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not add due to rounding We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, no single customer accounted for more than 1.0% of our net revenues. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in thirteen countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and Venezuela), and MercadoPago is available in six countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico and Venezuela). The functional currency for each countrys operations is the local currency, except for Venezuela whose functional currency is the US dollar due to Venezuelas status as a highly inflationary economy. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign Currency Translation included in this report. Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into US dollars at the average monthly exchange rate. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina, Venezuela and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as a cost of net revenues. These taxes represented 7.3% of net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011. Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, certain taxes on revenues, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization and hosting and site operation fees. Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, telecommunications costs and payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to our company. Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of marketing costs for our platforms through online and offline advertising, bad debt charges, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs. We carry out the vast majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. In that context, we enter in agreements with portals, search engines, social networks, ad networks and other sites in order to attract Internet users to the MercadoLibre Marketplace and convert them into confirmed registered users and active traders on our platform. Additionally, we allocate a portion of our marketing budget to cable television advertising in order to improve our brand awareness and to complement our online efforts. We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our supply efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers, through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform. General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, accounting and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. General and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas of our company: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources. 32 Table of Contents Other income (expenses) Other income (expenses) consists of interest income derived primarily from our investments and cash equivalents, foreign currency gains or losses, and other non-operating results. In addition, other income (expenses) included mainly interest expense related to the working capital requirements for our MercadoPago operations through the second quarter of 2010. Beginning in the third quarter of 2010 and for as long as we continue pre-selling credit card receivables there has been, and will in the future be, no interest expense included in Other income (expenses) line. Income and asset tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes and asset taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change during the period in our deferred tax assets and liabilities. Critical accounting policies and estimates The preparation of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect our reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. You should read the following descriptions of critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, the notes there to and other disclosures included in this report. Foreign Currency Translation Historically, all of our foreign operations have used the local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, these foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to US dollars using year end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the year. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive income (loss), a component of shareholders equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency gain /(loss). Until September 30, 2009, our Venezuelan subsidiaries assets, liabilities, income and expenses were translated at the official exchange rate of 2.15 Bolivares Fuertes per US dollar. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to use the parallel exchange rate rather than the official exchange rate to translate our Venezuelan financial statements. The following facts and circumstances have been considered in our analysis of the applicable exchange rate: At the date we changed the translation exchange rate (and as of the date of this report), we have not obtained dividends remittances at the official exchange rate (and we have not at the date of this report), The industry in which we operate may not influence our ability to access to the official exchange rate, The Commission for the Administration of Foreign Exchange (CADIVI) volume of approvals of the use of the Official Rate was down 50% on a year-to-year basis as of July 2009. CADIVI has not only delayed approvals but also removed many items from priority lists (current priorities appear to be food and medicine) causing delays in the repatriation of dividends for many companies. Consequently, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we translated our Venezuelan assets, liabilities, income and expense accounts using the parallel exchange rate. 33 Table of Contents As of the date of this report the Company did not buy dollars at the CADIVI official rate. In accordance with US GAAP, we have classified our Venezuelan operations as highly inflationary as of January 1, 2010 and have used the US dollar to be the functional currency for purposes of our financial statements. Therefore, no translation effect was accounted for in other comprehensive income since October 1, 2009 related to our Venezuelan operations. Until May 13, 2010, the only way by which US dollars could be purchased outside the official currency market was using an indirect mechanism consisting in the purchase and sale of securities, including national public debt bonds (DPNs) denominated in Bolivares Fuertes and bonds issued by the government that were denominated in US dollars. This mechanism for transactions in certain securities created an indirect parallel foreign currency exchange market in Venezuela that enabled entities to obtain foreign currency through financial brokers without going through CADIVI. Although the parallel exchange rate was higher, and accordingly less beneficial, than the official exchange rate, some entities have used the parallel market to exchange currency because, as already mentioned, CADIVI used not to approve in a timely manner the exchange of currency requested by such entities. Until May 13, 2010, our Venezuelan subsidiaries used this mechanism to buy US dollars and accordingly we used the parallel average exchange rate to re-measure those foreign currency transactions. However, on May 14th, 2010, the Venezuelan government enacted reforms to its exchange regulations and close-down such parallel market by declaring that foreign-currency-denominated securities issued by Venezuelan entities were included in the definition of foreign currency, thus making the Venezuelan Central Bank (BCV) the only institution that could legally authorize the purchase or sale of foreign currency bonds, thereby excluding non-authorized brokers from the foreign exchange market. Trading of foreign currencies was re-opened as a regulated market on June 9, 2010 with the Venezuelan Central Bank as the only institution through which foreign currency-denominated transactions can be brokered. Under the new system, known as the Foreign Currency Securities Transactions System (SITME), entities domiciled in Venezuela can buy US dollar denominated securities only through banks authorized by the BCV to import goods, services or capital inputs. Additionally, the SITME imposes volume restrictions on an entitys trading activity, limiting such activity to a maximum equivalent of $50,000 per day, not to exceed $350,000 in a calendar month. This limitation is non-cumulative, meaning that an entity cannot carry over unused volume from one month to the next. As a consequence of this new system, commencing on June 9, 2010, we have transitioned from the parallel exchange rate to the SITME rate and started re-measuring foreign currency transactions using the SITME rate published by BCV, which was 5.27 Bolivares Fuertes per US dollar as of June 9, 2010. For the period beginning on May 14, 2010 and ended on June 8, 2010 (during which there was no open foreign currency markets), we applied US GAAP guidelines, which state that if exchangeability between two currencies is temporarily lacking at the transaction date or balance sheet date, the first subsequent rate at which exchanges could be made shall be used. Accordingly, the June 9, 2010 exchange rate published by the Venezuelan Central Bank has been used to re-measure transactions during the above-mentioned period. During 2010 and previous years we were able to obtain U.S. dollars using alternative mechanisms other than the Venezuelan Commission of Foreign Exchange Administration (CADIVI). These dollars, obtained at a higher exchange rate than the one offered by CADIVI, and held in balance at U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, were used for dividend distributions from our Venezuelan subsidiary. As a result, during 2010, lack of CADIVI approval did not restrict our ability to distribute the full amount of our retained earnings as dividends related to fiscal years 2008 ($0.8 million), and 2009 ($1.8 million). In addition, during 2011, our Venezuelan subsidiary distributed dividends of a $4.2 million, related to earnings for fiscal year 2010, using existing cash balances held in the U.S. bank accounts of our Venezuelan subsidiaries. The following table sets forth the assets, liabilities and net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiaries, before intercompany eliminations, as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010. March 31, December 31, 2011 2010 Venezuelan operations Assets $ 19,930,242 $ 21,928,340 Liabilities (8,444,346 ) (8,212,581 ) Net Assets 11,485,896 13,715,759 Net assets of our Venezuelan subsidiary amount to approximately 6.3% of our consolidated net assets, and cash and investments of our Venezuelan subsidiary held in local currency in Venezuela amount only to approximately 5.1% of our consolidated cash and investments. 34 Table of Contents Although, the current mechanisms available to obtain US dollars for dividends distributions to shareholders outside Venezuela imply increased restrictions, the Company does not expect that the current restrictions to purchase dollars have a significant adverse effect on its business plans with regard to the investment in Venezuela. Impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired on this basis, the impairment loss to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Goodwill and certain indefinite life trademarks are reviewed at the end of the year for impairment or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Impairment of goodwill and certain trademarks are tested at the reporting unit level (considering each segment of the Company as a reporting unit) by comparing the reporting units carrying amount, including goodwill and certain trademarks, to the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a combination of the income or discounted cash flows approach and the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, goodwill or indefinite useful life intangible assets are considered impaired and a second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. No impairments were recognized during the reporting periods and managements assessment of each reporting units fair value materially exceeds its carrying value. We believe that the accounting estimate related to impairment of long lived assets and goodwill is critical since it is highly susceptible to change from period to period because: (i) it requires management to make assumptions about gross merchandise volume growth, future interest rates, sales and costs; and (ii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as our net income would be material. Managements assumptions about future sales and future costs require significant judgment. Allowances for doubtful accounts and chargebacks We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to sellers. Allowances for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. The allowance for doubtful accounts and chargebacks is recorded as a charge to sales and marketing expenses. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future changes in trends could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows. We believe that the accounting estimate related to allowances for doubtful accounts and chargebacks is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment. Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances and historical information related to actions filed against the Company at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings as described in Legal Proceedings in Item 1 of Part II of this report, Item 3 of Part I of our annual report on Form 10-K for our most recently completed fiscal year filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and in Note 8 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we will defend ourselves accordingly. However, even if successful, our defense could be costly and could divert managements time. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay damages or modify our business practices. Any of these consequences could materially harm our business and could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Income taxes We are required to recognize a provision for income taxes based upon taxable income and temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable under currently enacted tax laws in each jurisdiction and an analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals, allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets and liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. We also assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of deferred tax asset will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. At March 31, 2011, we had a valuation allowance on certain foreign net operating losses based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our Income/asset tax expense line in our condensed consolidated statement of income. 35 Table of Contents Results of operations for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 compared to three-month period ended March 31, 2010. The selected financial data for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 have been derived from our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Item 1 of Part I of this report. These statements include all normal recurring adjustments that management believes are necessary to fairly state our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Results of operations for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the full year ending December 31, 2011 or for any other period. Statement of income data Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2011 (*) 2010 (*) (Unaudited) Net revenues $ 61.5 $ 45.9 Cost of net revenues (14.3 ) (9.9 ) Gross profit 47.1 36.0 Operating expenses: Product and technology development (5.2 ) (3.2 ) Sales and marketing (13.2 ) (11.1 ) General and administrative (9.5 ) (6.2 ) Total operating expenses (27.8 ) (20.5 ) Income from operations 19.3 15.5 Other income (expenses): Interest income and other financial gains 1.9 0.8 Interest expense and other financial charges (0.6 ) (3.0 ) Foreign currency gains / losses (0.5 ) 0.4 Other income, net 0.0 Net income before income / asset tax expense 20.1 13.7 Income / asset tax expense (6.0 ) (4.1 ) Net income $ 14.1 $ 9.6 (*) Totals may not add due to rounding 36 Table of Contents Other Data Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 Number of confirmed registered users at end of the period 1 55.6 44.9 Number of confirmed new registered users during the period 2 2.7 2.3 Gross merchandise volume 3 954.0 731.6 Number of items sold 4 10.9 8.3 Total payment volume 5 245.2 123.8 Total payment transactions 6 2.6 1.1 Capital expenditures 3.0 1.4 Depreciation and amortization 1.5 0.9 1 Measure of the cumulative number of users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. 2 Measure of the number of new users who have registered on the MercadoLibre Marketplace and confirmed their registration. 3 Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions completed through the MercadoLibre Marketplace, excluding motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft and real estate. 4 Measure of the number of items that were sold/purchased through the MercadoLibre Marketplace. 5 Measure of the total U.S. dollar sum of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. 6 Measure of the number of all transactions paid for using MercadoPago. Net revenues Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 March 31, to 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total Net Revenues $ 61.5 $ 45.9 $ 15.5 33.8 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 100.0 % 100.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The 33.8% growth in net revenues from the first quarter of 2010 to the first quarter of 2011 resulted principally from a 30.4% increase in the gross merchandise volume (GMV) transacted through our platform from the first quarter of 2010 to the first quarter of 2011 and a 30.7% increase in items sold between those periods . In addition, there is a positive impact on US dollars figures mainly due to the appreciation of the Brazilian Real and because the parallel exchange rate used by our Venezuelan subsidiary in the first quarter of 2010 was 6.52 Bolivares Fuertes per US dollar as compared to 5.3 Bolivares Fuertes per US dollar for the first quarter of 2011. See Critical accounting policies and estimates Foreign currency translation for more detail. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, net revenues also include the net amount collected from financial institutions as a result of pre-selling installment-related financing receivables. We entered into these pre-selling agreements with the aim of substantially eliminating credit risk and optimizing financial cost. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, our net revenues have no financial related expenses. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, as we had assumed the financial risk of installment-related financing receivables, our MercadoPago financing revenues had an associated $3.4 million of financial expenses. Measured in local currencies, net revenues grew 25.5% in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period a year earlier. The local currency revenue growth was calculated by using the average monthly exchange rates for each month during 2010 and applying them to the corresponding months in 2011, so as to calculate what our financial results would have been had exchange rates remained stable from one year to the next. 37 Table of Contents In addition, net revenues increased slightly due to growth in our take rate, defined as net revenues as a percentage of gross merchandise volume, from 6.3% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 to 6.4% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011. The following table summarizes the changes in net revenues by each reporting segment for the three -month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010: Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 March 31, to 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 34.7 $ 26.3 $ 8.4 31.8 % Argentina $ 10.6 $ 8.4 $ 2.2 26.6 % Venezuela $ 6.8 $ 3.5 $ 3.3 94.8 % Mexico $ 5.2 $ 4.5 $ 0.7 17.1 % Other Countries $ 4.2 $ 3.3 $ 0.9 26.3 % Total Net Revenues $ 61.5 $ 45.9 $ 15.5 33.8 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table may not add due to rounding. On a segment basis, our net revenues for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same periods in 2010, increased across all segments In local currency, our revenues grew 25.5% in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in the previous year. The following table sets forth our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly growth of these net revenues for the periods described below: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (in millions, except percentages) (*) 2011 Net Revenues $ 61.5 n/a n/a n/a Percent change from prior quarter -1 % 2010 Net Revenues $ 45.9 $ 52.5 $ 56.0 $ 62.3 Percent change from prior quarter -6 % 14 % 7 % 11 % 2009 Net Revenues $ 32.3 $ 40.9 $ 50.6 $ 49.0 Percent change from prior quarter -3 % 27 % 24 % -3 % 2008 Net Revenues $ 28.8 $ 34.5 $ 40.3 $ 33.4 Percent change from prior quarter 7 % 20 % 17 % -17 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. 38 Table of Contents Cost of net revenues Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 March 31, to 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Total cost of net revenues $ 14.3 $ 9.9 $ 4.4 44.9 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 23.3 % 21.5 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, the increase in cost of net revenues as compared to the same period of 2010 was primarily attributable to a $1.6 million increase in collection fees which includes our payment processing fees. The increase in collection fees, which occurred primarily in Brazil and Argentina, was a result of the higher penetration of our Payment solution into our Marketplace, which has a higher collection fee cost. In addition, sales taxes on our net revenues increased by $1.5 million, or 48.3% for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period of 2010 mainly as a consequence of increases in net revenues. Moreover, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior year, expenditures related to our in-house customer support operations increased by $1.0 million primarily driven by an increase in compensation costs, recruitment, investments in improved service and initiatives to combat fraud, illegal items and fee evasion. Finally, during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in the prior year, our hosting expenditures grew $0.2 million because we occupied more space in data centers located in the U.S.. Product and technology development Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 to March 31, 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Product and technology development $ 5.2 $ 3.2 $ 2.0 59.9 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 8.4 % 7.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, the growth in product and technology development expenses as compared to the same periods in 2010 was primarily attributable to an increase of $1.0 million or a 60.8% increase in compensation costs. These additional compensation expenses were primarily related to increases in compensation costs, as we continue to invest in top quality talent to develop enhancements and new features across our platforms. We believe product development is one of our key competitive advantages and intend to continue to invest in adding engineers to meet the increasingly sophisticated product expectations of our customer base. Product and technology development expenses also grew during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as a consequence of increased depreciation and amortization expenses related to product and technology development of $0.4 million, or 61.6% compared to the same period in 2010 and an increase in maintenance expenses of $0.3 million compared to the same period in 2010. Sales and marketing Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 to March 31, 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 13.2 $ 11.1 $ 2.1 19.1 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 21.5 % 24.2 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. 39 Table of Contents For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, the increase in sales and marketing expenses when compared to the same period in 2010 was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million increase in compensation costs driven by higher salaries to retain talent, and a $0.7 million increase in bad debt charges in the 2011 period. Bad debt charges for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 represented 6.5% of net revenues versus 7.2% for the same period in 2010. In addition, sales and marketing expenses related to trust and safety expenses increased by $0.5 million in the first quarter of 2011 when compared to the same period in 2010, due to the increased use of our buyer protection program, developed to compensate buyers for unfulfilled transactions or other claims related to the quality of the purchased goods. In addition, other marketing expenses increased by $0.4 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period of the previous year. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 was partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in our online advertising expenses related to specific deals, as we have optimized investment allocation over the same period ended March 31, 2010. Online advertising represented 6.2% of our net revenues in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, down from 9.3% for the same period in 2010. General and administrative Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 to March 31, 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) General and administrative $ 9.5 $ 6.2 $ 3.3 52.3 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 15.4 % 13.5 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, the increase in general and administrative expenses as compared to the same period of 2010, was primarily attributable to a $1.8 million increase in compensation costs in the 2011 period related to increases in salaries to retain talent and to increases in our long term retention plan cost, a $0.6 million increase in outside services mainly related to legal and tax fees, a $0.4 million increase in office expenses mainly related to new offices in our main locations and to a $0.3 million related to other general and administrative expenses. Other income (expenses) Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 to March 31, 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Other income (expenses) $ 0.8 $ (1.8 ) $ 2.6 -142.4 % As a percentage of net revenues 1.2 % -3.9 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010, the decrease in other expenses was primarily a result of: (a) a $2.4 million decrease in financial expenses, because in the first quarter of 2011 as we pre-sold installment related financing receivables related to our payment solution to better managed credit risk and to generate increased predictability of the associated cost, there is no related financial expense; and (b) a $1.1 million increase in interest income and other financial charges related to higher interest income earned on our investments driven by higher interest rates and a greater volume of investments, particularly in Brazil. The increase in other income (expenses) was partially offset by an increase of $0.9 million in foreign currency losses, from $0.4 million of foreign currency gains in the first quarter of 2010 to a $0.5 million of foreign currency loss in the first quarter of 2011. The increase in foreign currency losses for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 was primarily due to losses in Brazil and Mexico attributable to the impact of the local currency appreciation on the cash balances held by our Brazilian and Mexican subsidiaries in US dollars during the first quarter of 2011 versus a devaluation of those local currencies in the first quarter of 2010. 40 Table of Contents Income and asset tax Three Month Period Ended Change from 2010 to March 31, 2011 (*) 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) Income and asset tax 6.0 4.1 1.9 47.0 % As a percentage of net revenues (*) 9.8 % 8.9 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, income and asset tax increased $1.9 million or 47.0% as a consequence of increases in our pre-tax income. In addition, our income and asset taxes expense margin was negatively impacted by increases in income tax charge in Brazil as a consequence of permanent tax differences period over period. Our blended tax rate is defined as income and asset tax expense as a percentage of income before income and asset tax. Our effective income tax rate is defined as the provision for income taxes (net of charges related to dividend distribution from foreign subsidiaries which are offset with domestic foreign tax credits) as a percentage of pre tax income. The effective income tax rate excludes the effects of the deferred income tax, and the Mexican tax called Impuesto Empresarial a Tasa nica (IETU). The following table summarizes the changes in our blended and effective tax rate for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Blended tax rate 29.9 % 29.8 % Effective tax rate 28.2 % 30.4 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. Our blended tax rate for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 was 29.9% and 29.8%, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate from the three-month period ended March 31, 2010 to the same period in 2011 was mainly due to our Brazilian businesses reorganization, generated as part of our tax planning strategy, permitted us to use tax loss carryforwards in that country. Our effective tax rate also decreased due to permanent tax differences in Venezuela that reduce our local effective tax rate. The following table sets forth our effective income tax rate related to our main locations as of March 31, 2011 and 2010: Three Months Ended March 31, 2011 2010 Effective tax rate by country Argentina 18.3 % 15.7 % Brazil 32.3 % 35.6 % Mexico 20.4 % 9.7 % Venezuela 29.7 % 46.4 % Our Argentine subsidiary is a beneficiary of a software development law granting it a relief of 60% of total income tax determined in each year. Mainly for that reason, as of March 31, 2011 and 2010, our Argentine operations effective income tax rate of 18.3% and 15.7%, respectively, are currently lower than the local statutory rate of 35%. If we had not been granted the Argentine tax holiday, we would have pursued an alternative tax planning strategy and, therefore, the impact of not having this particular benefit could result in a higher effective tax rate in Argentina, but not necessarily as high as the local statutory rate of 35%. 41 Table of Contents The increase in our Argentine operations effective income tax rate period over period is mainly related to variations in temporary tax differences. As of March 31, 2011 our Brazilian effective income tax rate is lower than the local statutory rate of 34% mainly because of the business reorganization generated as part of our tax planning strategy, which permitted us to use tax loss carryforwards in that country. As of March 31, 2010 our Brazilian effective income tax rate is higher than the local statutory rate as a consequence of variations in both temporary and permanent tax differences. As of March 31, 2011, our Mexican effective income tax rate is lower than the local statutory rate of 30% mainly because of variations in permanent tax differences. As of March 31, 2010, our Mexican effective income tax rate is lower than the local statutory rate mainly because of a business reorganization generated as part of our tax planning strategy, which permitted us to use tax loss carryforwards in that country (all tax loss carryforwards have been used in 2010) and due to variations in permanent tax differences. As of March 31, 2011, our Venezuelan effective income tax rate is lower than the local statutory rate of 34%, mainly as a consequence of a loss related to the local inflation adjustment that is not recorded for US GAAP purposes. As of March 31, 2010, our Venezuelan effective income tax rate is higher than the local statutory rate mainly because the loss generated by the re-measurement of our local-currency position recorded for US GAAP purposes cannot be computed for tax purposes. Our effective tax rate reflects the tax effect of significant operations outside the United States, which are generally taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35%, especially in the case of Argentina, where we have significant operations with an effective tax rate of approximately 18%. A future change in the mix of pretax income from these various tax jurisdictions would impact the Companys periodic effective tax rate. We do not expect such a change in mix to have a significant impact in the domestic effective income tax rate related to dividend distributions from foreign subsidiaries since our strategy is to reinvest our cash surplus in our international operations, and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our main cash requirement historically has been working capital to fund our MercadoPago financing operations in Brazil. We also require cash for capital expenditures relating to technology infrastructure, software applications, office space and to fund the payment of quarterly cash dividends on shares of our common stock. Since our inception, we have funded our operations primarily through contributions received from our stockholders during the first two years of operations, from funds raised during our initial public offering, and from cash generated from our operations. We fund MercadoPago by discounting credit card receivables and through cash advances derived from our business. At March 31, 2011, our principal source of liquidity was $54.1 million of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments and $101.8 million of long-term investments provided by cash generated from operations. The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued expenses, funds receivable from and payable to MercadoPago users, and short-term debt. As long as we continue transferring credit card receivables to financial institutions in return for cash, as we have done since the last quarter of 2008, we will continue generating cash. As of March 31, 2011, cash and investments of foreign subsidiaries amount to $130.6 million or 83.7% of our consolidated cash and investments and approximately 51.3% of consolidated cash and investments are held outside the U.S., mostly in Brazil. Our strategy is to reinvest our undistributed earnings of our foreign operations in those operations and to distribute dividends when they can be offset with available tax credits. We do not expect a material impact in any repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries on our operations since the taxable domestic gains generated by any dividend distributions will be mostly offset with foreign tax credits that arise from income tax paid in our foreign operations, which we are allowed to compute for domestic income tax purposes. In the event we change the way we manage our business, the working capital needs could be funded, as we did in the past, through a combination of the sale of credit card coupons to financial institutions, loans backed by credit card receivables and cash advances from our business. 42 Table of Contents The following table presents our cash flows from operating activities, investing activities and financing activities for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2011 and 2010: Three Month Period Ended March 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 15.2 $ 11.5 Investing activities (21.2 ) (23.0 ) Financing activities 0.0 (3.2 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 0.2 (0.4 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (5.9 ) $ (15.2 ) Totals may not add due to rounding. Net cash provided by operating activities Cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities. Three Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2010 to 2011 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Cash provided by: Operating activities $ 15.2 $ 11.5 $ 3.7 32.4 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The $3.7 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 compared to the same period in 2010 was mainly attributable to a $4.4 million increase in net income. Additionally, net cash provided by operating activities was impacted by a $2.6 million decrease in changes in account receivables in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 versus the same period of 2010, a $2.7 million increases in working capital related to our Payment solution, derived mostly from increases of funds payable to customers due to a higher amount of transactions in 2011, a $1.8 million increase in non-cash losses such as long term retention plan compensation expenses, depreciation and amortization, accrued interest and deferred taxes and a $0.7 million increase in other liabilities. These increases in cash provided by operations were partially offset by a $8.6 million decrease in changes in account payable. Net cash used in investing activities Three Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2010 to 2011 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Cash used in: Investing activities $ (21.2 ) $ (23.0 ) $ 1.8 -8.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. Net cash used in investing activities in the three-month period of 2011 resulted mainly from purchases of investments for $99.1 million. Additionally, we used $3.0 million of cash in the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 to make capital expenditures related to technological equipment, software licenses, new office space in Argentina and to office equipment in Brazil and Mexico. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2011, the increase in cash used in investment activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of $80.8 million of investments as part of our financial strategy. As of March 31, 2010, net cash used in investing activities resulted primarily from purchases of investments for $34.3 million. Additionally, in the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, we used $1.4 million of cash for capital expenditures related to technological equipment, software licenses and, to a lesser degree, office equipment. During the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, the increase in cash used in investment activities was partially offset by proceeds from the sale and maturity of $12.7 million of investments as part of our financial strategy. 43 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities Three Month Period Ended March 31, Change from 2010 to 2011 2011 2010 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (*) Net Cash used in: Financing activities $ 0.0 $ (3.2 ) $ 3.2 -100.0 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. For the three-month period ended March 31, 2010, our primary use of cash for financing activities was a reduction in short term debt as we paid $3.2 million of notes outstanding which were issued in connection with the DeRemate acquisition. In the event that we decide to pursue strategic acquisitions in the future, we may fund them with available cash, third party debt financing, or by raising equity capital, as market conditions allow. Debt As of March 31, 2011, the Company recorded $3.5 million of dividends payable to its stockholders. In addition, as of March 31, 2011, our outstanding debt of $0.2 million is related to an Argentine car lease contract. See Contractual obligations for more detail. Cash Dividends In February 2011, our board of directors declared our first quarterly cash dividend in our history of $3.5 million on our outstanding shares of common stock. The dividend was paid on April 15, 2011 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, 2011. We currently expect to continue paying similar amount of cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, any future determination as to the declaration of dividends on our common stock will be made at the discretion of our board of directors. Capital expenditures Our capital expenditures increased by $1.6 million to $3.0 million for the three-month period ended March 31, 2011 as compared to $1.4 million for the same period in 2010, mainly due to investments made during the three-month period ended March 31, 2011. The Company increased the level of investment on hardware and software licenses necessary to improve and update the technology of our platform, cost of computer software developed internally and office equipment and new office space in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico. We anticipate continued investments in capital expenditures in the future as we strive to maintain our position in the Latin American e-commerce market. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, including the sale of credit card receivables and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, property and equipment expenditures and to pay or repay obligations going forward. Off-balance sheet arrangements At March 31, 2011, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 44 Table of Contents Contractual obligations We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated Payments. Changes in our business needs, cancellation provisions and other factors may result in actual Payments differing materially from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amount of Payments. Below is a summary of the most significant assumptions used in our determination of amounts presented in the table. Contractual obligations at March 31, 2011 are as follows: Payment due by period Less than 1 to 3 3 to 5 More than (in millions) Total 1 year years years 5 years Capital lease obligations (1) $ 0.3 $ 0.1 $ 0.2 $ $ Operating lease obligations (2) 4.4 1.3 2.2 0.8 0.1 Purchase obligations 5.3 4.6 0.7 Total $ 10.0 $ 6.0 $ 3.1 $ 0.8 $ 0.1 (1) On February 22, 2010, our Argentina subsidiary signed a Company car lease contract to buy 12 cars for certain employees of the Company. The total lease contract amounts to $0.4 million and matures in July 2013. (2) Includes leases of office space. We have leases for office space in certain countries in which we operate and leases for Company cars in Argentina. These are our only operating leases. Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (technological equipment and software licenses) and other goods and services that were entered into in the ordinary course of business. We have developed estimates to project payment obligations based upon historical trends, when available, and our anticipated future obligations. Given the significance of performance requirements within our advertising and other arrangements, actual Payments could differ significantly from these estimates.