Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Any statements made or implied in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including statements about our beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27 A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and should be evaluated as such. The words anticipate, believe, expect, intend, plan, estimate, target, project, should, may, could, will and similar words and expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements generally relate to information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, business strategies, financing plans, competitive position, industry environment, potential growth opportunities, future economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate the effects of future regulation and the effects of competition. Such forward-looking statements reflect, among other things, our current expectations, plans, projections and strategies, anticipated financial results, future events and financial trends affecting our business, all of which are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors (in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report) that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things: our expectations regarding the continued growth of online commerce and Internet usage in Latin America; our ability to expand our operations and adapt to rapidly changing technologies; our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase revenues; the impact of government and central bank regulations on our business; litigation and legal liability; systems interruptions or failures; our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; consumer trends; security breaches and illegal uses of our services; competition ; reliance on third-party service providers; enforcement of intellectual property rights; seasonal fluctuations; and political, social and economic conditions in Latin America. Many of these risks are beyond our ability to control or predict. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all such risk factors on our companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements . These statements are based on currently available information and our current assumptions, expectations and projections about future events. While we believe that our assumptions, expectations and projections are reasonable in view of the currently available information, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. They are subject to future events, risks and uncertaintiesmany of which are beyond our control-as well as potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections. Some of the material risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections are described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 23, 2018, as updated by those described in Item 1A Risk Factors in Part II of our Form10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2018, Exhibit 99.2 of our Form 8-K filed on August 20, 2018, and in other reports we file from time to time with the SEC. You should read that information in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 2 of Part I of this report, our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 1 of Part I of this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. We note such information for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. There also may be other factors that we cannot anticipate or that are not described in this report, generally because they are unknown to us or we do not perceive them to be a material risk that could cause results to differ materially from our expectations. 30 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update these forward-looking statements except as may be required by law. You are advised, however, to review any further disclosures we make on related subjects in our periodic filings with the SEC. The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations presents the following: a brief overview of our company; a discussion of our principal trends and results of operations for the nine and three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 ; a review of our financial presentation and accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies; a discussion of the principal factors that influence our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity; a discussion of our liquidity and capital resources and a discussion of our capital expenditures; a description of our non-GAAP financial measures; and a discussion of the market risks that we face. Other Information We routinely post important information for investors on our Investor Relations website, http://investor.mercadolibre.com. We use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure). Accordingly, investors should monitor our Investor Relations website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this report. Business Overview MercadoLibre, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries us, we, our or the Company) is one of the largest online commerce ecosystems in Latin America. Our platform is designed to provide users with a complete portfolio of services to facilitate commercial transactions. We are a market leader in e-commerce in each of Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, based on number of unique visitors and page views. We also operate online commerce platforms in the Dominican Republic, Honduras, Nicaragua, Salvador, Panama, Bolivia, Guatemala and Paraguay. Through our platform, we provide buyers and sellers with a robust environment that fosters the development of a large e-commerce community in Latin America, a region with a population of over 635 million people and one of the fastest-growing Internet penetration rates in the world. We believe that we offer technological and commercial solutions that address the distinctive cultural and geographic challenges of operating an online commerce platform in Latin America. We offer our users an ecosystem of six integrated e-commerce services: the MercadoLibre Marketplace, the MercadoLibre Classifieds Service, the MercadoPago payments solution, the MercadoEnvios shipping service, the MercadoLibre advertising program and the MercadoShops online webstores solution. The MercadoLibre Marketplace, which we sometimes refer to as our marketplace, is a fully-automated, topically-arranged and user-friendly online commerce service. This service permits both businesses and individuals to list merchandise and conduct sales and purchases online in either a fixed-price or auction-based format. To complement the MercadoLibre Marketplace, we developed MercadoPago, an integrated online payments solution. MercadoPago is designed to facilitate transactions both on and off our marketplace by providing a mechanism that allows our users to securely, easily and promptly send and receive payments online. Mercado Pago is currently available in: Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, Chile, Uruguay and Peru. MercadoPago allows merchants to facilitate checkout and payment processes on their websites and also enables users to simply transfer money to each other either through the website or using the MercadoPago App, available on iOS and Android. Additionally, we launched MercadoCredito, which is designed to extend loans to specific merchants and consumers. Our MercadoCredito solution allows us to deepen our engagement with our merchants, in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico, and consumers, in Argentina, by offering them additional services. Finally, we launched MercadoFondos, which allows users to invest funds deposited in their MercadoPago accounts. 31 Table of Contents To further enhance our suite of e-commerce services, we launched the MercadoEnvios shipping program in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Uruguay. Through MercadoEnvios, we offer a cost-efficient way to utilize our existing distribution chain to fulfill sales on our platform. Sellers opting into the program are able to offer a uniform and seamlessly integrated shipping experience to their buyers at competitive prices. As of September 30, 2018, we also offer free shipping to buyers in Brazil, Argentina, Mexico, Chile and Colombia. Through MercadoLibre Classifieds Service, our online classified listing service, our users can also list and purchase motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, real estate and services in all countries where we operate. Classified listings differ from Marketplace listings as they only charge optional placement fees and never final value fees. Our classifieds pages are also a major source of traffic to our website, benefitting both the Marketplace and non-marketplace businesses. Furthermore, we developed our MercadoLibre advertising program to enable businesses to promote their products and services on the Internet. Through our advertising program, MercadoLibres sellers and large advertisers are able to display product ads on our webpages and our associated vertical sites in the region. Additionally, through MercadoShops, our online store solution, users can set-up, manage and promote their own online store. These stores are hosted by MercadoLibre and offer integration with the other marketplace, payment and advertising services we offer. Users can pay monthly subscriptions for enhanced functionality and value added services on their store. MercadoLibre also develops and sells enterprise software solutions to e-commerce business clients in Brazil. Reporting Segments and Geographic Information Our segment reporting is based on geography, which is the current criterion we are using to evaluate our segment performance. Our geographic segments include Brazil, Argentina, Mexico and other countries (including Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, Bolivia, Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Guatemala, Paraguay, Uruguay and the United States of America (through real estate classifieds in the State of Florida only)). Venezuela was one of our geographic segments until we deconsolidated our Venezuelan operations, effective as of December 1, 2017 and first disclosed on our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Although we discuss long-term trends in our business, it is our policy not to provide earnings guidance in the traditional sense. We believe that uncertain conditions make the forecasting of near-term results difficult. Further, we seek to make decisions focused primarily on the long-term welfare of our company and believe focusing on short-term earnings does not best serve the interests of our stockholders. We believe that execution of key strategic initiatives as well as our expectations for long-term growth in our markets will best create stockholder value. We, therefore, encourage potential investors to consider this strategy before making an investment in our common stock. A long-term focus may make it more difficult for industry analysts and the market to evaluate the value of our company, which could reduce the value of our common stock or permit competitors with short-term tactics to grow stronger than us. The following table sets forth the percentage of our consolidated net revenues by segment for the nine and three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017: Nine-month Periods Ended Three-month Periods Ended September 30, September 30, (% of total consolidated net revenues) (*)(**) 2018 2017 2018 2017 Brazil 59.4 % 57.5 % 62.2 % 57.9 % Argentina 28.2 29.2 23.6 29.9 Mexico 6.3 3.9 8.2 3.8 Venezuela (***) 4.5 3.2 Other Countries 6.1 4.9 6.1 5.2 (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. (**) The amount incurred in shipping subsidies, which under ASC 606 are netted from revenues was $316.7 million and $102.6 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The amount incurred in shipping subsidies was $107.6 million and $65.7 million for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Please refer to Note 2 of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional detail. (***) Venezuelan revenues have been deconsolidated since December 1, 2017. Please refer to Note 2 of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional detail. 32 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the changes in our net revenues by segment for the nine and three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017: Nine-month Periods Ended Change from 2017 Three-month Periods Ended Change from 2017 September 30, to 2018 (*) (**) September 30, to 2018 (*) (**) 2018 2017 in Dollars in % 2018 2017 in Dollars in % (in millions, except percentages) (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenues: Brazil $ 600.8 $ 493.5 $ 107.3 21.7 % $ 220.8 $ 176.6 $ 44.3 25.1 % Argentina 285.8 250.7 35.1 14.0 83.7 91.3 (7.6) (8.3) Mexico 63.6 33.6 29.9 89.1 29.0 11.5 17.5 152.1 Venezuela (***) 38.3 (38.3) (100.0) 9.8 (9.8) (100.0) Other Countries 61.5 42.3 19.1 45.2 21.8 15.8 6.0 37.8 Total Net Revenues $ 1,011.6 $ 858.5 $ 153.2 17.8 % $ 355.3 $ 304.9 $ 50.4 16.5 % (*) Percentages have been calculated using whole-dollar amounts rather than rounded amounts that appear in the table. The table above may not total due to rounding. (**) The amount incurred in shipping subsidies, which under ASC 606 are netted from revenues was $316.7 million and $102.6 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The amount incurred in shipping subsidies was $107.6 million and $65.7 million for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Please refer to Note 2 of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional detail. (***) Venezuelan revenues have been deconsolidated since December 1, 2017 . Please refer to Note 2 of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional detail. Recent Developments 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2028 On August 24, 2018, we issued $800 million of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028, and on August 31, 2018 we issued an additional $80 million of notes pursuant to the partial exercise of the initial purchasers option to purchase such additional notes, resulting in an aggregate principal amount of $880 million of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 (collectively, the 2028 Notes). The 2028 Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of us, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on February 15 and August 15 of each year, at a rate of 2.00% per annum. The 2028 Notes will mature on August 15, 2028 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The 2028 Notes may be converted, under specific conditions, based on an initial conversion rate of 2.2553 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2028 Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $443.40 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the 2028 Notes. Convertible Senior Notes Due 2019s exchange On August 24, 2018, we used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2028 Notes to repurchase or exchange and retire $263.7 million principal amount of our outstanding 2019 Notes. The consideration paid included $348.1 million in cash and 1,044,298 shares of our common stock. Additionally, we entered into agreements with certain financial institutions who were counterparties to the existing 2019 Notes Capped Call Transactions entered into in June 2014 and September 2017 to terminate a portion of those transactions, in each case, in a notional amount corresponding to the amount of 2019 Notes repurchased or exchanged and retired. In connection with the termination of existing 2019 Capped Call Transactions and the related unwinding of the existing hedge position, we received from certain financial institutions the amount of $121.7 million. Please refer to Notes 2 and 9 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional detail on Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 and Convertible Senior Notes due 2019s exchange. Acquisition of a machine learning company in Argentina On September 6, 2018, we, through our subsidiaries Meli Participaciones S.L. and Marketplace Investment LLC, completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity interest of Machinalis S.R.L., which is a machine learning company organized under the laws of Argentina, for an amount of $5.9 million. Acquisition of software development companies in Argentina On October 26, 2018, we, through our subsidiaries Meli Participaciones S.L. and Marketplace Investment LLC, completed the acquisition of 100% of the equity interest of Kinexo S.A and Kaitzen S.A., which are software development companies located and organized under the laws of Argentina, for an amount of $4.0 million. 33 Table of Contents Approval from the Central Bank of Brazil to operate as authorized payment institution During November 2014, we submitted our application to become an authorized payment institution in Brazil through our Brazilian subsidiary MercadoPago.com Representaes Ltda. On November 1, 2018 our Brazilian subsidiary obtained the approval from the Central Bank of Brazil to operate as authorized payment institution. The mentioned approval confirmed our ability to continue carrying out the payment processing functions. Description of Line Items Net revenues Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers related to revenue recognition (ASC 606) issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in 2014. ASC 606 provides a unified model to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle is that a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration for which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. We adopted ASC 606 using the full retrospective transition method and recast the prior reporting period presented. Under the full retrospective method, we retrospectively applied ASC 606 to the nine and three-month period ended September 30, 2017. For the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we incurred $316.7 million and $102.6 million, respectively, of subsidized shipping costs that have been included as a reduction of revenues. For the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, we incurred $107.6 million and $65.7 million, respectively, of subsidized shipping costs that have been included as a reduction of revenues. The total impact resulting from the change in presentation of shipping subsidies was a decrease in Net revenues and Cost of net revenues of $102.6 million and $65.7 million in the Interim Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income for the nine and three-month periods ended September 30, 2017, respectively. We recognize revenues in each of our four geographical reporting segments. Within each of our segments, the services we provide generally fall into two distinct revenue streams, Enhanced Marketplace and Non-Marketplace. The following table summarizes our consolidated net revenues by revenue stream for the nine and three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017: Nine-month Periods Ended Three-month Periods Ended September 30, (*) September 30, (*) Consolidated net revenues by revenue stream 2018 2017 2018 2017 (in millions) (in millions) Enhanced Marketplace (**) $ 477.2 $ 539.1 $ 180.3 $ 181.1 Non-Marketplace (***) (****) 534.4 319.4 175.0 123.8 Total $ 1,011.6 $ 858.5 $ 355.3 $ 304.9 (*) The table above may not total due to rounding. (**) Includes final value fees and shipping fees. The amount incurred in shipping subsidies, which under ASC 606 are netted from revenues was $316.7 million and $102.6 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The amount incurred in shipping subsidies was $107.6 million and $65.7 million for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Please refer to Note 2 of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional detail. (***) Includes, among other things, ad sales, classified fees, payment fees and other ancillary services. (****) Includes $432.6 million and $232.4 million of Payment Fees for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Includes $143.9 million and $92.3 million of Payment Fees for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Revenues from Enhanced Marketplace transactions are mainly generated from final value fees and shipping fees net of the third-party carrier costs. For Enhanced Marketplace services, final value fees represent a percentage of the sale value that is charged to the seller once an item is successfully sold. O ur shipping revenues are generated when a buyer elects to receive an item through our shipping service net of the third-party carrier costs. Revenues for Non-Marketplace services are generated from: payments fees; classifieds fees; 34 Table of Contents ad sales up-front fees; and fees from other ancillary businesses. With respect to our MercadoPago service, we generate payment fees attributable to: commissions representing a percentage of the payment volume processed that are charged to sellers in connection with off Marketplace-platform transactions; commissions from additional fees we charge when a buyer elects to pay in installments through our MercadoPago platform, for transactions that occur either on or off our Marketplace platform; commissions from additional fees we charge when our sellers elect to withdraw cash; interest, cash advances and fees from customers and merchant and consumer credits granted under our MercadoCredito solution; and revenues from the sale of mobile points of sale products. Through our classifieds offerings in motor vehicles, vessels, aircraft, real estate and services, we generate revenues from up-front fees. These fees are charged to sellers who opt to give their listings greater exposure throughout our websites . Our Advertising revenues are generated by selling either display product and/or text link ads throughout our websites to interested advertisers. When more than one service is included in one single arrangement with the same customer, we recognize revenue according to multiple element arrangements accounting, distinguishing between each of the services provided and allocating revenues based on their respective estimated selling prices. We have a highly fragmented customer revenue base given the large numbers of sellers and buyers who use our platforms. For the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017, no single customer accounted for more than 5.0% of our net revenues. Our MercadoLibre Marketplace is available in 18 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, Uruguay, Venezuela, Bolivia, Honduras, Nicaragua, Salvador, Guatemala and Paraguay), and MercadoPago is available in 8 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Colombia, Mexico, Uruguay and Venezuela). Additionally, MercadoEnvios is available in 6 countries (Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, Chile and Uruguay). The functional currency for each countrys operations is the countrys local currency, except for Venezuela and Argentina where the functional currency was the U.S. dollar due to Argentina and Venezuelas status as highly inflationary economies. SeeCritical accounting policies and estimatesForeign Currency Translation included below and Note 2 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for highly inflationary economy details . Therefore, our net revenues are generated in multiple foreign currencies and then translated into U.S. dollars at the average monthly exchange rate. Venezuelan revenues have been deconsolidated since December 1, 2017. Please refer to Note 2 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for Venezuela deconsolidation details. Our subsidiaries in Brazil, Argentina and Colombia are subject to certain taxes on revenues which are classified as a cost of net revenues. T hese taxes represented 10.0 % of net revenues for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2018, as compared to 8.9% for the same period in 2017. For the three-month period ended September 30, 2018 these taxes represented 9.7% of net revenues, as compared to the 8.5% for the same period in 2017. Cost of net revenues Cost of net revenues primarily represents bank and credit card processing charges for transactions and fees paid with credit cards and other payment methods, fraud prevention fees, certain taxes on revenues, certain taxes on bank transactions, cost of mobile point of sale products sold, hosting and site operation fees, compensation for customer support personnel, ISP connectivity charges, depreciation and amortization, shipping operation costs and other operation costs. Product and technology development expenses Our product and technology development related expenses consist primarily of compensation for our engineering and web-development staff, depreciation and amortization costs related to product and technology development, telecommunications costs and payments to third-party suppliers who provide technology maintenance services to us. 35 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of costs of marketing our platforms through online and offline advertising and agreements with portals and search engines, charges related to our buyer protection programs, the salaries of employees involved in these activities, chargebacks related to our MercadoPago operations, bad debt charges, public relations costs, marketing activities for our users and depreciation and amortization costs. We carry out the majority of our marketing efforts on the Internet. We enter into agreements with portals, search engines, social networks , ad networks and other sites in order to attract Internet users to the MercadoLibre Marketplace and convert them into registered users and active traders on our platform. We also work intensively on attracting, developing and growing our seller community through our customer support efforts. We have dedicated professionals in most of our operations that work with sellers through trade show participation, seminars and meetings to provide them with important tools and skills to become effective sellers on our platform. General and administrative expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries for management and administrative staff, compensation for outside directors, long term retention plan compensation, expenses for legal, audit and other professional services, insurance expenses, office space rental expenses, travel and business expenses, as well as depreciation and amortization costs. Our general and administrative expenses include the costs of the following areas: general management, finance, administration, accounting, legal and human resources. Other income (expenses), net Other income (expenses) consists primarily of interest income derived from our investments and cash equivalents, interest expense related to financial liabilities and foreign currency gains or losses . Income tax We are subject to federal and state taxes in the United States, as well as foreign taxes in the multiple jurisdictions where we operate. Our tax obligations consist of current and deferred income taxes incurred in these jurisdictions. We account for income taxes following the liability method of accounting. A valuation allowance is recorded when, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Therefore, our income tax expense consists of taxes currently payable, if any (given that in certain jurisdictions we still have net operating loss carry-forwards), plus the change in our deferred tax assets and liabilities during each period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with our audit committee and our board of directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our interim condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes in our critical accounting policies, management estimates or accounting policies since the year ended December 31, 2017 and disclosed in the Form 10-K, see Item Critical Accounting Policies, other than those discussed in Note 2 of our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Translation All of our foreign consolidated operations use the local currency as their functional currency, except for Argentina due to Argentinas status as a highly inflationary economy. Accordingly, these operating foreign subsidiaries translate assets and liabilities from their local currencies to U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates while income and expense accounts are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period , unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during the period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of the transaction are used. The resulting translation adjustment is recorded as part of other comprehensive (loss) income, a component of equity. Gains and losses resulting from transactions denominated in non-functional currencies are recognized in earnings. Net foreign currency exchange losses or gains are included in the unaudited interim condensed consolidated statements of income under the caption Foreign currency (losses) gains. See also Highly inflationary status in Argentina in note 2 of our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of the current inflationary status of Argentina and the impacts of foreign currency translation on the Companys operations in Argentina. Venezuelan deconsolidation Effective December 1, 2017, we determined that deteriorating conditions in Venezuela had led us to no longer meet the accounting criteria for control over our Venezuelan subsidiaries. Venezuelas selective default determination, restrictive exchange controls and suspension of foreign exchange market in Venezuela, the lack of access to U.S. dollars through official currency exchange mechanisms together with the worsening in Venezuelas macroeconomic environment resulted in other-than-temporary lack of exchangeability between the Venezuela bolivar and the U.S. dollar, and restricted our ability to pay dividends and our ability to satisfy other obligations denominated in U.S. dollars. Therefore, in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, as of December 1, 2017, we deconsolidated the financial statements of our subsidiaries in Venezuela and began reporting the results under the cost method of accounting. Beginning December 1, 2017, we no longer include the results of the Venezuelan subsidiaries in our consolidated financial statements. Allowances for doubtful accounts, loan receivables and for chargebacks We are exposed to losses due to uncollectible accounts and credits to users. Allowances for these items represent our estimate of future losses based on our historical experience. The allowances for doubtful accounts, loan receivables and for chargebacks are recorded as charges to sales and marketing expenses. Historically, our actual losses have been consistent with our charges. However, future adverse changes to our historical experience for doubtful accounts, loan receivables and chargebacks could have a material impact on our future consolidated statements of income and cash flows . We believe that the accounting estimate related to allowances for doubtful accounts, loans receivables and for chargebacks is a critical accounting estimate because it requires management to make assumptions about future collections and credit analysis. Our managements assumptions about future collections require significant judgment . Legal contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss and provided for such losses through charges to our interim condensed consolidated statement of income. These estimates are based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances and historical information related to actions filed against us at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events . Convertible Senior Notes On June 30, 2014, we issued $330 million of 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019 (the 2019 Notes). The Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of the Company, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on January 1 and July 1 of each year, at a rate of 2.25% per annum. The 2019 Notes will mature on July 1, 2019 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The 2019 Notes may be converted, under specific conditions, based on an initial conversion rate of 7.9353 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2019 Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $126.02 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes On August 24, 2018, we issued $800 million of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028 and issued an additional $80 million of notes on August 31, 2018, pursuant to the partial exercise of the initial purchasers option to purchase such additional notes, for an aggregate principal amount of $880 million of 2.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2028. The 2028 Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of us, which pay interest in cash semi-annually, on February 15 and August 15 of each year, at a rate of 2.00% per annum. The 2028 Notes will mature on August 15, 2028 unless earlier repurchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The 2028 Notes may be converted, under specific conditions, based on an initial conversion rate of 2.2553 37 Table of Contents shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of the 2028 Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $443.40 per share of common stock), subject to adjustment as described in the indenture governing the 2028 Notes. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the 2028 Notes to repurchase or exchange and retire $263.7 million principal amount of our outstanding 2019 Notes. The consideration paid included $348.1 million in cash and 1,044,298 shares of our common stock. Additionally, we entered into agreements with certain financial institutions who were counterparties to the existing 2019 Notes Capped Call Transactions entered into in June 2014 and September 2017 to terminate a portion of those transactions, in each case, in a notional amount corresponding to the amount of 2019 Notes repurchased or exchanged and retired. In connection with the termination of existing 2019 Capped Call Transactions and the related unwinding of the existing hedge position, we received from certain financial institutions the amount of $121.7 million. Please refer to Notes 2 and 9 to our unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the 2019 Notes, the 2028 Notes and the related capped call transactions. Impairment of long-lived assets, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful life We review long-lived assets for impairments whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable . Furthermore, goodwill and certain indefinite life trademarks are reviewed for impairment at each year-end or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We believe that the accounting estimate related to impairment of long-lived assets and goodwill is critical since it is highly susceptible to change from period to period because: (i) it requires management to make assumptions about gross merchandise volume growth, total payment volume, total payment transactions, future interest rates, sales and costs; and (ii) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on the assets reported on our balance sheet as well as our net income would be material. Managements assumptions about future sales and future costs require significant judgment. For additional information, see Critical Accounting Policies section in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017. Income taxes We are required to recognize a provision for income taxes based upon taxable income and temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities for each of the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires a calculation of taxes payable under currently enacted tax laws in each jurisdiction and an analysis of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of our assets and liabilities, including various accruals, allowances, depreciation and amortization. The tax effect of these temporary differences and the estimated tax benefit from our tax net operating losses are reported as deferred tax assets and liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. We also assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be realized from future taxable income. To the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we establish a valuation allowance. As of September 30, 2018, we had a valuation allowance on certain foreign net operating losses based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we reflect the change with a corresponding increase or decrease in our Income tax expense line in our unaudited interim condensed consolidated statement of income. Stock-based compensation Our board of directors adopted long-term retention plans (LTRPs), under which certain eligible employees receive awards. See