Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to our historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." For a discussion of limitations in the measurement of certain of our user metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Certain revenue information in the section entitled "Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016Revenue Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue" is presented on a constant currency basis. This information is a non-GAAP financial measure. To calculate revenue on a constant currency basis, we translated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. This measure may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting its usefulness for comparison purposes. Moreover, presentation of revenue on a constant currency basis is provided for year-over-year comparison purposes, and investors should be cautioned that the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on our operating results. We believe this non-GAAP financial measure provides investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enable comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allows for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. Executive Overview of First Quarter Results Our key user metrics and financial results for the first quarter of 2017 are as follows: User growth: Daily active users (DAUs) were 1.28 billion on average for March 2017 , an increase of 18% year-over-year. Monthly active users (MAUs) were 1.94 billion as of March 31, 2017 , an increase of 17% year-over-year. Financial results: Revenue was $8.03 billion , up 49% year-over-year, and ad revenue was $7.86 billion , up 51% year-over-year. Total costs and expenses were $ 4.71 billion . Income from operations was $3.33 billion . Net income was $3.06 billion with diluted earnings per share of $1.04 . Capital expenditures were $ 1.27 billion . Effective tax rate was 10% . Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $32.31 billion as of March 31, 2017 . Headcount was 18,770 as of March 31, 2017 , an increase of 38% year-over-year. In the first quarter of 2017 , we continued to focus on our three main revenue growth priorities: (i) helping businesses expand their use of our mobile products, (ii) developing innovative ad products that help businesses get the most of their ad campaigns, and (iii) making our ads more relevant and effective through our targeting capabilities and outcome-based measurement. We continued to invest, based on our roadmap, in: (i) our most developed ecosystem, the Facebook app and platform as well as video, (ii) driving growth and building ecosystems around our products and features that already have significant user bases, such as Messenger, Instagram, and WhatsApp, and (iii) long-term technology initiatives that we believe will further our mission to connect the world, such as augmented reality, virtual reality and artificial intelligence. We intend to continue to invest based on this roadmap and we expect these investments and our increasingly global scale will drive significant overall year-over-year expense growth compared to 2016. In addition, we anticipate our expenses in 2017 will continue to grow as we execute on priorities such as (i) hiring top engineering talent, (ii) investing in research and development, content, and sales and marketing efforts, and (iii) expanding our data center capacity and office facilities to support our rapid growth. 20 Trends in Our User Metrics The numbers for our key metrics, our DAUs, MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU) do not include Instagram, WhatsApp, or Oculus users unless they would otherwise qualify as such users, respectively, based on their other activities on Facebook. In addition, other user engagement metrics do not include Instagram, WhatsApp, or Oculus unless otherwise specifically stated. Trends in the number of users affect our revenue and financial results by influencing the number of ads we are able to show, the value of our ads to marketers, the volume of Payments transactions, as well as our expenses and capital expenditures. Substantially all of our daily and monthly active users (as defined below) access Facebook on mobile devices. Daily Active Users (DAUs) . We define a daily active user as a registered Facebook user who logged in and visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, or used our Messenger application (and is also a registered Facebook user), on a given day. We view DAUs, and DAUs as a percentage of MAUs, as measures of user engagement. Note: For purposes of reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU by geographic region, Europe includes all users in Russia and Turkey and Rest of World includes all users in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. 21 Worldwide DAUs increased 18% to 1.28 billion on average during March 2017 from 1.09 billion during March 2016 . We experienced growth in DAUs across major markets, including India, Indonesia, and Brazil. Monthly Active Users (MAUs) . We define a monthly active user as a registered Facebook user who logged in and visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, or used our Messenger application (and is also a registered Facebook user), in the last 30 days as of the date of measurement. MAUs are a measure of the size of our global active user community. As of March 31, 2017 , we had 1.94 billion MAUs, an increase of 17% from March 31, 2016 . Users in India, Indonesia, and Brazil represented key sources of growth in the first quarter of 2017 , relative to the same period in 2016 . 22 Trends in Our Monetization by User Geography We calculate our revenue by user geography based on our estimate of the geography in which ad impressions are delivered, virtual and digital goods are purchased, or virtual reality platform devices are shipped. We define ARPU as our total revenue in a given geography during a given quarter, divided by the average of the number of MAUs in the geography at the beginning and end of the quarter. While ARPU includes all sources of revenue, the number of MAUs used in this calculation only includes users of Facebook and Messenger as described in the definition of MAU above. Revenue from users who are not also Facebook or Messenger MAUs was not material. The geography of our users affects our revenue and financial results because we currently monetize users in different geographies at different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU in regions such as United States & Canada and Europe are relatively higher primarily due to the size and maturity of those online and mobile advertising markets. For example, ARPU in the first quarter of 2017 in the United States & Canada region was more than eight times higher than in the Asia-Pacific region. Note: Our revenue by user geography in the charts above is geographically apportioned based on our estimation of the geographic location of our users when they perform a revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue by geography disclosure in our condensed consolidated financial statements where revenue is geographically apportioned based on the location of the marketer or developer. We discovered an error in the algorithm we used to attribute our revenue by user geography in late 2015. While this issue did not affect our overall worldwide revenue, it did affect our attribution of revenue to different geographic regions. The fourth quarter of 2015 revenue by user geography and ARPU amounts for all regions were adjusted to reflect this reclassification. 23 During the first quarter of 2017 , worldwide ARPU was $4.23 , an increase of 27% from the first quarter of 2016 . Over this period, ARPU increased by 37% in United States & Canada, 36% in Europe, 27% in Asia-Pacific, and 40% in Rest of World. ARPU in the first quarter of 2017 declined by 12% from the fourth quarter of 2016. We believe the sequential quarterly decline was driven by seasonal trends, which also affected ARPU trends from the fourth quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2016, during which period ARPU declined by 11%. In addition, user growth was more rapid in geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such as Asia-Pacific and Rest of World. We expect that user growth in the future will be primarily concentrated in those regions where ARPU is relatively lower, such that worldwide ARPU may continue to increase at a slower rate relative to ARPU in any geographic region, or potentially decrease even if ARPU increases in each geographic region. 24 Components of Results of Operations Revenue Advertising. We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. Our advertising revenue is generated by displaying ad products on Facebook, Instagram, and third-party affiliated websites or mobile applications. Marketers pay for ad products either directly or through their relationships with advertising agencies, based on the number of clicks made by people, the number of actions taken by people, or the number of impressions delivered. We recognize revenue from the delivery of click-based ads in the period in which a person clicks on the content, and action-based ads in the period in which a person takes the action the marketer contracted for. We recognize revenue from the display of impression-based ads in the contracted period in which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when an ad is displayed to people. The number of ads we show is subject to methodological changes as we continue to evolve our ads business and the structure of our ads products. We calculate price per ad as total ad revenue divided by the number of ads delivered, representing the effective price paid per impression by a marketer regardless of their desired objective such as impression, click, or action. For advertising revenue arrangements where we are not the primary obligor, we recognize revenue on a net basis. Payments and other fees. We enable Payments from people to purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers. People can transact and make payments on the Facebook website by using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards, or other methods. We receive a fee from developers when people make purchases in these applications using our Payments infrastructure. We recognize revenue net of amounts remitted to our developers. We have mandated the use of our Payments infrastructure for game applications on Facebook, and fees related to Payments are generated almost exclusively from games. Our other fees revenue, which has not been significant in recent periods, consists primarily of revenue from the delivery of virtual reality platform devices and related platform sales, and our ad serving and measurement products. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the delivery and distribution of our products. These include expenses related to the operation of our data centers, such as facility and server equipment depreciation, salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees on our operations teams, and energy and bandwidth costs. Cost of revenue also includes credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions, costs associated with data partner arrangements, amortization of intangible assets, and cost of virtual reality platform device inventory sold. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of share-based compensation, salaries, and benefits for employees on our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products as well as improving existing products. We expense all of our research and development costs as they are incurred. Marketing and sales. Our marketing and sales expenses consist of salaries, share-based compensation, and benefits for our employees engaged in sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include marketing and promotional expenditures, as well as amortization of intangible assets. General and administrative. The majority of our general and administrative expenses consist of salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for certain of our executives as well as our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include legal related costs and professional services. 25 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of income data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in millions) Revenue $ 8,032 $ 5,382 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 1,159 838 Research and development 1,834 1,343 Marketing and sales 1,057 826 General and administrative 655 365 Total costs and expenses 4,705 3,372 Income from operations 3,327 2,010 Interest and other income, net 81 56 Income before provision for income taxes 3,408 2,066 Provision for income taxes 344 328 Net income $ 3,064 $ 1,738 Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (in millions) Cost of revenue $ 34 $ 22 Research and development 670 586 Marketing and sales 96 82 General and administrative 67 56 Total share-based compensation expense $ 867 $ 746 The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of income data (as a percentage of revenue): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 14 16 Research and development 23 25 Marketing and sales 13 15 General and administrative 8 7 Total costs and expenses 59 63 Income from operations 41 37 Interest and other income, net 1 1 Income before provision for income taxes 42 38 Provision for income taxes 4 6 Net income 38 % 32 % Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses (as a percentage of revenue): 26 Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Cost of revenue % % Research and development 8 11 Marketing and sales 1 2 General and administrative 1 1 Total share-based compensation expense 11 % 14 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Advertising $ 7,857 $ 5,201 51 % Payments and other fees 175 181 (3 )% Total revenue $ 8,032 $ 5,382 49 % Revenue in the first quarter of 2017 increased $2.65 billion , or 49% , compared to the same period in 2016 . The increase was due to an increase in advertising revenue. The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was an increase in revenue from ads in News Feed. For the first quarter of 2017 , we estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented approximately 85% of total advertising revenue, as compared with approximately 82% in the same period in 2016 . Factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth in the first quarter of 2017 included (i) an increase in demand for our ad inventory, in part driven by an increase in the number of marketers actively advertising on Facebook, (ii) an increase in user growth and engagement, and (iii) an increase in the number and frequency of ads displayed in News Feed, as well as the quality, relevance, and performance of those ads. However, we anticipate increases in the number and frequency of ads displayed in News Feed will be a less significant driver of our revenue growth in the future. During the first quarter of 2017 , as compared to the same period in 2016 , the average price per ad increased by 14% and the number of ads delivered increased by 32%. The increase in average price per ad was driven by an increase in demand for our ad inventory while the increase in the ads delivered was driven by the same factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth. Payments and other fees revenue in the first quarter of 2017 decreased $6 million , or 3% , compared to the same period in 2016 . The decrease in Payments and other fees revenue was mostly due to decreased Payments revenue from games played on personal computers. We anticipate Payments and other fees revenue will continue to decline in 2017. Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue The general strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies from the first quarter of 2016 compared to the same period in 2017 had an unfavorable impact on our revenue. If we had translated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2017 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $8.05 billion and $7.88 billion , respectively. Using these constant rates, both revenue and advertising revenue would have been $22 million higher than actual revenue and advertising revenue for the first quarter of 2017 . 27 Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Cost of revenue $ 1,159 $ 838 38 % Percentage of revenue 14 % 16 % Cost of revenue in the first quarter of 2017 increased $321 million , or 38% , compared to the same period in 2016 . The majority of the increase was due to an increase in operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure and, to a lesser extent, higher costs associated with ads payment processing and various partnership agreements. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Research and development $ 1,834 $ 1,343 37 % Percentage of revenue 23 % 25 % Research and development expenses in the first quarter of 2017 increased $491 million , or 37% , compared to the same period in 2016 . The majority of the increase was due to an increase in payroll and benefits as a result of a 44% increase in employee headcount from March 31, 2016 to March 31, 2017 in engineering and other technical functions. Additionally, the impact from the change in fair value of our contingent consideration liability and our equipment and related expenses to support our research and development efforts increased in the first quarter of 2017 , compared to the same period in 2016. Marketing and sales Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Marketing and sales $ 1,057 $ 826 28 % Percentage of revenue 13 % 15 % Marketing and sales expenses in the first quarter of 2017 increased $231 million , or 28% , compared to the same period in 2016 . The majority of the increase was due to payroll and benefits expenses as a result of a 30% increase in employee headcount from March 31, 2016 to March 31, 2017 in our marketing and sales functions, and increases in our consulting and other professional service fees. Additionally, our marketing expenses increased $63 million in the first quarter of 2017 , compared to the same period in 2016 . General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) General and administrative $ 655 $ 365 79 % Percentage of revenue 8 % 7 % General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2017 increased $290 million , or 79% , compared to the same period in 2016 . The majority of the increase was due to an increase in legal related costs, and to a lesser extent, payroll and benefits expenses as a result of a 35% increase in employee headcount from March 31, 2016 to March 31, 2017 in general and administrative functions. 28 Interest and other income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Interest income, net $ 67 $ 27 148 % Other income, net 14 29 (52 )% Interest and other income, net $ 81 $ 56 45 % Interest and other income, net in the first quarter of 2017 increased $25 million compared to the same period in 2016 . Interest income, net increased mostly due to increases in interest income driven by higher invested cash balances and interest rates. In addition, the decrease in other income, net was mostly due to foreign exchange impact resulting from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency balances. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 344 $ 328 5 % Effective tax rate 10 % 16 % Our provision for income taxes in the first quarter of 2017 increased $16 million , or 5% , compared to the same period in 2016 , primarily due to an increase in income before provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2017 decreased compared to the same period in 2016, primarily due to increases in income before provision for income taxes being earned in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than that of the U.S. statutory rate where we plan to indefinitely reinvest a certain portion of those earnings, partially offset by a decrease in the tax rate benefit from share-based compensation. In the first quarter of 2017, excess tax benefits recognized from shared-based compensation decreased our provision for income taxes by $302 million and our effective tax rate by 9%, as compared to the U.S. statutory rate. For comparison, in the first quarter of 2016, excess tax benefits recognized from share-based compensation decreased our provision for income taxes by $226 million and our effective tax rate by 11%, as compared to the U.S. statutory rate. Effective Tax Rate Items . Our effective tax rate in the future will depend upon the proportion of our income before provision for income taxes earned in the United States and in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than the U.S. statutory rate where we plan to indefinitely reinvest a certain portion of those earnings, as well as a number of other factors, including tax benefits from share-based compensation, tax effects of integrating intellectual property from acquisitions, settlement of tax contingency items, and the impact of new legislation. The portion of our income before provision for income taxes earned in jurisdictions with a tax rate lower than the U.S. statutory rate will depend upon the proportion of revenue and costs associated with the respective jurisdictions. Our ability to indefinitely reinvest those future earnings will depend upon the amount, location, and cost of deploying those earnings to where they are needed by the business. Integrating intellectual property from acquisitions into our business generally involves intercompany transactions that have the impact of increasing our provision for income taxes. Consequently, our provision for income taxes and our effective tax rate may initially increase following an acquisition and integration. The magnitude of this impact will depend upon the specific type, size, and taxing jurisdictions of the intellectual property as well as the relative contributions to income in subsequent periods. The tax effects of the accounting for share-based compensation will increase or decrease our effective tax rate based upon the difference between our share-based compensation expense and the benefits taken on our tax return which depends upon the share price at the time of employee award vesting. We recognize excess tax benefits on a discrete basis and we anticipate that our effective tax rate will vary from quarter to quarter depending on our share price in each period. If our share price remains constant to the May 1, 2017 price, we anticipate that our effective tax rate will increase in the remaining quarters throughout the year and our full year rate will be higher than the rate in the first quarter. 29 Unrecognized Tax Benefits. As of March 31, 2017, our net unrecognized tax benefits, which were accrued as other liabilities, were $2.52 billion, and were predominantly accrued for uncertainties related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries, which includes licensing of intellectual property, providing services, and other transactions, as well as for uncertainties with our research tax credits. The ultimate settlement of the liabilities will depend upon resolution of tax audits, litigation, or events that would otherwise change the assessment of such items. Based upon the status of litigation described below and the current status of tax audits in various jurisdictions, we do not anticipate a significant impact to such amounts within the next 12 months. In July 2016, we received a Statutory Notice of Deficiency (Notice) from the IRS related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries in conjunction with the examination of the 2010 tax year. While the Notice applies only to the 2010 tax year, the IRS states that it will also apply its position for tax years subsequent to 2010, which, if the IRS prevails in its position, could result in an additional federal tax liability of an estimated aggregated amount of approximately $3.0 billion to $5.0 billion in excess of the amounts in our originally filed U.S. return, plus interest and any penalties asserted. We do not agree with the position of the IRS and have filed a petition in the United States Tax Court challenging the Notice. We have previously accrued an estimated unrecognized tax benefit consistent with the guidance in ASC 740 that is lower than the potential additional federal tax liability of $3.0 billion to $5.0 billion in excess of the amounts in our originally filed U.S. return, plus interest and penalties. If the IRS prevails in the assessment of additional tax due based on its position, the assessed tax, interest, and penalties, if any, could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. As of March 31, 2017, we have not resolved this matter and proceedings continue in the United States Tax Court. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations. We expect to continue to accrue unrecognized tax benefits for certain recurring tax positions and anticipate that the amount for future quarters accrued will be similar to the first quarter of 2017. Absent any unanticipated event, we do not expect our unrecognized tax benefits will have a significant impact on our effective tax rate in 2017. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist mostly of cash on deposit with banks, investments in money market funds, and investments in U.S. government agency securities, U.S. government securities, and corporate debt securities. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $32.31 billion as of March 31, 2017 , an increase of $2.86 billion from December 31, 2016 , mostly due to $5.06 billion of cash generated from operations, partially offset by $1.27 billion for purchases of property and equipment, $771 million of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and $228 million for repurchases of our Class A common stock. Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds) was $664 million for the first quarter of 2017 . As of March 31, 2017 , our federal net operating loss carryforward was $3.39 billion, and we anticipate that none of this amount will be utilized to offset our federal taxable income in 2017. As of March 31, 2017 , we had $94 million of federal tax credits, of which none will be available to offset our federal tax liabilities in 2017. In May 2016, we entered into a five-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility that allows us to borrow up to $2.0 billion . Any amounts outstanding under this facility will be due and payable on May 20, 2021. As of March 31, 2017 , no amounts had been drawn down and we were in compliance with the covenants under this credit facility. In November 2016, our board of directors authorized a $6.0 billion share repurchase program of our Class A common stock commencing in 2017 and does not have an expiration date. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and other investment opportunities, through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act). During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , we repurchased and subsequently retired approximately 2 million shares of our Class A common stock for an aggregate amount of approximately $228 million . In January 2017, we began funding withholding taxes due on employee equity awards by net share settlement, rather than our previous approach of requiring employees to sell shares of our common stock to cover taxes upon vesting of such awards. In the first quarter of 2017, we paid $771 million of taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards. As of March 31, 2017 , $7.48 billion of the $32.31 billion in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. We have provided residual taxes for the portion of earnings in jurisdictions where we do not intend to indefinitely reinvest such earnings of the local subsidiary. We currently anticipate that our available funds, credit facility, and cash flow from operations, will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the first quarter of 2017 mostly consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, such as share-based compensation expense of $867 million and total depreciation and amortization of $671 million . The increase in cash flow from operating activities during the first quarter of 2017 , compared to the same period in 2016 , was mostly due to an increase in net income, as adjusted for depreciation and amortization and share-based compensation expense. Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $5.89 billion for the first quarter of 2017 , mostly due to $4.63 billion for net purchases of marketable securities, and $1.27 billion for capital expenditures as we continued to invest in data centers, servers, office buildings, and network infrastructure. The increase in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2017 , compared to the same period in 2016 , was mostly due to net purchases of marketable securities. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2017 of approximately $7.0 billion to $7.5 billion . Cash Used in Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities during the first quarter of 2017 mostly consisted of $771 million of taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and $228 million for repurchases of our Class A common stock. The increase in cash used in financing activities during the first quarter of 2017 , compared to the same period in 2016 , was mostly due to taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards and repurchases of our Class A common stock that commenced in 2017, partially offset by the reduction in payments on capital lease and other financing obligations. 31 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2017 . Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our commitments under contractual obligations, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 . Contingencies We are involved in claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other legal proceedings. We record a provision for a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and the estimated amount. Such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. See Note 8 Commitments and Contingencies and Note 10 Income Taxes in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1, and "Legal Proceedings" contained in Part II, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09), which amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date , which delays the effective date of ASU 2014-09 by one year. The FASB also agreed to allow entities to choose to adopt the standard as of the original effective date. In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) (ASU 2016-08) which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations. The guidance includes indicators to assist an entity in determining whether it controls a specified good or service before it is transferred to the customers. The new standard further requires new disclosures about contracts with customers, including the significant judgments the registrant has made when applying the guidance. The new revenue recognition standard will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2018, with the option to adopt it in the first quarter of 2017. We will be adopting the new standard effective January 1, 2018. The new standard also permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the modified retrospective method). We currently anticipate adopting the standard using the modified retrospective method. While we are still in the process of completing our analysis on the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements, related disclosures, and our internal controls over financial reporting, we do not expect the impact to be material. In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business (ASU 2017-01), which revises the definition of a business and provides new guidance in evaluating when a set of transferred assets and activities is a business. This guidance will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2018 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In January 2017, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment (ASU 2017-04), which eliminates step two from the goodwill impairment test. Under ASU 2017-04, an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value up to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This guidance will be effective for us in the first quarter of 2020 on a prospective basis, and early adoption is permitted. We do not expect the standard to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing 32 basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition for Payments and other fees, income taxes, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and business combinations and valuation of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 . 33