Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition to historical condensed consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors." For a discussion of limitations in the measurement of certain of our user metrics, see the section entitled "Limitations of Key Metrics and Other Data" in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Certain revenue information in the section entitled " Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Revenue Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue" is presented on a constant currency basis. This information is a non-GAAP financial measure. To calculate revenue on a constant currency basis, we translated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. This measure may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting its usefulness for comparison purposes. Moreover, presentation of revenue on a constant currency basis is provided for year-over-year comparison purposes, and investors should be cautioned that the effect of changing foreign currency exchange rates has an actual effect on our operating results. We believe this non-GAAP financial measure provides investors with useful supplemental information about the financial performance of our business, enable comparison of financial results between periods where certain items may vary independent of business performance, and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in operating our business. Overview Our mission is to give people the power to share and make the world more open and connected. Our business focuses on creating value for people, marketers, and developers: People. We enable people to connect and share through mobile devices and personal computers, to discover what is going on in the world around them, and to share and express what matters to them to audiences ranging from their closest friends to the public at large. Marketers. We enable marketers to engage with our monthly active users (MAUs) on Facebook or subsets of MAUs based on a variety of factors including age, gender, location, and interests. Developers. We enable developers to use Facebook's developer services to build, grow and monetize their mobile and web applications more rapidly and successfully. We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising and from fees associated with our Payments infrastructure that enables people who use Facebook to purchase virtual and digital goods from developers. In the first quarter of 2015 , we recorded revenue of $3.54 billion , income from operations of $933 million , and net income of $512 million . 20 Trends in Our User Metrics The numbers for our key metrics, our daily active users (DAUs), mobile DAUs, MAUs, mobile MAUs, and average revenue per user (ARPU), and certain other metrics such as mobile-only DAUs and mobile-only MAUs, do not include Instagram or WhatsApp users unless they would otherwise qualify as such users, respectively, based on their other activities on Facebook. In addition, other user engagement metrics do not include Instagram or WhatsApp unless otherwise specifically stated. Trends in the number of users affect our revenue and financial results by influencing the number of ads we are able to show, the value of our ads to marketers, the volume of Payments transactions, as well as our expenses and capital expenditures. Daily Active Users (DAUs). We define a daily active user as a registered Facebook user who logged in and visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, used our Messenger app, or took an action to share content or activity with his or her Facebook friends or connections via a third-party website or application that is integrated with Facebook, on a given day. We view DAUs, and DAUs as a percentage of MAUs, as measures of user engagement. Note: For purposes of reporting DAUs, MAUs, and ARPU by geographic region, Europe includes all users in Russia and Turkey and Rest of World includes all users in Africa, Latin America, and the Middle East. 21 Worldwide DAUs increased 17% to 936 million on average during March 2015 from 802 million during March 2014 . We experienced growth in DAUs across major markets including India, the United States, and Brazil. Overall growth in DAUs was driven by increased mobile usage of Facebook, and the number of DAUs accessing Facebook on personal computers decreased in March 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 . We believe that use of Facebook through personal computers will continue to decline in all regions. Mobile DAUs . We define a mobile DAU as a user who accessed Facebook via a mobile application or via mobile versions of our website such as m.facebook.com, whether on a mobile phone or tablet, or used our Messenger app on a given day. Worldwide mobile DAUs increased 31% to 798 million on average during March 2015 from 609 million during March 2014 . In all regions, an increasing number of our DAUs accessed Facebook through mobile devices on average during March 2015 as compared to the same period during 2014 , with users in Brazil, India, and the United States representing key sources of mobile DAU growth on average during March 2015 . On average during March 2015 , there were 636 million DAUs who accessed Facebook solely through mobile applications or our mobile website, increasing 45% from 439 million mobile-only DAUs during the same period in 2014 . The remaining mobile DAUs accessed Facebook from both mobile devices and personal computers. We anticipate that growth in mobile users will continue to be the driver of our user growth for the foreseeable future. 22 Monthly Active Users (MAUs). We define a monthly active user as a registered Facebook user who logged in and visited Facebook through our website or a mobile device, used our Messenger app, or took an action to share content or activity with his or her Facebook friends or connections via a third-party website or application that is integrated with Facebook, in the last 30 days as of the date of measurement. MAUs are a measure of the size of our global active user community. As of March 31, 2015 , we had 1.44 billion MAUs, an increase of 13% from March 31, 2014 . Users in India, Brazil, and Thailand represented key sources of growth in the first quarter of 2015 relative to the same period in 2014 . Overall growth in MAUs was driven by increased mobile usage of Facebook, and the number of MAUs accessing Facebook on personal computers decreased in March 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 . We believe that use of Facebook through personal computers will continue to decline in all regions. 23 Mobile MAUs . We define a mobile MAU as a user who accessed Facebook via a mobile application or via mobile versions of our website such as m.facebook.com, whether on a mobile phone or tablet, or used our Messenger app during the period of measurement. Worldwide mobile MAUs increased 24% to 1.25 billion as of March 31, 2015 from 1.01 billion as of March 31, 2014 . In all regions, an increasing number of our MAUs accessed Facebook through mobile devices in the first quarter of 2015 as compared to the same period in 2014 , with users in India, Brazil, and the United States representing key sources of mobile MAU growth in the first quarter of 2015 . There were 581 million mobile MAUs who accessed Facebook solely through mobile applications or our mobile website as of March 31, 2015 , increasing 70% from 341 million , compared to the same period in 2014 . The remaining 667 million mobile MAUs accessed Facebook from both mobile devices and personal computers during March 2015 . We anticipate that growth in mobile users will continue to be the driver of our user growth for the foreseeable future. 24 Trends in Our Monetization by User Geography We calculate our revenue by user geography based on our estimate of the geography in which ad impressions are delivered or virtual and digital goods are purchased. We define ARPU as our total revenue in a given geography during a given quarter, divided by the average of the number of MAUs in the geography at the beginning and end of the quarter. The geography of our users affects our revenue and financial results because we currently monetize users in different geographies at different average rates. Our revenue and ARPU in regions such as United States & Canada and Europe are relatively higher due to the size and maturity of those advertising markets as well as our greater sales presence and the number of payment methods that we make available to marketers and users. For example, ARPU for an average user in the first quarter of 2015 in United States & Canada was more than seven times higher than for an average user in Asia-Pacific. Note: Our revenue by user geography in the charts above is geographically apportioned based on our estimation of the geographic location of our users when they perform a revenue-generating activity. This allocation differs from our revenue by geography disclosure in our condensed consolidated financial statements where revenue is geographically apportioned based on the location of the marketer or developer. 25 During the first quarter of 2015 , worldwide ARPU was $2.50 , an increase of 25% from the first quarter of 2014 . Over this period, ARPU increased by approximately 42% in United States & Canada, 27% in Asia-Pacific, 23% in Europe, and 14% in Rest of World . ARPU in the first quarter of 2015 declined 11% from the fourth quarter of 2014. We believe the sequential quarterly decline was driven by seasonal trends, which also affected ARPU trends from the fourth quarter of 2013 to the first quarter of 2014, during which period ARPU declined by 7%. User growth was more rapid in geographies with relatively lower ARPU, such as Asia-Pacific and Rest of World. We expect that user growth in the future will be primarily concentrated in those regions where ARPU is relatively lower, such as Asia-Pacific and Rest of World, such that worldwide ARPU may continue to increase at a slower rate relative to ARPU in any geographic region, or potentially decrease even if ARPU increases in each geographic region. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising and from fees associated with our Payments infrastructure that enables people to purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers. Advertising. Our advertising revenue is generated by displaying ad products on Facebook properties, including our mobile applications, and third-party affiliated websites or mobile applications. Marketers pay for ad products either directly or through their relationships with advertising agencies, based on the number of clicks made by people, the number of actions taken by people, or the number of impressions delivered. We recognize revenue from the delivery of click-based ads in the period in which a person clicks on the content, and action-based ads in the period in which a person takes the action the marketer contracted for. We recognize revenue from the display of impression-based ads in the contracted period in which the impressions are delivered. Impressions are considered delivered when an ad is displayed to people. The number of ads we show is subject to methodological changes as we continue to evolve our ads business and the structure of our ads products. We calculate price per ad as total ad revenue divided by the number of ads delivered, representing the effective price paid per impression by a marketer regardless of their desired objective such as impression, click, or action. Payments and other fees. We enable Payments from people to purchase virtual and digital goods from our developers. People can transact and make payments on the Facebook website by using debit and credit cards, PayPal, mobile phone payments, gift cards, or other methods. We receive a fee from developers when people make purchases in these applications using our Payments infrastructure. We recognize revenue net of amounts remitted to our developers. We have mandated the use of our Payments infrastructure for game applications on Facebook, and fees related to Payments are generated almost exclusively from games. Our other fees revenue, which has not been significant in recent periods, consists primarily of revenue from our ad serving and measurement products and the delivery of virtual reality platform devices. Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses Cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the delivery and distribution of our products. These include expenses related to the operation of our data centers such as facility and server equipment depreciation, facility and server equipment rent expense, energy and bandwidth costs, support and maintenance costs, and salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for employees on our operations teams. Cost of revenue also includes credit card and other transaction fees related to processing customer transactions, amortization of intangible assets, and cost of virtual reality platform device inventory sold. Research and development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of share-based compensation, salaries, and benefits for employees on our engineering and technical teams who are responsible for building new products as well as improving existing products. We expense all of our research and development costs as they are incurred. Marketing and sales. Our marketing and sales expenses consist of salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for our employees engaged in sales, sales support, marketing, business development, and customer service functions. Our marketing and sales expenses also include people-, marketer-, and developer-facing marketing and promotional expenditures, as well as amortization of intangible assets. General and administrative. Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation for our executives as well as our legal, finance, human resources, corporate communications and policy, and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include professional and legal services. General and administrative expenses also include depreciation of property and equipment and amortization of intangible assets we have acquired. 26 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of income data: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) Revenue $ 3,543 $ 2,502 Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 654 462 Research and development 1,062 455 Marketing and sales 620 323 General and administrative 274 187 Total costs and expenses 2,610 1,427 Income from operations 933 1,075 Interest and other income/(expense), net (1 ) Income before provision for income taxes 932 1,075 Provision for income taxes 420 433 Net income $ 512 $ 642 Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in millions) Cost of revenue $ 17 $ 12 Research and development 566 181 Marketing and sales 72 43 General and administrative 48 38 Total share-based compensation expense $ 703 $ 274 27 The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated statements of income data (as a percentage of revenue): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 18 18 Research and development 30 18 Marketing and sales 17 13 General and administrative 8 7 Total costs and expenses 74 57 Income from operations 26 43 Interest and other income/(expense), net Income before provision for income taxes 26 43 Provision for income taxes 12 17 Net income 14 % 26 % Share-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses (as a percentage of revenue): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Cost of revenue % % Research and development 16 7 Marketing and sales 2 2 General and administrative 1 2 Total share-based compensation expense 20 % 11 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Advertising $ 3,317 $ 2,265 46 % Payments and other fees 226 237 (5 )% Total revenue $ 3,543 $ 2,502 42 % Revenue in the first quarter of 2015 increased $1.04 billion , or 42% , compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in advertising revenue. The most important factor driving advertising revenue growth was an increase in revenue from ads in News Feed on mobile devices. News Feed ads are displayed more prominently, have significantly higher levels of engagement, and a higher price per ad relative to our other ad placements. For the first quarter of 2015 , we estimate that mobile advertising revenue represented 73% of total advertising revenue, as compared with 59% in the first quarter of 2014 . Other factors that influenced our advertising revenue growth in the first quarter of 2015 included (i) an increase in the number of marketers actively advertising on Facebook, which we believe increased demand for our ad inventory, (ii) certain product changes to increase the value and performance of our ads, and (iii) an increase in user growth and engagement. During the first quarter of 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 , the average price per ad increased by 285% and the number of ads delivered decreased by 62%. The increase in average price per ad was driven by a product change related to certain non-News Feed ads during the third quarter of 2014, which decreased the number of ads displayed but increased the prominence of each ad. Average price per ad was also driven by a mix shift towards a greater percentage of our ads being shown 28 in News Feed. The reduction in ads delivered was driven by factors including the product change described above as well as the shift in usage towards mobile devices where people are shown fewer ads as compared to personal computers. Payments and other fees revenue in the first quarter of 2015 decreased $11 million , or 5% , compared to the same period in 2014 . Payments and other fees revenue is currently based predominantly on Payments revenue from games played on personal computers. We expect Facebook usage on personal computers will continue to decline in the future, which we expect to result in a decline of our Payments revenue. Foreign Exchange Impact on Revenue The general strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies (primarily the Euro) from the first quarter of 2014 to the same period in 2015 had an unfavorable impact on our revenue. If we had translated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015 using the prior year's monthly exchange rates for our settlement currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our total revenue and advertising revenue would have been $3.73 billion and $3.51 billion , respectively, both of which are $188 million higher than actual total revenue and advertising revenue for the first quarter of 2015 . Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Cost of revenue $ 654 $ 462 42 % Percentage of revenue 18 % 18 % Cost of revenue in the first quarter of 2015 increased $192 million , or 42% , compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was primarily due to a $122 million increase in operational expenses related to our data centers and technical infrastructure, and to a lesser extent, increased amortization of our intangible assets. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Research and development $ 1,062 $ 455 133 % Percentage of revenue 30 % 18 % Research and development expenses in the first quarter of 2015 increased $607 million , or 133% , compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was primarily due to a $385 million increase in share-based compensation expense, compared to the first quarter of 2014. Other payroll and benefits expenses also increased as a result of a 55% growth in employee headcount from March 31, 2014 to March 31, 2015 in engineering and other technical functions. Additionally, we also recognized a $12 million increase in the fair value of our contingent consideration liability in research and development expense primarily due to an increase in the fair value of our common stock. Marketing and sales Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Marketing and sales $ 620 $ 323 92% Percentage of revenue 17 % 13 % Marketing and sales expenses in the first quarter of 2015 increased $297 million , or 92% , compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $101 million in amortization of our intangible assets and an increase of $93 million in our people-, marketer-, and developer-facing marketing expenses in the first quarter of 2015 , compared to the same period in 2014 . Payroll and benefits expenses also increased as a result of a 40% increase in employee headcount from March 31, 29 2014 to March 31, 2015 to support global sales, business development, and customer service. Additionally, share-based compensation expenses increased $29 million in the first quarter of 2015 , compared to the same period in 2014 . General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) General and administrative $ 274 $ 187 47 % Percentage of revenue 8 % 7 % General and administrative expenses in the first quarter of 2015 increased $87 million , or 47% , compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll and benefits expenses as a result of a 63% increase in employee headcount from March 31, 2014 to March 31, 2015 , and to a lesser extent, higher legal fees. Additionally, share-based compensation expenses increased $10 million in the first quarter of 2015 , compared to the same period in 2014. Interest and other income/(expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Interest income/(expense), net $ 2 $ 100 % Other income/(expense), net (3 ) (100 )% Interest and other income/(expense), net $ (1 ) $ (100 )% Interest and other income/(expense), net was not material in the first quarter of 2015 and 2014. Other income/(expense), net decreased primarily due to $5 million in foreign exchange losses resulting from the periodic re-measurement of our foreign currency balances recognized in the first quarter of 2015 . The decrease in other income/(expense), net was partially offset by an increase in interest income driven by larger invested cash balances. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % change (in millions, except for percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 420 $ 433 (3 )% Effective tax rate 45 % 40 % Our provision for income taxes in the first quarter of 2015 decreased $13 million , compared to the same period in 2014 , primarily due to a decrease in income before provision for income taxes. Our effective tax rate increased in the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 , primarily due to an increase in non-deductible share-based compensation related to acquisitions. Our effective tax rate has exceeded the U.S. statutory rate primarily because of the effect of non-deductible share-based compensation and the impact of acquiring intellectual property and integrating it into our business. Our effective tax rate in the future will depend on the portion of our profits earned within and outside the United States, which will also be affected by our methodologies for valuing our intellectual property and intercompany transactions. Our future effective tax rate will also be affected by the timing, size, and integration of any acquisitions we make. 30 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are our cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash generated from operations. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of cash on deposit with banks, investments in money market funds, and investments in U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, and corporate debt securities. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities were $12.41 billion as of March 31, 2015 , an increase of $1.21 billion from December 31, 2014 , primarily due to $1.70 billion of cash generated from operations and $ 423 million in excess tax benefits from share-based award activity, partially offset by $502 million for purchases of property and equipment and $257 million for acquisitions of businesses and other assets. In August 2013, we entered into a five -year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (2013 Revolving Credit Facility) that allows us to borrow up to $6.5 billion to fund working capital and general corporate purposes with interest payable on the borrowed amounts set at LIBOR plus 1.0% , as well as an annual commitment fee of 0.10% on the daily undrawn balance of the facility. We paid origination fees at closing of the 2013 Revolving Credit Facility, which fees are being amortized over the term of the facility. Any amounts outstanding under this facility will be due and payable on August 15, 2018. As of March 31, 2015 , no amounts had been drawn down and we were in compliance with the covenants under this credit facility. As of March 31, 2015 , $1.51 billion of the $12.41 billion in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Substantially all of these funds are in jurisdictions for which we are indefinitely reinvesting the earnings of the local subsidiary. These subsidiaries have historically incurred losses; as such, repatriating the funds will likely incur no residual tax liability. We have provided for residual taxes in jurisdictions where we do not intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of the local subsidiary, however the amount of taxes provided has been insignificant. We currently anticipate that our available funds, credit facility, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our operational cash needs for the foreseeable future. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities during the first quarter of 2015 primarily consisted of net income, adjusted for certain non-cash items, including share-based compensation expense of $694 million and total depreciation and amortization of $457 million . The increase in cash flow from operating activities during the first quarter of 2015 compared to the same period in 2014 was mostly due to an increase in net income, as adjusted for certain non-cash items described above. Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash flow from investing activities during the first quarter of 2015 primarily consisted of purchases, sales, and maturities of marketable securities, purchases of property and equipment, and acquisitions of businesses and purchases of intangible assets. The increase in cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of 2015 , compared to the same period in 2014 was primarily due to $ 600 million increase in net purchases of marketable securities, and to a lesser extent, an increase in acquisition of businesses and other assets. In addition, there was an increase in capital expenditures related to the purchase of servers, network infrastructure, and the construction of data centers and office buildings. We anticipate making capital expenditures in 2015 of approximately $2.7 billion to $3.2 billion. Cash Provided by Financing Activities Cash flow from financing activities during the first quarter of 2015 primarily consisted of excess tax benefits from share-based award activity and principal payments on capital lease obligations. The increase in cash provided by financing activities was mostly due to increased excess tax benefit from stock award activities and lower principal payments related to our capital lease transactions. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2015 . Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our commitments under contractual obligations, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 . 31 Contingencies We are involved in claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other legal proceedings. We record a provision for a liability when we believe that it is both probable that a liability has been incurred, and that the amount can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required to determine both probability and the estimated amount. Such legal proceedings are inherently unpredictable and subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to be incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows. See Note 9 in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 and "Legal Proceedings" contained in Part II, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information regarding contingencies. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. These estimates form the basis for judgments we make about the carrying values of our assets and liabilities, which are not readily apparent from other sources. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition for Payments and other fees, income taxes, share-based compensation, loss contingencies, and business combinations and valuation of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 . 32