Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2021, and our financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes. As the world continues to respond to COVID-19, we are working to do our part by ensuring the safety of our employees, striving to protect the health and well-being of the communities in which we operate, and providing technology and resources to our customers to help them do their best work while remote. Highlights from the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 compared with the third quarter of fiscal year 2021 included: Microsoft Cloud (formerly commercial cloud) revenue increased 32% to $23.4 billion. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 12% driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 17%. Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 11% and Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers grew to 58.4 million. LinkedIn revenue increased 34%. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 22% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 35%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 29% driven by Azure and other cloud services growth of 46%. Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (Windows OEM) revenue increased 11%. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14%. Xbox content and services revenue increased 4%. 33 PART I Item 2 Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 23%. Surface revenue increased 13%. On March 4, 2022, we completed our acquisition of Nuance Communications, Inc. (Nuance) for a total purchase price of $18.8 billion, consisting primarily of cash. Nuance is a cloud and artificial intelligence (AI) software provider with healthcare and enterprise AI experience, and the acquisition will build on our industry-specific cloud offerings. The financial results of Nuance have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition. Nuance is reported as part of our Intelligent Cloud segment. Refer to Note 7 Business Combinations of the Notes to the Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers, some of which contain certain components for which there are very few qualified suppliers. For these components, we have limited near-term flexibility to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or is unable to meet our requirements. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could lead to a similar disruption in our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies reduced reported revenue and expenses from our international operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022, and did not have a material impact on reported revenue or expenses from our international operations for the nine months ended March 31, 2022. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business operations and financial results, although some of the effects have lessened over time. Our commercial and consumer businesses have benefited from demand for cloud and productivity tools, and we have experienced savings in operating expenses related to COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact our business operations and financial operating results, and there is uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. 34 PART I Item 2 Seasonality Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the second and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Second quarter revenue is driven by corporate year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers, and fourth quarter revenue is driven by the volume of multi-year on-premises contracts executed during the period. Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 17 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). Metrics We use metrics in assessing the performance of our business and to make informed decisions regarding the allocation of resources. We disclose metrics to enable investors to evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution of our products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based on how customers use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). Financial metrics are calculated based on GAAP results and growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last fiscal year. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, we made updates to the presentation and method of calculation for certain metrics, most notably changes to incorporate all current and anticipated revenue streams within our Office Consumer and Server products and cloud services metrics and changes to align with how we manage our Windows OEM and Search and news advertising businesses. None of these changes had a material impact on previously reported amounts in our MD&A. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2022, we completed our acquisition of Nuance. Nuance is included in all commercial metrics and our Server products and cloud services revenue growth metric. Azure and other cloud services revenue includes Nuance cloud services, and Server products revenue includes Nuance on-premises offerings. Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise Services, and Dynamics. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the overall health of our commercial business and include leading indicators of future performance. Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods Microsoft Cloud revenue Revenue from our commercial cloud business, which includes Azure and other cloud services , Office 365 Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our commercial cloud business 35 PART I Item 2 Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The metrics reflect our cloud and on-premises product strategies and trends. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Commercial products and cloud services (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other Office services Office 365 Commercial seat growth The number of Office 365 Commercial seats at end of period where seats are paid users covered by an Office 365 Commercial subscription Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers The number of Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers at end of period Dynamics products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Customer Insights, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications LinkedIn revenue growth Revenue from LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, Sales Solutions, and Learning Solutions Server products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Server products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs); and Nuance and GitHub More Personal Computing Metrics related to our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance of key lines of business within this segment. These metrics provide strategic product insights which allow us to assess the performance across our commercial and consumer businesses. As we have diversity of target audiences and sales motions within the Windows business, we monitor metrics that are reflective of those varying motions. Windows OEM revenue growth Revenue from sales of Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Windows Commercial products and cloud services, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings Surface revenue growth Revenue from Surface devices and accessories Xbox content and services revenue growth Revenue from Xbox content and services, comprising digital transactions, Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, video games, third-party video game royalties, cloud services, and advertising Search and news advertising revenue, excluding TAC, growth Revenue from search and news advertising excluding traffic acquisition costs (TAC) paid to Bing Ads network publishers and news partners 36 PART I Item 2 SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2022 2021 2022 2021 Revenue $ 49,360 $ 41,706 18% $ 146,405 $ 121,936 20% Gross margin 33,745 28,661 18% 100,184 83,695 20% Operating income 20,364 17,048 19% 62,849 50,821 24% Net income 16,728 15,457 8% 55,998 44,813 25% Diluted earnings per share 2.22 2.03 9% 7.41 5.88 26% Adjusted net income (non-GAAP) 16,728 14,837 13% 52,707 44,193 19% Adjusted diluted earnings per share (non-GAAP) 2.22 1.95 14% 6.98 5.80 20% Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude the net income tax benefit related to transfer of intangible properties in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 and the net income tax benefit related to an India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for a reconciliation of our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. Refer to Note 11 Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Revenue increased $7.7 billion or 18% driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure and other cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Windows and Search and news advertising. Cost of revenue increased $2.6 billion or 20% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud. Gross margin increased $5.1 billion or 18% driven by growth across each of our segments. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate for the useful lives of our server and network equipment, gross margin percentage increased 1 point driven by improvements in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased slightly to 70%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased 3 points driven by improvement across our cloud services, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services. Operating expenses increased $1.8 billion or 15% driven by investments in cloud engineering, LinkedIn, and commercial sales. Key changes in operating expenses were: Research and development expenses increased $1.1 billion or 21% driven by investments in cloud engineering. Sales and marketing expenses increased $513 million or 10% driven by investments in commercial sales and LinkedIn. Sales and marketing included a favorable foreign currency impact of 3%. General and administrative expenses increased $153 million or 12% driven by investments in corporate functions. General and administrative included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Operating income increased $3.3 billion or 19% driven by growth across each of our segments. Prior year net income and diluted EPS were positively impacted by the tax benefit related to the India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes, which resulted in an increase to net income and diluted EPS of $620 million and $0.08, respectively. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. Operating expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. 37 PART I Item 2 Nine Months Ended March 31, 202 2 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 202 1 Revenue increased $24.5 billion or 20% driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure and other cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Windows, Search and news advertising, and Gaming. Cost of revenue increased $8.0 billion or 21% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud. Gross margin increased $16.5 billion or 20% driven by growth across each of our segments. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased 2 points driven by improvements across each of our segments. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased slightly to 70%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased 3 points driven by improvement across our cloud services, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services. Operating expenses increased $4.5 billion or 14% driven by investments in cloud engineering, LinkedIn, Gaming, and commercial sales. Key changes in operating expenses were: Research and development expenses increased $2.6 billion or 18% driven by investments in cloud engineering and Gaming. Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.3 billion or 9% driven by investments in commercial sales, LinkedIn, and Windows marketing. General and administrative expenses increased $566 million or 16% driven by investments in corporate functions. Operating income increased $12.0 billion or 24% driven by growth across each of our segments. Current year net income and diluted EPS were positively impacted by the net tax benefit related to the transfer of intangible properties, which resulted in an increase to net income and diluted EPS of $3.3 billion and $0.43, respectively. Prior year net income and diluted EPS were positively impacted by the net tax benefit related to the India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes, which resulted in an increase to net income and diluted EPS of $620 million and $0.08, respectively. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2022 2021 2022 2021 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 15,789 $ 13,552 17% $ 46,764 $ 39,224 19% Intelligent Cloud 19,051 15,118 26% 54,342 42,705 27% More Personal Computing 14,520 13,036 11% 45,299 40,007 13% Total $ 49,360 $ 41,706 18% $ 146,405 $ 121,936 20% Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 7,184 $ 6,029 19% $ 22,453 $ 17,916 25% Intelligent Cloud 8,281 6,425 29% 24,040 18,339 31% More Personal Computing 4,899 4,594 7% 16,356 14,566 12% Total $ 20,364 $ 17,048 19% $ 62,849 $ 50,821 24% 38 PART I Item 2 Reportable Segments Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $2.2 billion or 17%. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $999 million or 12%. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 17% driven by seat growth of 16%, with continued momentum in small and medium business and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user. Office Commercial products revenue declined 28% driven by continued customer shift to cloud offerings. Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $150 million or 11% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer subscription revenue. Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers grew 16% to 58.4 million. LinkedIn revenue increased $875 million or 34% driven by a strong job market in our Talent Solutions business and advertising demand in our Marketing Solutions business. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 22% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 35%. Operating income increased $1.2 billion or 19%. Gross margin increased $1.7 billion or 16% driven by growth in Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased 2 points driven by improvement across all cloud services. Operating expenses increased $565 million or 13% driven by investments in LinkedIn and cloud engineering. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $3.9 billion or 26%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $3.8 billion or 29% driven by Azure and other cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 46% driven by growth in our consumption-based services. Server products revenue increased 5% driven by hybrid solutions, including Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi-cloud environments. Enterprise Services revenue increased $88 million or 5% driven by growth in Enterprise Support Services. Operating income increased $1.9 billion or 29%. Gross margin increased $2.6 billion or 24% driven by growth in Azure and other cloud services. Gross margin percentage decreased. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased 1 point driven by improvement in Azure and other cloud services, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services. Operating expenses increased $753 million or 17% driven by investments in Azure and other cloud services. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. Operating expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $1.5 billion or 11%. Windows revenue increased $614 million or 11% driven by growth in Windows OEM and Windows Commercial. Windows OEM revenue increased 11% driven by continued strength in the commercial PC market, which has higher revenue per license. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14% driven by demand for Microsoft 365. Search and news advertising revenue increased $544 million or 23%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 23% driven by higher revenue per search and search volume. 39 PART I Item 2 Gaming revenue in creased $ 207 million or 6% on a strong prior year comparable that benefited from Xbox Series X|S launches , driven by growth in Xbox content and services and Xbox Hardware. Xbox content and services revenue in creased 4% driven by growth in Xbox Game Pass subscriptions and first-party titles , offset in part by a decline in third-party titles . Xbox hardware revenue in creased 14% due to continued demand for Xbox Series X|S . Surface revenue increased $195 million or 13%. Operating income increased $305 million or 7%. Gross margin increased $755 million or 10% driven by growth in Windows and Search and news advertising. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Operating expenses increased $450 million or 17% driven by investments in Gaming, Search and news advertising, and Windows marketing. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 3%, and 3%, respectively. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2021 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $7.5 billion or 19%. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $3.5 billion or 14%. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 20% driven by seat growth of 16%, with continued momentum in small and medium business and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user. Office Commercial products revenue declined 19% driven by continued customer shift to cloud offerings, on a low prior year comparable impacted by a slowdown in transactional licensing. Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $505 million or 12% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer subscription revenue. LinkedIn revenue increased $2.8 billion or 38% driven by a strong job market in our Talent Solutions business and advertising demand in our Marketing Solutions business. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 27% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 42%. Operating income increased $4.5 billion or 25%. Gross margin increased $5.9 billion or 19% driven by growth in Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased 2 points driven by improvement across all cloud services. Operating expenses increased $1.4 billion or 11% driven by investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $11.6 billion or 27%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $11.4 billion or 31% driven by Azure and other cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 47% driven by growth in our consumption-based services. Server products revenue increased 8% driven by hybrid solutions, including Windows Server and SQL Server running in multi-cloud environments. Enterprise Services revenue increased $370 million or 7% driven by growth in Enterprise Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Operating income increased $5.7 billion or 31%. Gross margin increased $7.5 billion or 24% driven by growth in Azure and other cloud services. Gross margin percentage decreased. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased 1 point driven by improvement in Azure and other cloud services, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services. Operating expenses increased $1.8 billion or 15% driven by investments in Azure and other cloud services. 40 PART I Item 2 More Personal Computing Revenue increased $5.3 billion or 13%. Windows revenue increased $2.2 billion or 14% driven by growth in Windows OEM and Windows Commercial. Windows OEM revenue increased 16% driven by continued strength in the commercial PC market, which has higher revenue per license. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 13% driven by demand for Microsoft 365. Search and news advertising revenue increased $1.9 billion or 29%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 31% driven by higher revenue per search. Gaming revenue increased $1.1 billion or 10% on a strong prior year comparable that benefited from Xbox Series X|S launches and stay-at-home scenarios, driven by growth in Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services. Xbox hardware revenue increased 25% due to continued demand for Xbox Series X|S. Xbox content and services revenue increased 6% driven by growth in first-party titles and Xbox Game Pass subscriptions, offset in part by a decline in third-party titles. Surface revenue increased $90 million or 2%. Operating income increased $1.8 billion or 12%. Gross margin increased $3.0 billion or 14% driven by growth in Windows and Search and news advertising. Gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by sales mix shift to higher margin businesses and improvement in Search and news advertising. Operating expenses increased $1.3 billion or 16% driven by investments in Gaming, Windows marketing, and Search and news advertising. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2022 2021 2022 2021 Research and development $ 6,306 $ 5,204 21% $ 17,663 $ 15,029 18% As a percent of revenue 13% 12% 1ppt 12% 12% 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Research and development expenses increased $1.1 billion or 21% driven by investments in cloud engineering. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2021 Research and development expenses increased $2.6 billion or 18% driven by investments in cloud engineering and Gaming. 41 PART I Item 2 Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2022 2021 2022 2021 Sales and marketing $ 5,595 $ 5,082 10% $ 15,521 $ 14,260 9% As a percent of revenue 11% 12% (1)ppt 11% 12% (1)ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Sales and marketing expenses increased $513 million or 10% driven by investments in commercial sales and LinkedIn. Sales and marketing included a favorable foreign currency impact of 3%. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2021 Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.3 billion or 9% driven by investments in commercial sales, LinkedIn, and Windows marketing. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2022 2021 2022 2021 General and administrative $ 1,480 $ 1,327 12% $ 4,151 $ 3,585 16% As a percent of revenue 3% 3% 0ppt 3% 3% 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 General and administrative expenses increased $153 million or 12% driven by investments in corporate functions. General and administrative included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2021 General and administrative expenses increased $566 million or 16% driven by investments in corporate functions. 42 PART I Item 2 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended March 31, Nine Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Interest and dividends income $ 519 $ 519 $ 1,542 $ 1,634 Interest expense (503 ) (633 ) (1,567 ) (1,793 ) Net recognized gains (losses) on investments (76 ) 353 595 837 Net losses on derivatives (29 ) (2 ) (29 ) (4 ) Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (74 ) (55 ) (152 ) 126 Other, net (11 ) 6 (9 ) 76 Total $ (174 ) $ 188 $ 380 $ 876 We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Interest and dividends income was unchanged as lower portfolio balances were offset by higher yields on interest rate securities. Interest expense decreased due to a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities. Net recognized losses on investments increased due to losses on equity securities in the current period compared to gains in the prior period. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2021 Interest and dividends income decreased due to lower portfolio balances. Interest expense decreased due to a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities. Net recognized gains on investments decreased due to lower gains on equity securities. INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Our effective tax rate was 17% and 10% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and 11% and 13% for the nine months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the prior year was primarily due to tax benefits from a decision by the India Supreme Court on withholding taxes in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited vs The Commissioner of Income Tax and an agreement between the U.S. and India tax authorities related to transfer pricing in fiscal year 2021, a decrease in tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation, and changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the nine months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the prior year was primarily due to a $3.3 billion net income tax benefit in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 related to the transfer of intangible properties, offset in part by tax benefits from the India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes and an agreement between the U.S. and India tax authorities related to transfer pricing in fiscal year 2021, and changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries. We have historically paid India withholding taxes on software sales through distributor withholding and tax audit assessments in India. In March 2021, the India Supreme Court ruled favorably for companies in 86 separate appeals, some dating back to 2012, holding that software sales are not subject to India withholding taxes. Although we were not a party to the appeals, our software sales in India were determined to be not subject to withholding taxes. Therefore, we recorded a net income tax benefit of $620 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021 to reflect the results of the India Supreme Court decision impacting fiscal year 1996 through fiscal year 2016. 43 PART I Item 2 In the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, we transferred certain intangible properties from our Puerto Rico subsidiary to the U.S. The transfer of intangible properties resulted in a $3.3 billion net income tax benefit in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, as the value of future U.S. tax deductions exceeds the current tax liability from the U.S. global intangible low-taxed income tax. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2022, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations center in Ireland, tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation, and for the nine months ended March 31, 2022, the net income tax benefit related to the transfer of intangible properties. Uncertain Tax Positions We settled a portion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 in fiscal year 2011. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report related to unresolved issues for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. We also settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 in fiscal year 2016, and a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2010 to 2013 in fiscal year 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, we settled an additional portion of the IRS audits for tax years 2004 to 2013 and made a payment of $1.7 billion, including tax and interest. We remain under audit for tax years 2004 to 2017. As of March 31, 2022, the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate to transfer pricing, which could have a material impact in our consolidated financial statements when the matters are resolved. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved key transfer pricing issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2021, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolution of each of these audits is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude the net tax benefit related to the transfer of intangible properties in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 and the net income tax benefit related to an India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021. We believe these non-GAAP measures aid investors by providing additional insight into our operational performance and help clarify trends affecting our business. For comparability of reporting, management considers non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP financial results in evaluating business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures presented should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. 44 PART I Item 2 The following table reconciles our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results: (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2022 2021 2022 2021 Net income $ 16,728 $ 15,457 8% $ 55,998 $ 44,813 25% Net income tax benefit related to transfer of intangible properties 0 0 * (3,291 ) 0 * Net income tax benefit related to India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes 0 (620 ) * 0 (620 ) * Adjusted net income (non-GAAP) $ 16,728 $ 14,837 13% $ 52,707 $ 44,193 19% Diluted earnings per share $ 2.22 $ 2.03 9% $ 7.41 $ 5.88 26% Net income tax benefit related to transfer of intangible properties 0 0 * (0.43 ) 0 * Net income tax benefit related to India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes 0 (0.08 ) * 0 (0.08 ) * Adjusted diluted earnings per share (non-GAAP) $ 2.22 $ 1.95 14% $ 6.98 $ 5.80 20% * Not meaningful. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $104.7 billion and $130.3 billion as of March 31, 2022 and June 30, 2021, respectively. Equity investments were $6.9 billion and $6.0 billion as of March 31, 2022 and June 30, 2021, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. 45 PART I Item 2 A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Cash from operations increased $10.4 billion to $64.4 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2022, mainly due to an increase in cash received from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees. Cash used in financing increased $8.5 billion to $45.6 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2022, mainly due to a $5.3 billion increase in repayments of debt and a $3.7 billion increase in common stock repurchases. Cash used in investing increased $3.9 billion to $20.6 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2022, mainly due to a $12.4 billion increase in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible and other assets, and a $2.8 billion increase in additions to property and equipment, offset in part by a $11.7 billion increase in cash from net investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Debt We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. In March 2021 and June 2020, we exchanged a portion of our existing debt at a premium for cash and new debt with longer maturities to take advantage of favorable financing rates in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. Refer to Note 10 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include Software Assurance (SA) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of March 31, 2022: (In millions) Three Months Ending June 30, 2022 $ 16,179 September 30, 2022 8,873 December 31, 2022 6,481 March 31, 2023 2,494 Thereafter 2,769 Total $ 36,796 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. 46 PART I Item 2 Share Repurchases For the nine months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, we repurchased 67 million shares and 77 million shares of our common stock for $20.2 billion and $16.8 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 15 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Dividends Refer to Note 15 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. Additionally, we have agreed to cover damages resulting from breaches of certain security and privacy commitments in our cloud business. In evaluating estimated losses on these obligations, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact in our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital On January 18, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Activision Blizzard, Inc. (Activision Blizzard) for $95.00 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at $68.7 billion, inclusive of Activision Blizzards net cash. We expect this acquisition to close in fiscal year 2023, subject to approval by Activision Blizzards shareholders, the satisfaction of certain regulatory approvals, and other customary closing conditions. We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity As a result of the TCJA, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. We have paid transition tax of $6.2 billion, which included $1.5 billion during the nine months ended March 31, 2022. The remaining transition tax of $12.0 billion is payable over the next four years with a final payment in fiscal year 2026. We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the TCJA, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 47 PART I Item 2 APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies, as well as uncertainty in the current economic environment due to COVID-19. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, legal and other contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP. Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers. Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented. Impairment of Investment Securities We review debt investments quarterly for credit losses and impairment. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net. 48 PART I Item 2 Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 49 PART I Item 2 Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. 50 PART I Item 3, 4