ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note About Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, the following sections: Managements Discussion and Analysis, and Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, strategy, future, opportunity, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section titled Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2013 and our financial statements and accompanying Notes to Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q. Microsoft is a technology leader focused on helping people and businesses throughout the world realize their full potential. We create technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate across a wide range of computing devices. We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products, by offering an array of services, including cloud-based services to consumers and businesses, by designing and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services, and income taxes. Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Key Opportunities and Investments Based on our assessment of key technology trends and our broad focus on long-term research and development of new products and services, we see significant opportunities to generate future growth. We invest research and development resources in new products and services in these areas. The capabilities and accessibility of PCs, tablets, phones, televisions, and other devices powered by rich software platforms and applications continue to grow. With this trend, we believe the full potential of software will be seen and felt in how people use these devices and the associated services at work and in their personal lives. Devices with end-user services We work with an ecosystem of partners to deliver a broad spectrum of Windows devices. In some cases we build our own devices, as we have chosen to do with Xbox and Surface. In all of our work with partners and on our own devices, we focus on delivering seamless services and experiences across devices. As consumer services and hardware advance, we 30 PART I Item 2 expect they will continue to better complement one another, connecting the devices people use daily to unique communications, productivity, and entertainment services from Microsoft and our partners and developers around the world. Windows 8 reflects this shift. Launched in October 2012, Windows 8 was designed to unite the light, thin, and convenient aspects of a tablet with the power of a PC. The Windows 8 operating system includes the Windows Store, which offers a large and growing number of applications from Microsoft and partners for both business and consumer customers. The general availability of Windows 8.1, which will enable new hardware and further the integration with other Microsoft services, started on October 17, 2013. Going forward, our strategy will focus on creating a family of devices and services for individuals and businesses that empower people around the globe at home, at work, and on the go, for the activities they value most. This strategy will require investment in datacenters and other infrastructure to support our services, and will bring continued competition with Apple, Google, and other well-established and emerging competitors. We believe our history of powering devices such as Windows PCs and Xbox, as well as our experience delivering high-value experiences through Office and other applications, will position us for future success. Services for the enterprise Today, businesses face important opportunities and challenges. Enterprises are asked to deploy technology that drives business strategy forward. They decide what solutions will make employees more productive, collaborative, and satisfied, or connect with customers in new and compelling ways. They work to unlock business insights from a world of data. At the same time, they must manage and secure corporate information that employees access across a growing number of personal and corporate devices. To address these opportunities, businesses look to our world-class business applications like Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, Yammer, Microsoft Dynamics, and our business intelligence solutions. They rely on our technology to manage employee corporate identity and to protect their corporate data. And, increasingly, businesses of all sizes are looking to Microsoft to realize the benefits of the cloud. Helping businesses move to the cloud is one of our largest opportunities. Cloud-based solutions provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet by way of shared computing resources located in centralized data centers. The shift to the cloud is driven by three important economies of scale: larger data centers can deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; larger data centers can coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. Because of the improved economics, the cloud offers unique levels of elasticity and agility that enable new solutions and applications. For businesses of all sizes, the cloud creates the opportunity to focus on innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities to reliable and cost-effective providers. We continue to design and deliver cloud solutions that allow our customers to use both the cloud and their on-premise assets however best suits their own needs. For example, a company can choose to deploy Office or Microsoft Dynamics on premise, as a cloud service, or a combination of both. With Windows Server 2012, Windows Azure, and System Center infrastructure, businesses can deploy applications in their own datacenter, a partners datacenter, or in Microsofts datacenter with common security, management, and administration across all environments, with the flexibility and scale they desire. These hybrid capabilities allow customers to fully harness the power of the cloud so they can achieve greater levels of efficiency and tap new areas of growth. Our future opportunity There are several distinct areas of technology that we are focused on driving forward. Our goal is to lead the industry in these areas over the long-term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth well into the future. We are investing significant resources in: Developing new form factors that have increasingly natural ways to use them, including touch, gesture, and speech. Applying machine learning to make technology more intuitive and able to act on our behalf, instead of at our command. 31 PART I Item 2 Building and running cloud-based services in ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. Establishing our Windows platform across the PC, tablet, phone, server, and cloud to drive a thriving ecosystem of developers, unify the cross-device user experience, and increase agility when bringing new advances to market. Delivering new high-value experiences with improvements in how people learn, work, play, and interact with one another. We believe the breadth of our devices and services portfolio, our large, global partner and customer base, and the growing Windows ecosystem position us to be a leader in these areas. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services is dynamic and highly competitive. Some of our traditional businesses such as the Windows operating system are in a period of transition. Our competitors are developing new devices and deploy competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud and in some cases the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve and adapt, over an extended time, in pace with this changing environment. To support our strategy of offering a family of devices and services designed to empower our customers for the activities they value most, we announced a change in our organizational structure in July 2013. Through this realignment our goal is to become more nimble, collaborative, communicative, motivated, and decisive. Even if we achieve these benefits, the investments we are making in devices and infrastructure to support our cloud-based services will increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. We prioritize our investments among the highest long-term growth opportunities. These investments require significant resources and are multi-year in nature. The products and services we bring to market may be developed internally, as part of a partnership or alliance, or through acquisition. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals worldwide by offering broad customer reach, scale in resources, and competitive compensation. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and hardware is correlated to global macroeconomic factors, which remain dynamic. See a discussion of these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). Unearned Revenue Quarterly and annual revenue may be impacted by the deferral of revenue. See the discussions within Corporate and Other below regarding: revenue deferred on pre-sales of Windows 8.1 to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and retailers before general availability (Windows 8.1 Pre-Sales); revenue deferred on sales of Windows 7 with an option to upgrade to Windows 8 Pro at a discounted price (the Windows Upgrade Offer) and pre-sales of Windows 8 to OEMs and retailers before general availability (collectively, the Windows Deferral); and revenue deferred on sales of the previous version of the Microsoft Office system, with a guarantee to be upgraded to the new Office at minimal or no cost (the Office Upgrade Offer) and pre-sales of the new Office to OEMs and retailers before general availability (collectively, the Office Deferral). If our customers elect to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Reportable Segments The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Segment information appearing in Note 16 Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) is also presented on this basis. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. Operating expenses are not allocated to our segments. 32 PART I Item 2 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we changed our organizational structure as part of our transformation to a devices and services company. As a result of these changes, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, we have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor segment performance during the current fiscal year. Our reportable segments are described below. Devices and Consumer (D&C) Our D&C segments develop and market products and services designed to entertain and connect people, increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our D&C segments are: D&C Licensing , comprising: Windows, including all OEM licensing (Windows OEM) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing of the Windows operating system and related software (collectively, Consumer Windows); non-volume licensing of Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (Consumer Office); Windows Phone, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue; D&C Hardware , comprising: the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console and accessories, second-party and third-party video games, and Xbox LIVE subscriptions (Xbox Platform); Surface; and Microsoft PC accessories; and D&C Other , comprising: Resale, including Windows Store, Xbox LIVE transactions, and the Windows Phone Marketplace; search advertising; display advertising; Subscription, comprising Office 365 (O365) Home Premium; Studios, comprising first-party video games; our retail stores; and certain other consumer products and services not included in the categories above. Commercial Our Commercial segments develop and market software and services designed to increase individual, team, and organization productivity and efficiency, and to simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the users hardware and software. Our Commercial segments are: Commercial Licensing , comprising: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, and System Center; Windows Embedded; volume licensing of the Windows operating system, excluding academic (Commercial Windows); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync (Commercial Office); Client Access Licenses, which provide access rights to certain server products (CAL); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online; and Skype; and Commercial Other , comprising: Enterprise Services, including Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services; Cloud Services, comprising O365, excluding O365 Home Premium (Commercial O365), other Microsoft Office online offerings, Dynamics CRM Online, and Windows Azure; and certain other commercial products and online services not included in the categories above. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Summary (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Revenue $ 18,529 $ 16,008 16% Operating income $ 6,334 $ 5,308 19% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.62 $ 0.53 17% Revenue increased, mainly due to higher Commercial Licensing, D&C Hardware, and Commercial Other revenue. Revenue was also impacted by the timing of revenue deferrals. 33 PART I Item 2 Operating income increased, reflecting higher revenue and lower general and administrative expenses, offset in part by higher cost of revenue, sales and marketing expenses, and research and development expenses. Key changes in cost of revenue and operating expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $946 million or 23%, primarily due to Surface product costs, as well as higher datacenter and headcount-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $359 million or 12%, due mainly to increased advertising of Windows Phone 8 and Surface and higher headcount-related expenses, as well as due to higher fees paid to third-party enterprise software advisors. Research and development expenses increased $307 million or 12%, due mainly to higher capitalization of certain costs in the prior year. General and administrative expenses decreased $117 million or 10%, primarily due to lower legal charges. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Devices and Consumer (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Revenue Licensing $ 4,343 $ 4,678 (7)% Hardware 1,485 1,084 37% Other 1,635 1,400 17% Total revenue $ 7,463 $ 7,162 4% Gross Margin Licensing $ 3,925 $ 4,103 (4)% Hardware 206 448 (54)% Other 352 362 (3)% Total gross margin $ 4,483 $ 4,913 (9)% Devices and Consumer revenue increased $301 million or 4%, reflecting continued adoption of the Windows platform, including customer adoption of new Windows-enabled devices. Devices and Consumer gross margin declined $430 million or 9%, due mainly to our preparation for new product launches. D&C Licensing D&C Licensing revenue decreased $335 million or 7%, due mainly to lower revenue from licenses of Windows OEM and Consumer Office, offset in part by increased Windows Phone revenue. Windows OEM revenue declined $237 million or 7%, reflecting a 22% decrease in OEM non-Pro revenue, offset in part by a 6% increase in OEM Pro revenue. Consumer Office revenue declined $217 million or 23%. These decreases resulted primarily from the impact on revenue of a decline in consumer demand. In the case of Consumer Office, the decline was also influenced by the transition of customers to O365 Home Premium, offset by increased levels of Office attached to devices shipped. Windows Phone revenue increased $102 million, including an increase in patent licensing revenue. D&C Licensing gross margin decreased $178 million or 4%, due to decreased revenue, offset in part by a $157 million or 27% decrease in cost of revenue. D&C Licensing cost of revenue decreased, due mainly to lower traffic acquisition costs. D&C Hardware D&C Hardware revenue increased $401 million or 37%, due primarily to Surface revenue of $400 million. The general availability of Surface RT and Surface Pro started October 26, 2012 and February 9, 2013, respectively. D&C Hardware gross margin decreased $242 million or 54%, due to a $643 million or 101% increase in cost of revenue, offset in part by higher revenue. D&C Hardware cost of revenue increased, primarily due to $645 million higher Surface cost of revenue. Surface product costs increased with higher volumes sold, while other costs grew as we ready inventory lines for the Surface 2 launch and the holiday sales cycle. 34 PART I Item 2 D&C Other D&C Other revenue increased $235 million or 17%, due mainly to higher advertising revenue, which increased $106 million or 13%. Search advertising revenue growth was offset in part by a decline in display advertising revenue. Search advertising revenue increased 47%, due primarily to increased revenue per search resulting from ongoing improvements in ad products and higher search volume, offset in part by lower display advertising revenue, which was down 31%, due mainly to a decline in Outlook.com advertising revenue. D&C Other revenue also increased $129 million or 21%, primarily due to higher volumes of content resold through our online platforms. D&C Other gross margin decreased slightly, due to a $245 million or 24% increase in cost of revenue, substantially offset by higher revenue. D&C Other cost of revenue increased, due mainly to a $99 million or 20% increase in advertising cost of revenue, reflecting increased investment in online infrastructure and higher traffic acquisition costs. D&C Other cost of revenue also increased, due mainly to royalty costs on higher volumes of resale transactions. Commercial (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Revenue Licensing $ 9,594 $ 8,945 7% Other 1,603 1,248 28% Total revenue $ 11,197 $ 10,193 10% Gross Margin Licensing $ 8,801 $ 8,183 8% Other 275 105 162% Total gross margin $ 9,076 $ 8,288 10% Commercial revenue increased $1.0 billion or 10%, reflecting growth in our traditional businesses as well as adoption by customers of our cloud services. Commercial gross margin increased $788 million or 10%, in line with revenue growth. Commercial Licensing Commercial Licensing revenue increased $649 million or 7%, due primarily to increased revenue from our server, CAL, and Office licenses offset in part by the transition of customers to Commercial O365. Annuity revenue grew 8% driven by growth in revenue from volume licensing with Software Assurance. Non-annuity revenue grew 4% driven by increased sales of Office and SQL Server. Commercial Licensing gross margin increased $618 million or 8%, due to higher revenue, offset in part by a $31 million or 4% increase in cost of revenue. Commercial Other Commercial Other revenue increased $355 million or 28%, due to higher Cloud Services revenue and Enterprise Services revenue. Cloud Services revenue grew $261 million or 103%, due mainly to higher revenue from Commercial O365. Enterprise Services revenue grew $93 million or 9%, due to growth in both Premier product support and consulting services. Commercial Other gross margin increased $170 million or 162%, due to higher revenue, offset in part by a $185 million or 16% increase in cost of revenue. The increase in cost of revenue was due mainly to higher datacenter expenses, reflecting investment in online operations infrastructure, and increased headcount-related expenses due to higher headcount. 35 PART I Item 2 Corporate and Other (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Revenue $ (131 ) $ (1,347 ) 90% Gross margin $ (144 ) $ (1,361 ) 89% Corporate and Other revenue comprises certain revenue deferrals, including those related to product and service upgrade offers and pre-sales of new products to OEMs prior to general availability. Corporate and Other revenue increased $1.2 billion or 90%, primarily due to the timing of revenue deferrals. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we deferred $113 million of revenue, primarily related to Windows 8.1 Pre-Sales. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we deferred $1.2 billion and $189 million of revenue related to the Windows Deferral and Office Deferral, respectively. Corporate and Other gross margin increased $1.2 billion or 89%, due mainly to increased revenue. COST OF REVENUE Cost of Revenue (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Cost of revenue $ 5,114 $ 4,168 23% As a percent of revenue 28 % 26 % 2ppt Cost of revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold, including Xbox and Surface, and programs licensed; operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include software on PCs sold by OEMs, to drive traffic to our websites, and to acquire online advertising space (traffic acquisition costs); costs incurred to support and maintain Internet-based products and services, including datacenter costs and royalties; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery of consulting services; and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs. Cost of revenue increased, primarily due to a $645 million increase in Surface product costs, as well as higher datacenter and headcount-related expenses. Datacenter expenses increased $185 million or 51%, reflecting investment in online operations infrastructure. Headcount-related expenses increased $132 million or 13%, largely related to increased headcount within our Commercial Other segment. 36 PART I Item 2 OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Research and development $ 2,767 $ 2,460 12% As a percent of revenue 15 % 15 % 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code. Research and development expenses increased, primarily reflecting higher capitalization of certain costs in the prior year, mainly related to Office 2013 and Windows 8. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 Sales and marketing $ 3,304 $ 2,945 12% As a percent of revenue 18 % 18 % 0ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased, the largest driver of which was a $111 million or 37% increase in advertising, largely for Windows Phone 8 and Surface. Sales and marketing expenses also increased due to higher headcount-related expenses, largely related to our retail stores, and higher fees paid to third-party enterprise software advisors. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2013 2012 General and administrative $ 1,010 $ 1,127 (10)% As a percent of revenue 5 % 7 % (2)ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses decreased, due mainly to a $73 million decrease in legal charges. 37 PART I Item 2 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components of other income (expense) were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 2012 Dividends and interest income $ 179 $ 159 Interest expense (118 ) (95 ) Net recognized losses on investments (7 ) (15 ) Net gains (losses) on derivatives (86 ) 4 Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements 26 (29 ) Other 80 202 Total $ 74 $ 226 We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income (OCI) until the securities are sold or other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) into other income (expense). Net gains on derivatives decreased due to lower gains on commodity derivatives and higher losses on foreign exchange derivatives in the current period as compared to the comparable period. Other reflects recognized gains on divestitures, including the gain recognized upon the divestiture of our 50% share in the MSNBC joint venture in fiscal year 2013. INCOME TAXES Our effective tax rates were approximately 18% and 19% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. This quarters effective tax rate was lower than the prior years first quarter effective tax rate, primarily due to foreign earnings taxed at lower tax rates. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $9.0 billion and $9.4 billion as of September 30, 2013 and June 30, 2013, respectively, and were included in other long-term liabilities. While we settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we remain under audit for these years. In February 2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of September 30, 2013, the primary unresolved issue related to transfer pricing which could have a significant impact on our financial statements if not resolved favorably. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months, as we do not believe the remaining open issues will be resolved within the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2012. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2012, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $80.7 billion as of September 30, 2013, compared with $77.0 billion as of June 30, 2013. Equity and other investments were $12.0 billion as of September 30, 2013 compared to $10.8 38 PART I Item 2 billion as of June 30, 2013. Our short-term investments are primarily to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. While we own certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio as of September 30, 2013 does not contain direct exposure to subprime mortgages or structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority of our mortgage-backed securities are collateralized by prime residential mortgages and carry a 100% principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. We routinely monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and counterparties. Our gross exposures to our customers and investments in Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece, and Spain are individually and collectively not material. Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at September 30, 2013, approximately $76.0 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was approximately $1.0 billion. As of September 30, 2013, approximately 88% of the cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 4% were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, and approximately 2% were invested in U.S. mortgage-backed securities, all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. Securities lending We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $582 million as of September 30, 2013. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the three months ended September 30, 2013 were $595 million and $765 million, respectively. Intra-quarter variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. government securities. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and U.S. agency securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. 39 PART I Item 2 Cash Flows Cash flows from operations decreased slightly by $279 million or 3%, to $8.2 billion, primarily due to changes in working capital. Cash used in financing increased $682 million or 25%, to $3.4 billion, due mainly to $1.0 billion in debt repayments, a $556 million increase in cash used for common stock repurchases, and a $240 million increase in dividends paid, partially offset by $1.3 billion in issuances of commercial paper. Cash used in investing decreased $3.1 billion or 40%, to $4.6 billion, due mainly to a $2.3 billion decrease in cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, and a $1.1 billion decrease in cash used for acquisition of companies and purchases of intangible and other assets, partially offset by a $628 million increase in capital expenditures for property and equipment. Debt As of September 30, 2013, we had $15.9 billion of issued and outstanding debt, comprising $1.3 billion of commercial paper and $14.6 billion of long-term debt, including the current portion. We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Short-term debt As of September 30, 2013, we had $1.3 billion of commercial paper issued and outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.10% and maturities of 70 to 98 days. The estimated fair value of this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. In June 2013, we entered into a $1.3 billion credit facility, which serves as a back-up for our commercial paper. As of September 30, 2013, we were in compliance with the only financial covenant in the credit agreement, which requires us to maintain a coverage ratio of at least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization to interest expense, as defined in the credit agreement. The credit facility expires on June 24, 2018. No amounts were drawn against the credit facility since its inception. Long-term debt As of September 30, 2013, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt, including the current portion, were $14.6 billion and $14.5 billion, respectively. This is compared to a carrying value and estimated fair value of $15.6 billion and $15.8 billion, respectively, as of June 30, 2013. These estimated fair values are based on Level 2 inputs. 40 PART I Item 2 The components of our long-term debt, including the current portion, and the associated interest rates were as follows as of September 30, 2013: Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate (In millions) Notes June 1, 2014 $ 2,000 2.950% 3.049% September 25, 2015 1,750 1.625% 1.795% February 8, 2016 750 2.500% 2.642% November 15, 2017 600 0.875% 1.084% May 1, 2018 450 1.000% 1.106% June 1, 2019 1,000 4.200% 4.379% October 1, 2020 1,000 3.000% 3.137% February 8, 2021 500 4.000% 4.082% November 15, 2022 750 2.125% 2.239% May 1, 2023 1,000 2.375% 2.465% May 2, 2033 (a) 745 2.625% 2.690% June 1, 2039 750 5.200% 5.240% October 1, 2040 1,000 4.500% 4.567% February 8, 2041 1,000 5.300% 5.361% November 15, 2042 900 3.500% 3.571% May 1, 2043 500 3.750% 3.829% Total $ 14,695 (a) In April 2013, we issued 550 million of debt securities. The notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. Interest on the notes is paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities on which interest is paid annually. As of September 30, 2013, the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $63 million. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue at September 30, 2013 comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue at September 30, 2013 also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions and prepaid points; OEM minimum commitments; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; Office 365 Home Premium subscriptions; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of September 30, 2013: (In millions) Three Months Ending, December 31, 2013 $ 8,039 March 31, 2014 6,148 June 30, 2014 3,417 September 30, 2014 981 Thereafter 1,629 Total $ 20,214 41 PART I Item 2 Share Repurchases During the three months ended September 30, 2013, we repurchased 46.8 million shares of Microsoft common stock for $1.5 billion under the share repurchase plan we announced on September 22, 2008. All repurchases were made using cash resources. On September 16, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a new $40.0 billion share repurchase program, which replaced the share repurchase program that expired September 30, 2013. The new share repurchase program became effective on October 1, 2013, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. Dividends Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the periods presented: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date (in millions) September 16, 2013 $ 0.28 November 21, 2013 $ 2,337 December 12, 2013 September 18, 2012 $ 0.23 November 15, 2012 $ 1,933 December 13, 2012 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact on our financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital On September 2, 2013, we announced that we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of Nokia Corporations (Nokia) Devices & Services business, license Nokias patents, and license and use Nokias mapping services. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay 3.79 billion (approximately $5.0 billion) to purchase substantially all of Nokias Devices & Services business, and 1.65 billion (approximately $2.2 billion) to license Nokias patents, for a total transaction price of 5.44 billion (approximately $7.2 billion) in cash. We intend to draw upon our overseas cash resources to fund the acquisition. In connection with this agreement, on September 23, 2013 we provided Nokia 1.5 billion ($2.0 billion) of financing in the form of convertible notes, which are included in short-term investments on our balance sheet. Nokia will repay these notes from the proceeds of the acquisition upon closing. We expect the acquisition will close in the first calendar quarter of 2014, subject to approval by Nokias shareholders, regulatory approvals, and other closing conditions. In February 2013, we announced that we agreed to lend $2.0 billion to the group that has proposed to take Dell private upon the closing of their merger transaction. On September 12, 2013, Dell announced shareholder approval of the merger transaction. We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years in support of our cloud and devices strategy. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and 42 PART I Item 2 material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature of an entitys right to offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure of the gross amounts subject to rights of set-off, amounts offset in accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. In January 2013, the FASB clarified that the scope of this guidance applies to derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending arrangements that are either offset or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement, or similar agreements. We adopted this new guidance beginning July 1, 2013. Adoption of this new guidance resulted only in changes to the presentation of Note 5 Derivatives in the Notes to the Financial Statements. In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance on disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of AOCI. This new guidance requires entities to present (either on the face of the income statement or in the notes) the effects on the line items of the income statement for amounts reclassified out of AOCI. We adopted this new guidance beginning July 1, 2013. Adoption of this new guidance resulted only in changes to the presentation of Note 15 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in the Notes to the Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In March 2013, the FASB issued guidance on a parents accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity. This new guidance requires that the parent release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2014. We do not anticipate material impacts on our financial statements upon adoption. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether a software arrangement includes multiple elements, and if so, whether the vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for those elements. A portion of revenue may be recorded as unearned due to undelivered elements. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify the VSOE for those elements, and the fair value of the respective elements could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current products combined with rights to receive unspecified future versions of software products (Software Assurance) and are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period. 43 PART I Item 2 Software updates are evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether they meet the definition of an upgrade, which may require revenue to be deferred and recognized when the upgrade is delivered, or if it is determined that implied post-contract customer support (PCS) is being provided, revenue from the arrangement is deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. If updates are determined to not meet the definition of an upgrade, revenue is generally recognized as products are shipped or made available. Windows 8.1 will enable new hardware, further the integration with other Microsoft services and address customer issues with Windows 8, and will be provided to Windows 8 customers when available at no additional charge. We evaluated Windows 8.1 and determined that it did not meet the definition of an upgrade and thus have not deferred revenue related to this update. Windows 8.1 revenue was deferred for pre-sales of Windows 8.1 to original equipment manufacturers and retailers before general availability. Windows 7 revenue was subject to deferral as a result of the Windows Upgrade Offer, which started June 2, 2012. The offer provided significantly discounted rights to purchase Windows 8 Pro to qualifying end-users that purchased Windows 7 PCs during the eligibility period. Microsoft was responsible for delivering Windows 8 Pro to the end customer. Accordingly, revenue related to the allocated discount for undelivered Windows 8 was deferred until it was delivered or the redemption period expired. Microsoft Office system revenue was subject to deferral as a result of the Office Upgrade Offer, which started October 19, 2012. The Office Upgrade Offer allowed customers who purchased qualifying 2010 Microsoft Office system or Office for Mac 2011 products to receive, at no cost, a one-year subscription to Office 365 Home Premium or the equivalent version of 2013 Microsoft Office system upon general availability. Small business customers in applicable markets were also eligible for a three-month trial of Office 365 Small Business Premium. Accordingly, estimated revenue related to the undelivered 2013 Microsoft Office system and subscription services was deferred until the products and services were delivered or the redemption period expired. Impairment of Investment Securities We review investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. 44 PART I Item 2 The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure of a contingency is required if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. The determination of market value and the estimated volume of demand used in the lower of cost or market analysis require significant judgment. 45 PART I Item 2, 3 SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FISCAL YEAR 2013 REPORTABLE SEGMENT PRESENTATION To assist the reader in assessing the impact of our change in segments, in addition to the segment information provided in the Notes to Financial Statements, we have provided this quarters results of operations on the same basis as our historical reporting. Segment revenue and operating income (loss) reported in conformity with the fiscal year 2013 reportable segment presentation in our MD&A were as follows during the periods presented: (In millions) Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 2012 Revenue Windows Division $ 4,468 $ 3,244 Server and Tools 5,052 4,553 Online Services Division 872 697 Microsoft Business Division 5,991 5,501 Entertainment and Devices Division 2,070 1,947 Corporate and other 76 66 Consolidated revenue $ 18,529 $ 16,008 Operating Income (Loss) Windows Division $ 2,129 $ 1,651 Server and Tools 2,026 1,739 Online Services Division (321 ) (364 ) Microsoft Business Division 3,859 3,650 Entertainment and Devices Division (15 ) 21 Corporate and other (1,344 ) (1,389 ) Consolidated operating income $ 6,334 $ 5,308