Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report, including Part I Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II - Item 1A Risk Factors" contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as anticipate, believe, plan, expect, future, intend and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under Risk Factors, beginning at page 36 and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q . Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations; The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines; The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, and fixed cost absorption on gross margin; The amount of changes in demand for our products and those of our customers; The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter; The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us; Our belief that deferred cost of sales will have low risk of material impairment; Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base; Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase; The impact of any supply disruption we may experience; Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs; That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; That our existing facilities and planned expansion activities provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand; That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies; Our expectation that our wafer fabs will operate at high levels with no under-absorption of fixed costs; Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields; Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations; Our anticipated level of capital expenditures; Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends; The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity; The impact of seasonality on our business; The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards; That the resolution of legal actions will not harm our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss; That the idling of assets will not impair the value of such assets; The recoverability of our deferred tax assets; 17 The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate; Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact; The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets, and other liabilities; The adequacy of our patent strategy; Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation; The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims; The amount of labor unrest, public health issues, political instability, governmental interference and changes in general economic conditions that we experience; The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on income and/or cash flows; The effect of fluctuations in currency rates; Our ability to collect accounts receivable; Our belief that our investments in student loan auction rate municipal bond offerings are of high credit quality; Our ability to hold our fixed income investments and certain ARS until the market recovers, and the immaterial impact this will have on our liquidity; Our belief that unrealized losses in our investment portfolio do not represent other-than-temporary impairment; Our belief that any future changes in the fair value of the ARS associated with the ARS rights agreement will be largely offset by changes in the fair value of the related rights without any significant net impact to our income statement; The accuracy of our estimation of the cost effectivity of our insurance coverage; Our belief that our activities are conducted in compliance with various regulations not limited to environmental and export compliance; Our ability and intent to settle the principal amount of the junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash; and The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing our available-for-sale securities. We begin our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of Microchip's overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then discuss our Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources," "Contractual Obligations" and "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements." Strategy Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, which include microcontrollers, high-performance linear and mixed signal devices, power management and thermal management devices, interface devices, Serial EEPROMs, and our patented K ee L oq security devices. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers. We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries. The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, office automation and telecommunications. Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets. Beginning with the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the downturn in the U.S. and global economies adversely impacted our key markets resulting in adverse fluctuations in our business; however, in the first three quarters of fiscal 2010 we saw an upturn in our key markets, resulting in improvements to our business, though not to earlier levels of revenue and profitability equal to those we achieved in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2009. 18 Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and test profit margin. We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design (CAD) tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory and mixed-signal products, new development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products. We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of Microchip's financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, share-based compensation, inventories, investments, income taxes, property plant and equipment, impairment of property, plant and equipment, junior subordinated convertible debentures and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the 19 circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as our policy regarding revenue recognition to OEMs; however, we do not believe these policies require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult or subjective as our policies described below. Revenue Recognition - Distributors Our distributors worldwide generally have broad price protection and product return rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customer. Revenue is recognized when the distributor sells the product to an end-customer, at which time the sales price becomes fixed or determinable. Revenue is not recognized upon shipment to our distributors since, due to discounts from list price as well as price protection rights, the sales price is not substantially fixed or determinable at that time. At the time of shipment to these distributors, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieve inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represents the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognize in future periods could be less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions. We sell the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price. However, distributors resell our products to end customers at a very broad range of individually negotiated price points. The majority of our distributors' resales require a reduction from the original list price paid. Often, under these circumstances, we remit back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction is completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance. The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information to us regarding the sale to their end customer. The price reductions vary significantly based on the customer, product, quantity ordered, geographic location and other factors and discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare. The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price to our distributors for the product and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers. Thus, a portion of the "deferred income on shipments to distributors" balance represents the amount of distributors' original purchase price that will be credited back to the distributor in the future. The wide range and variability of negotiated price concessions granted to distributors does not allow us to accurately estimate the portion of the balance in the deferred income on shipments to distributors account that will be credited back to the distributors. Therefore, we do not reduce deferred income on shipments to distributors or accounts receivable by anticipated future concessions; rather, price concessions are typically recorded against deferred income on shipments to distributors and accounts receivable when incurred, which is generally at the time the distributor sells the product. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $143.6 million of deferred revenue and $46.0 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $97.6 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. At March 31, 2009, we had approximately $118.2 million of deferred revenue and $34.3 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $83.9 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our income statement will be lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet due to additional price credits to be granted to the distributors when the product is sold to their customers. These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognize in the distribution channel of our business. 20 Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $51.8 million at December 31, 2009 and $37.6 million at March 31, 2009. On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost. The sales price to our distributors may be higher than the amount that the distributors will ultimately owe us because distributors often negotiate price reductions after purchasing the product from us and such reductions are often significant. It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced. This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors. As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributor's working capital requirements. These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage. Such advances have no impact on our revenue recognition or our condensed consolidated statements of income. We process discounts taken by distributors against our deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance and true-up the advanced amounts generally after the end of each completed fiscal quarter. The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand. The agreements governing these advances can be cancelled by us at any time. We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors. Price protection is granted to distributors on the inventory they have on hand at the date the price protection is offered. When we reduce the price of our products, it allows the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it has on hand as of the date of the price reduction. There is no immediate revenue impact from the price protection, as it is reflected as a reduction of the deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance. Products returned by distributors and subsequently scrapped have historically been immaterial to our consolidated results of operations. We routinely evaluate the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account. Because of the historically immaterial amounts of inventory that have been scrapped, and historically rare instances where discounts given to a distributor result in a price less than our cost, we believe the deferred costs are recorded at their approximate carrying value. Share-Based Compensation We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, RSUs and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. Total share-based compensation during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 was $27.8 million, of which $22.5 million was reflected in operating expenses. Total share-based compensation reflected in cost of sales during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 was $4.8 million. Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $3.7 million at December 31, 2009. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. The fair value of our RSUs is based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant discounted for expected future dividends. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under stock participation plans. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. We use a blend of historical and implied volatility based on options freely traded in the open market as we believe this is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical volatility. The expected life of the awards is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our awards. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of future dividend payouts. We estimate the number of share-based awards that will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant effect on reported share-based compensation, as the effect of 21 adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher or lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase or decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which will result in a decrease or increase to the expense recognized in our financial statements. If forfeiture adjustments are made, they would affect our gross margin, research and development expenses, and selling, general, and administrative expenses. The effect of forfeiture adjustments through the third quarter of fiscal 2010 was immaterial. We evaluate the assumptions used to value our awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand. In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, such as in the second half of fiscal 2009 and the first half of fiscal 2010, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. Investments We classify our investments as trading securities or available-for-sale securities based upon management's intent with regard to the investments and the nature of the underlying securities. Our trading securities have consisted of strategic investments in shares of publicly traded common stock and ARS that we intend to dispose of through the exercise of a put option. (See Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the put option.) Our investments in trading securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in Other, net, in our consolidated statements of income. Our available-for-sale securities consist of government agency bonds, municipal bonds, ARS, and corporate bonds. Our investments in available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders' equity. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related available-for-sale security. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. The cost of securities sold is calculated using the specific identification method. We include within our short-term investments our trading securities, as well as our income yielding available-for-sale securities that can be readily converted to cash and include within long-term investments those income yielding available-for-sale securities with maturities of over one year that have unrealized losses attributable to them or those that cannot be readily liquidated. We have the ability to hold our long-term investments with temporary impairments until such time as these assets are no longer impaired. Such recovery of unrealized losses is not expected to occur within the next year. Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on certain of our investment portfolio of ARS, we utilize valuation models including those that are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation of our ARS investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact our ARS valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk, the ongoing strength and quality of the credit markets and market liquidity. 22 The credit markets experienced significant deterioration and uncertainty beginning in the second half of fiscal 2008. If these conditions continue, or we experience any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including our ARS), we may incur additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we believe that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At December 31, 2009, our gross deferred tax asset was $73.7 million. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the United States Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. At December 31, 2009, the carrying value of our property and equipment totaled $495.1 million, which represented 20.3% of our total assets. This carrying value reflects the application of our property and equipment accounting policies, which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to the useful lives of our property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from 5 to 7 years on manufacturing equipment, from 10 to 15 years on leasehold improvements and approximately 30 years on buildings. We began production activities at Fab 4 on October 31, 2003. We began to depreciate the Fab 4 assets as they were placed in service for production purposes. As of December 31, 2009, all of the buildings and supporting facilities were being depreciated as well as the manufacturing equipment that had been placed in service. All manufacturing equipment that was not being used in production activities was maintained in projects in process and is not being depreciated until it is placed into service since management believes there will be no change to its utility from the present time until it is placed into productive service. The lives to be used for depreciating this equipment at Fab 4 will be evaluated at such time as the assets are placed in service. We do not believe that the temporary idling of such assets has impaired the estimated life or carrying values of the underlying assets. 23 The estimates, assumptions and judgments we use in the application of our property and equipment policies reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding the useful lives of our property and equipment and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations, could result in materially different carrying values of assets and results of operations. Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment We assess whether indicators of impairment of long-lived assets are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less than their carrying value. If less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we recognize an impairment loss through a charge to our operating results to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset's carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. We may incur impairment losses, or additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors influencing our estimates change. Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures We separately account for the liability and equity components of our junior subordinated convertible debentures in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized. This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, certain embedded features of the debentures qualify as derivatives and are bundled as a compound embedded derivative that is measured at fair value. Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding junior subordinated convertible debentures in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price trigger or other contingent conversion feature has been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and current ability to settle the principal amount of the junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion price per share which was $30.73 at December 31, 2009 and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future. Litigation Our current estimated range of liability related to pending litigation is based on the probable loss of claims for which we can estimate the amount and range of loss. Recorded reserves were immaterial at December 31, 2009. Because of the uncertainties related to both the probability of loss and the amount and range of loss on our pending litigation, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from an unfavorable outcome. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operation and financial position. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, Nine Months Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2009 2008 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 41.6 45.5 45.4 40.7 Gross profit 58.4 54.5 54.6 59.3 Research and development 12.1 14.0 13.0 12.3 Selling, general and administrative 17.3 19.2 18.0 17.5 Special charge --- 0.2 0.2 0.1 Operating income 29.0 % 21.1 % 23.4 % 29.4 % 24 Net Sales We operate in one industry segment and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of market segments, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be provided primarily by letters of credit. Our net sales for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 were $250.1 million, an increase of 10.3% from the previous quarter's sales of $226.7 million, and an increase of 30.1% from net sales of $192.2 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 were $669.7 million, a decrease of 8.3% from net sales of $730.0 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The increases in net sales in the quarter ended December 31, 2009 over the previous quarter, and over the quarter ended December 31, 2008, were due primarily to improving semiconductor industry conditions and market share gains in our strategic product lines. The decrease in net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008, resulted primarily from adverse changes in global economic and end-market conditions across all of our product lines. Average selling prices for our products were down approximately 11% and 7% for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 over the corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year. The number of units of our products sold was up approximately 44% and down approximately 2% for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 over the corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year. The average selling prices and the unit volumes of our sales are impacted by the mix of our products sold and overall semiconductor market conditions. Key factors related to the amount of net sales during the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 include: global economic conditions in the markets we serve; semiconductor industry conditions; inventory holding patterns of our customers; increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products; customers' increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions; our new product offerings that have increased our served available market; and continued market share gains. Sales by product line for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, (unaudited) Nine Months Ended December 31, (unaudited) 2009 % 2008 % 2009 % 2008 % Microcontrollers $ 202,416 80.9 % $ 155,866 81.1 % $ 544,477 81.3 % $ 590,558 80.9 % Memory products 21,182 8.5 17,341 9.0 56,999 8.5 73,671 10.1 Analog and interface products 26,501 10.6 18,959 9.9 68,233 10.2 65,815 9.0 Total sales $ 250,099 100.0 % $ 192,166 100 .0 % $ 669,709 100.0 % $ 730,044 100.0 % 25 Microcontrollers Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 80.9% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 81.3% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to approximately 81.1% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2008 and approximately 80.9% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Net sales of our microcontroller products increased approximately 29.9% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and decreased approximately 7.8% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2008. The sales increase in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year resulted primarily from improving semiconductor industry conditions, market share gains and other factors described above. The sales decrease in the nine-month period over the same period last year were primarily due to adverse global economic conditions in the markets we serve and the other factors described above. The end markets that we serve include the consumer, automotive, industrial control, communications and computing markets. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able in the past, and expect to be able in the future, to moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. Memory Products Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 8.5% of our total net sales for each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 compared to approximately 9.0% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2008 and 10.1% of our total net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Net sales of our memory products increased approximately 22.1% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and decreased approximately 22.6% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2008. The sales increase in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year resulted primarily from improving semiconductor industry conditions. The sales decrease in the nine-month period over the same period last year were driven primarily by adverse global economic conditions leading to reduced customer demand within the Serial EEPROM market which products comprise substantially all of our memory product net sales. Serial EEPROM product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our Serial EEPROM products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our Serial EEPROM products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. Analog and Interface Products Sales of our analog and interface products accounted for approximately 10.6% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and 10.2% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to approximately 9.9% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2008 and 9.0% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Net sales of our analog and interface products increased approximately 39.8% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and 3.7% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2008. These sales increases were driven primarily by improving semiconductor industry conditions and market share gains achieved within the analog and interface market. 26 Analog and interface products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider more than half of our analog and interface product mix to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog and interface business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog and interface products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog and interface products will continue to increase over time. Distribution Distributors accounted for approximately 60% of our net sales in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 66% of our net sales in the three-month period ended December 31, 2008. Distributors accounted for approximately 61% of our net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 64% of our net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 12% of our net sales in each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 14% of our net sales in the three-month period ended December 31, 2008, and approximately 13% of our net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. At December 31, 2009, our distributors maintained 40 days of inventory of our products compared to 35 days at March 31, 2009. Over the past three fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 31 days and 42 days. We do not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors will materially impact our net sales, due to the fact that we recognize revenue based on sell-through for all our distributors. Sales by Geography Sales by geography for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, (unaudited) Nine Months Ended December 31, (unaudited) 2009 % 2008 % 2009 % 2008 % Americas $ 59,311 23.7 % $ 50,836 26.4 % $ 164,678 24.6 % $ 181,587 24.9 % Europe 60,059 24.0 52,802 27.5 164,062 24.5 203,955 27.9 Asia 130,729 52.3 88,528 46.1 340,969 50.9 344,502 47.2 Total sales $ 250,099 100.0 % $ 192,166 100.0 % $ 669,709 100.0 % $ 730,044 100.0 % Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 78% and 77% of our net sales in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009, respectively, compared to 74% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2008 and 76% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated. Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. 27 Gross Profit Our gross profit was $146.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2009 and $104.8 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008. Our gross profit was $365.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and $432.5 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 58.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 54.5% in the three months ended December 31, 2008. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 54.6% in the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 59.3% in the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The most significant factors affecting our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q were: production levels being below the range of our normal capacity resulting in under absorption of fixed costs; and continual cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing, such as new manufacturing technologies and more efficient manufacturing techniques. Other factors that impacted gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q include: inventory write-downs partially offset by sales of inventory that was previously written down; lower depreciation as a percentage of cost of sales; and fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, proprietary and non-proprietary analog products and Serial EEPROM products resulting in lower overall average selling prices for our products. During the three-month period ended December 31, 2009, we operated at significantly higher levels of capacity utilization compared to the levels in the three-month period ended December 31, 2008. We adjust our capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions. We operated at or above normal capacity levels, which we typically consider to be the range of 90 to 95% of the actual capacity of the installed equipment during fiscal 2007, fiscal 2008 and the first half of fiscal 2009. However, during the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2009, we reduced wafer starts at both Fab 2 and Fab 4 and implemented rotating unpaid time off at both fabrication facilities. The reduction in wafer starts and rotating unpaid time off were implemented to help control inventory levels due to adverse economic conditions in the markets we serve. Reduced levels of production continued into the third quarter of fiscal 2010, however, we increased the production output from our wafer fabs in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2010 to support increasing demand for our products and during the latter part of the third quarter of fiscal 2010, we operated our wafer fabs at close to peak levels. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010, we expect our wafer fabs to operate at high levels with no under-absorption of fixed costs. As a result of reductions in demand and decreased production in our wafer fabs, approximately $1.7 million and $22.3 million was charged to cost of sales in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009, as our production levels for the periods were below the range of normal capacity. In the three-month period ended December 31, 2008, approximately $6.5 million was charged to cost of sales as a result of decreased production levels. In the future, if production levels are below normal capacity, we will charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity. The process technologies utilized impact our gross margins. Fab 2 currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 to 1.0 micron processes. Fab 4 predominantly utilizes our 0.22 to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. All of our production has been on 8-inch wafers for the periods covered by this report. Our overall inventory levels were $112.8 million at December 31, 2009 compared to $131.5 million at March 31, 2009. We had 99 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2009 compared to 134 days at March 31, 2009 and 143 days at December 31, 2008. The reduction of our inventory levels was a result of our efforts to manage inventory through this period of adverse global economic conditions and was impacted by net sales levels in the most recent quarters exceeding our initial expectations when entering those periods. Our inventory levels at December 31, 2009 were at the low end of the range we have experienced over the past three years. Our goal is to grow our inventory balances to more normalized levels over time. 28 We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog and interface and memory products and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve. At December 31, 2009, approximately 67% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility, compared to approximately 75% at December 31, 2008. The percentage of our assembly work that is performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry and our internal capacity constraints. Third-party contractors located in Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations. Substantially all of our test requirements were being performed in our Thailand facility as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our Thailand facility provide us with significant cost savings when compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. Research and Development (R&D) R&D expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2009 were $30.3 million, or 12.1% of net sales, compared to $27.0 million, or 14.0% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2008. R&D expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 were $87.5 million, or 13.0% of net sales, compared to $89.9 million, or 12.3% of net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives. R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. R&D expenses increased $3.4 million, or 12.5%, for the three months ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year. R&D expenses decreased $2.3 million, or 2.6%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the dollar increase over the three-month periods were higher salary and bonus costs related to restoring previous reductions in compensation programs due to improving business conditions. The primary reasons for the dollar decrease in R&D costs over the nine-month periods were cost-cutting actions that began in the second half of fiscal 2009, including broad-based reductions in salary and other compensation levels, lower travel costs, and reductions in other variable expenses, offset by higher salary and bonus costs in the three months ended December 31, 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2009 were $43.1 million, or 17.3% of net sales, compared to $36.8 million, or 19.2% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 were $120.5 million, or 18.0% of net sales, compared to $127.9 million, or 17.5% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary and other expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force and FAEs who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. 29 Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $6.3 million, or 17.0%, for the three months ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $7.4 million, or 5.8%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the dollar increase over the three-month periods were higher salary and bonus costs related to restoring previous reductions in compensation programs due to improving business conditions. The primary reasons for the dollar decrease in selling, general and administrative costs over the nine-month periods were cost-cutting actions that began in the second half of fiscal 2009, including broad-based reductions in salary and other compensation levels, lower travel costs, and reductions in other variable expenses, offset by higher salary and bonus costs in the three months ended December 31, 2009. Special Charges During the June 2009 quarter, we agreed to the terms of a patent license with an unrelated third-party and signed an agreement on July 9, 2009. The patent license settled alleged infringement claims. The total payment made to the third-party in July 2009 was $1.4 million, $1.2 million of which was expensed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and the remaining $0.2 million was recorded as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the remaining life of the patent. On October 15, 2008, we announced the acquisition of Hampshire Company, a leader in the large format touch screen controller market. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.5 million in-process research and development charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. Other Income (Expense) Interest income in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 decreased to $4.9 million from $7.4 million in the three-month period ended December 31, 2008. Interest income in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 decreased to $12.7 million from $27.8 million in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. The primary reason for the reductions in interest income was lower interest rates applying to our invested cash balances in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 compared to the prior year periods. Interest expense related to our 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009 was $7.8 million and $23.3 million, respectively, compared to $7.1 million and $21.6 million, respectively, in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2008. Other income, net in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 was $0.1 million compared to other expense, net of $20.4 million in the three-month period ended December 31, 2008. Other income, net in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 was $7.9 million compared to other expense, net of $16.0 million in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. The increase in other income, net in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year primarily relates to a $19.3 million loss on trading securities during the three months ended December 31, 2008 as a result of market fluctuations in our trading securities and put options as described in Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. The increase in other income, net in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 over the same period last year primarily relates to a $7.5 million gain on trading securities during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 as a result of market fluctuations in the value of our trading securities and put options and sales of trading securities as described in Note 4 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes reflects tax on foreign earnings and federal and state tax on U.S. earnings. We had an effective tax rate of 0.7% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and 8.2% for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. We had an effective tax rate benefit of 254.7% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2008 and 9.4% for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 were higher than our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008, and lower than the statutory rates in the U.S. for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, primarily due to IRS audit settlements in these periods and a favorable clarification of tax regulations in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008. Additionally, our effective tax rate is lower than statutory rates in the U.S. due to our mix of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates. See Note 10 to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information on our tax items. 30 Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the IRS for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than any final assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future. Any expiration of our tax holidays is expected to have a minimal impact on our overall tax expense due to other tax holidays and an increase in income in other taxing jurisdictions with lower statutory rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $1,499.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments at December 31, 2009, an increase of $58.8 million from the March 31, 2009 balance. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to cash generated from operating activities being offset by dividend payments in the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Net cash provided from operating activities was $344.0 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to $264.6 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008. The increase in cash flow from operations in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 compared to the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to sales of trading securities, which provided approximately $87.0 million of operating cash flow in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009, compared to sales and purchases of trading securities which used $79.3 million of operating cash flow in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2008, offset by the decline in net income from $233.6 million to $141.3 million. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, net cash used in investing activities was $263.1 million. During the nine months ended December 31, 2008, net cash used in investing activities was $89.3 million. The increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to changes in our net purchases, sales and maturities of short-term and long-term investments, offset by lower capital expenditures in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. Net cash used in financing activities was $166.0 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $271.8 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Proceeds from the exercise of stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plans were $18.6 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and $26.5 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We paid cash dividends to our stockholders of $186.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and $184.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We did not repurchase any of our shares of common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2009. We purchased 4.0 million shares of our common stock for $123.9 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Excess tax benefits from share-based payment arrangements were $2.1 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and $10.5 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures in the nine months ended December 31, 2009 were $28.4 million compared to $91.8 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Capital expenditures are primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We currently intend to spend approximately $60 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase, capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. 31 We expect to finance capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At December 31, 2009, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. On December 11, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 10.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2009, we had repurchased 7.5 million shares under this 10.0 million share authorization for a total of $234.7 million. There is no expiration date associated with this program. The timing and amount of future repurchases will depend upon market conditions, interest rates, and corporate considerations. As of December 31, 2009, we held approximately 34.6 million shares as treasury shares. On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. A quarterly dividend of $0.34 per share was paid on December 2, 2009 in the aggregate amount of $62.5 million. A quarterly dividend of $0.341 per share was declared on February 3, 2010 and will be paid on March 4, 2010 to stockholders of record as of February 18, 2010. We expect the aggregate March 2010 cash dividend to be approximately $62.9 million. Our Board of Directors is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. Contractual Obligations There have not been any material changes in our contractual obligations from what we disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2009, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Business Combinations. On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance for business combinations as issued by the FASB. The new accounting guidance establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, as well as the goodwill acquired. Significant changes from previous guidance resulting from this new guidance include the expansion of the definitions of a "business" and a "business combination." For all business combinations (whether partial, full or step acquisitions), 32 the acquirer will record 100% of all assets and liabilities of the acquired business, including goodwill, generally at their fair values; contingent consideration will be recognized at its fair value on the acquisition date and; for certain arrangements, changes in fair value will be recognized in earnings until settlement; and acquisition-related transaction and restructuring costs will be expensed rather than treated as part of the cost of the acquisition. The new accounting guidance also establishes disclosure requirements to enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. Because the majority of the provisions of the new accounting guidance are applicable to future transactions, the adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination as issued by the FASB. The new guidance amends the provisions previously issued by the FASB related to the initial recognition and measurement, subsequent measurement and accounting and disclosures for assets and liabilities arising from contingencies in business combinations. The new guidance eliminates the distinction between contractual and non-contractual contingencies, including the initial recognition and measurement. The adoption of this accounting guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Transfers of Financial Assets. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance that changes the information a reporting entity provides in its financial statements about the transfer of financial assets and continuing interests held in transferred financial assets. The standard amends previous accounting guidance by removing the concept of qualified special purpose entities. This accounting standard is effective for us for transfers occurring on or after April 1, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of this accounting standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Variable Interest Entities. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance to change financial reporting by enterprises involved with variable interest entities (VIEs). The standard replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining which enterprise has a controlling financial interest in a VIE with an approach focused on identifying which enterprise has the power to direct the activities of a VIE and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive the entity's residual returns. This accounting standard is effective for us beginning April 1, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of this accounting standard to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Multiple Element Arrangements. In September 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to the revenue recognition of multiple element arrangements. The new guidance states that if vendor specific objective evidence or third party evidence for deliverables in an arrangement cannot be determined, companies will be required to develop a best estimate of the selling price to separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. This guidance is effective for us beginning April 1, 2011, but may be early adopted if we so choose. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements. Certain Revenue Arrangements that include Software Elements. In September 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to certain revenue arrangements that include software elements. Previously, companies that sold tangible products with "more than incidental" software were required to apply software revenue recognition guidance. This guidance often delayed revenue recognition for the delivery of the tangible product. Under the new guidance, tangible products that have software components that are "essential to the functionality" of the tangible product will be excluded from the software revenue recognition guidance. The new guidance includes factors to help companies determine what is "essential to the functionality." Software-enabled products will now be subject to other revenue guidance including that for multiple deliverable arrangements issued by the FASB in September 2009. This guidance is effective for us beginning April 1, 2011, but may be early adopted if we so choose. We are currently evaluating the impact of this accounting guidance on our consolidated financial statements. 33