Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2019, and our financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes. Highlights from the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared with the third quarter of fiscal year 2019 included: Commercial cloud revenue increased 39% to $13.3 billion. Office Commercial revenue increased 13%, driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 25%. Office Consumer revenue increased 15%, with continued growth in Office 365 Consumer subscribers to 39.6 million. LinkedIn revenue increased 21%. Dynamics revenue increased 17%, driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 47%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 30%, driven by Azure growth of 59%. Enterprise Services revenue increased 6%. Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (Windows OEM) revenue was relatively unchanged. Windows Commercial revenue increased 17%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 1%. Xbox content and services revenue increased 2%. Surface revenue increased 1%. 31 PART I Item 2 Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies reduced reported revenue and expenses from our international operations in the first, second, and third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a novel strain of the coronavirus (COVID-19) to be a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic is having widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Federal and state governments have implemented measures in an effort to contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations on public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes, and closure of non-essential businesses. To protect the health and well-being of our employees, suppliers, and customers, we have made substantial modifications to employee travel policies, implemented retail store and office closures as employees are advised to work from home, and cancelled or shifted our conferences and other marketing events to virtual-only through fiscal year 2021. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our business operations, including our employees, customers, partners, and communities, and there is substantial uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. In the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, COVID-19 had minimal net impact on our revenue. In the Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments, cloud usage increased, particularly in Microsoft 365 including Teams, Azure, Windows Virtual Desktop, advanced security solutions, and Power Platform, as customers shifted to work and learn from home. In the final weeks of the quarter, there was a slowdown in transactional licensing, particularly in small and medium businesses, and a reduction in advertising spend in LinkedIn. In the More Personal Computing segment, Windows OEM and Surface benefited from increased demand to support remote work and learn scenarios, offset in part by supply chain constraints in China that improved late in the quarter. Gaming benefited from increased engagement following stay-at-home guidelines. Search was negatively impacted by reductions in advertising spend, particularly in the industries most impacted by COVID-19. The effects of COVID-19 may not be fully reflected in our financial results until future periods. 32 PART I Item 2 The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the pandemic; and the impact on economic activity including the possibility of recession or financial market instability. These factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending on technology as well as customers' ability to pay for our products and services on an ongoing basis. This uncertainty also affects managements accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result in greater variability in a variety of areas that depend on these estimates and assumptions, including investments, receivables, and forward-looking guidance. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks . Seasonality Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the second and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Second quarter revenue is driven by corporate year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers, and fourth quarter revenue is driven by the volume of multi-year on-premises contracts executed during the period. Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 16 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). Metrics We use metrics in assessing the performance of our business and to make informed decisions regarding the allocation of resources. We disclose metrics to enable investors to evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution of our products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based on how customers use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). Financial metrics are calculated based on GAAP results and growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last fiscal year. Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise Services, and Dynamics. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the overall health of our commercial business and include leading indicators of future performance. Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods Commercial cloud revenue Revenue from our commercial cloud business, which includes Office 365 Commercial, Azure, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties Commercial cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our commercial cloud business 33 PART I Item 2 Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The metrics reflect our cloud and on-premises product strategies and trends. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Commercial products and cloud services, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs) Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Consumer, including Office 365 subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises Office 365 Commercial seat growth The number of Office 365 Commercial seats at end of period where seats are paid users covered by an Office 365 Commercial subscription Office 365 Consumer subscribers The number of Office 365 Consumer subscribers at end of period Dynamics products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, a set of cloud-based applications across ERP and CRM, Dynamics ERP on-premises, and Dynamics CRM on-premises LinkedIn revenue growth Revenue from LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions Server products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Server products and cloud services, including Azure; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs; and GitHub Enterprise Services revenue growth Revenue from Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services More Personal Computing Metrics related to our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance of key lines of business within this segment. These metrics provide strategic product insights which allow us to assess the performance across our commercial and consumer businesses. As we have diversity of target audiences and sales motions within the Windows business, we monitor metrics that are reflective of those varying motions. Windows OEM Pro revenue growth Revenue from sales of Windows Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel, which primarily addresses demand in the commercial market Windows OEM non-Pro revenue growth Revenue from sales of Windows non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel, which primarily addresses demand in the consumer market Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings Surface revenue Revenue from Surface devices and accessories Xbox content and services revenue growth Revenue from Xbox content and services, comprising Xbox Live transactions, subscriptions, cloud services, and advertising (Xbox Live), video games, and third-party video game royalties Search advertising revenue, excluding TAC, growth Revenue from search advertising excluding traffic acquisition costs (TAC) paid to Bing Ads network publishers 34 PART I Item 2 SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue $ 35,021 $ 30,571 15% $ 104,982 $ 92,126 14% Gross margin 24,046 20,401 18% 71,243 59,628 19% Operating income 12,975 10,341 25% 39,552 30,554 29% Net income 10,752 8,809 22% 33,079 26,053 27% Diluted earnings per share 1.40 1.14 23% 4.30 3.36 28% Non-GAAP net income 10,752 8,809 22% 33,079 26,210 26% Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share 1.40 1.14 23% 4.30 3.38 27% Non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for the nine months ended March 31, 2019 exclude the net charge related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( TCJA ) of $157 million . Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for a reconciliation of our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Revenue increased $4.5 billion or 15%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven by server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven by Windows. Gross margin increased $3.6 billion or 18%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Gross margin percentage increased, driven by sales mix shift to higher margin businesses. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage increased 4 points to 67%, primarily driven by improvement in Azure. Operating income increased $2.6 billion or 25%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $805 million or 8%, driven by growth in commercial cloud. Research and development expenses increased $571 million or 13%, driven by investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. Sales and marketing expenses increased $346 million or 8%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and commercial sales, as well as an increase in bad debt expense. General and administrative expenses increased $94 million or 8%. Gross margin and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2% and 3%, respectively. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 Revenue increased $12.9 billion or 14%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, driven by server products and cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by Office and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased, driven by Windows and Search advertising, offset in part by a decrease in Gaming. Gross margin increased $11.6 billion or 19%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Gross margin percentage increased, driven by sales mix shift to higher margin businesses. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage increased 5 points to 67%, primarily driven by improvement in Azure. Operating income increased $9.0 billion or 29%, driven by growth across each of our segments. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $1.2 billion or 4%, driven by growth in commercial cloud, offset in part by a decline in Gaming. 35 PART I Item 2 Research and development expenses increased $1.7 billion or 14%, driven by investments in cloud engineering, LinkedIn, and Gaming. Sales and marketing expenses increased $930 million or 7%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and commercial sales. General and administrative expenses were relatively unchanged. Gross margin and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3% and 4%, respectively. Prior year net income and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the net charge related to the TCJA, which resulted in a decrease to net income and diluted EPS of $157 million and $0.02, respectively. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 11,743 $ 10,242 15% $ 34,646 $ 30,113 15% Intelligent Cloud 12,281 9,649 27% 34,995 27,594 27% More Personal Computing 10,997 10,680 3% 35,341 34,419 3% Total $ 35,021 $ 30,571 15% $ 104,982 $ 92,126 14% Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 4,788 $ 3,979 20% $ 14,752 $ 11,875 24% Intelligent Cloud 4,560 3,208 42% 12,980 9,418 38% More Personal Computing 3,627 3,154 15% 11,820 9,261 28% Total $ 12,975 $ 10,341 25% $ 39,552 $ 30,554 29% Reportable Segments Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $1.5 billion or 15%. Office Commercial revenue increased $878 million or 13%, driven by Office 365 Commercial, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to cloud offerings and a slowdown in transactional licensing, primarily in small and medium businesses. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 25%, due to seat growth of 20% and higher revenue per user. Office Consumer revenue increased $160 million or 15%, driven by Office 365 subscription revenue and strength in Office 2019, primarily in Japan. LinkedIn revenue increased $354 million or 21%, driven by growth across all businesses. Dynamics revenue increased 17%, driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 47%. Operating income increased $809 million or 20%. Gross margin increased $1.3 billion or 16%, driven by growth in Office Commercial and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage increased, due to gross margin percentage improvement in Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn, offset in part by an increased mix of cloud offerings. Operating expenses increased $473 million or 12%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and cloud engineering. Gross margin and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2% and 3%, respectively. 36 PART I Item 2 Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $2.6 billion or 27%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $2.4 billion or 30%, driven by Azure. Azure revenue grew 59%, due to higher infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services and per user-based services. Server products revenue increased 11%, due to hybrid and premium solutions, as well as demand related to Windows Server 2008 end of support. Enterprise Services revenue increased $91 million or 6%, driven by growth in Premier Support Services. Operating income increased $1.4 billion or 42%. Gross margin increased $2.0 billion or 30%, driven by growth in server products and cloud services revenue and cloud services scale and efficiencies. Gross margin percentage increased, due to gross margin percentage improvement in Azure, offset in part by an increased mix of cloud offerings. Operating expenses increased $625 million or 19%, driven by investments in Azure. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 2%, and 4%, respectively. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $317 million or 3%. Windows revenue increased $276 million or 6%, driven by growth in Windows Commercial. Windows Commercial revenue increased 17%, primarily driven by increased demand for Microsoft 365. Windows OEM revenue was relatively unchanged. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 5%, driven by continued Windows 10 momentum, with demand from remote work and learn scenarios, offset in part by supply chain constraints in China. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue decreased 10%, driven by continued pressure in the entry-level category and supply chain constraints in China. Search advertising revenue increased $75 million or 4%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 1%, with reduced advertising spend, particularly in the industries most impacted by COVID-19. Surface revenue increased $11 million or 1%, driven by increased demand from remote work and learn scenarios, offset in part by supply chain constraints in China. Gaming revenue decreased $14 million or 1%. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 20%, primarily due to a decrease in price of consoles sold. Xbox content and services revenue increased $33 million or 2%, primarily due to increased engagement following stay-at-home guidelines, offset in part by a high prior year comparable primarily from a third-party title. Operating income increased $473 million or 15%. Gross margin increased $386 million or 6%, driven by growth in Windows. Gross margin percentage increased, due to sales mix shift to higher margin businesses. Operating expenses decreased $87 million or 3%, driven by the redeployment of engineering resources. Gross margin and operating income each included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $4.5 billion or 15%. Office Commercial revenue increased $2.7 billion or 14%, driven by Office 365 Commercial, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to cloud offerings. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 26%, due to seat growth and higher revenue per user. Office Consumer revenue increased $401 million or 13%, driven by Office 365 subscription revenue and strength in Office 2019, primarily in Japan. 37 PART I Item 2 LinkedIn revenue increased $1.1 billion or 23%, driven by growth across all businesses. Dynamics revenue increased 14%, driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 43%. Operating income increased $2.9 billion or 24%. Gross margin increased $4.1 billion or 18%, driven by growth in Office Commercial and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage increased, due to gross margin percentage improvement in Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn, offset in part by an increased mix of cloud offerings. Operating expenses increased $1.2 billion or 11%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and cloud engineering. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 2%, and 4%, respectively. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $7.4 billion or 27%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $6.9 billion or 30%, driven by Azure. Azure revenue grew 60%, due to higher infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services and per user-based services. Server products revenue increased 11% , due to hybrid and premium solutions, as well as demand related to Windows Server 2008 and SQL Server 2008 end of support. Enterprise Services revenue increased $277 million or 6% , driven by growth in Premier Support Services. Operating income increased $3.6 billion or 38%. Gross margin increased $5.4 billion or 29%, driven by growth in server products and cloud services revenue and cloud services scale and efficiencies. Gross margin percentage increased, due to gross margin percentage improvement in Azure, offset in part by an increased mix of cloud offerings. Operating expenses increased $1.8 billion or 19%, driven by investments in Azure. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 2%, and 4%, respectively. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $922 million or 3%. Windows revenue increased $1.6 billion or 11%, driven by growth in Windows Commercial and Windows OEM. Windows Commercial revenue increased 22%, driven by increased demand for Microsoft 365. Windows OEM revenue increased 9%, ahead of PC market growth. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 16%, driven by continued momentum in advance of Windows 7 end of support and healthy Windows 10 demand. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 4%, driven by continued pressure in the entry-level category. Search advertising revenue increased $465 million or 8%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 6%, driven by higher revenue per search. Surface revenue increased $83 million or 2%, driven by commercial growth, offset in part by a decline in consumer. Gaming revenue decreased $1.1 billion or 12%, driven by a decrease in Xbox hardware of 38%, primarily due to a decrease in volume and price of consoles sold. Xbox content and services revenue decreased $269 million or 4%, against a high prior year comparable primarily from a third-party title, offset in part by strength in Minecraft and growth in subscriptions. Operating income increased $2.6 billion or 28%, including an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Gross margin increased $2.1 billion or 12%, driven by growth in Windows. Gross margin percentage increased, due to sales mix shift to higher margin businesses. Operating expenses decreased $421 million or 5%, driven by the redeployment of engineering resources, offset in part by investments in Gaming. 38 PART I Item 2 OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2020 2019 2020 2019 Research and development $ 4,887 $ 4,316 13% $ 14,055 $ 12,363 14% As a percent of revenue 14% 14% 0ppt 13% 13% 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Research and development expenses increased $571 million or 13%, driven by investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 Research and development expenses increased $1.7 billion or 14%, driven by investments in cloud engineering, LinkedIn, and Gaming. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2020 2019 2020 2019 Sales and marketing $ 4,911 $ 4,565 8% $ 14,181 $ 13,251 7% As a percent of revenue 14% 15% (1)ppt 14% 14% 0ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Sales and marketing expenses increased $346 million or 8%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and commercial sales, as well as an increase in bad debt expense. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 Sales and marketing expenses increased $930 million or 7%, driven by investments in LinkedIn and commercial sales. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2020 2019 2020 2019 General and administrative $ 1,273 $ 1,179 8% $ 3,455 $ 3,460 0% As a percent of revenue 4% 4% 0ppt 3% 4% (1)ppt 39 PART I Item 2 General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 General and administrative expenses increased $94 million or 8%. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 General and administrative expenses were relatively unchanged. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended March 31, Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Interest and dividends income $ 673 $ 668 $ 2,085 $ 2,053 Interest expense (614 ) (671 ) (1,905 ) (2,017 ) Net recognized gains (losses) on investments (101 ) 44 4 381 Net gains on derivatives 49 51 136 89 Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (136 ) 37 (218 ) (32 ) Other, net (3 ) 16 (40 ) 64 Total $ (132 ) $ 145 $ 62 $ 538 We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Interest and dividends income increased due to higher average portfolio balances on fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased due to capitalization of interest expense and a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities, offset in part by higher finance lease expense. Net recognized losses on investments include other-than-temporary impairments and losses on equity securities in the current period as compared to net recognized gains on investments in the prior period. Nine Months Ended March 31, 2020 Compared with Nine Months Ended March 31, 2019 Interest and dividends income increased due to higher average portfolio balances on fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased due to capitalization of interest expense and a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities , offset in part by higher finance lease expense . Net recognized gains on investments decreased due to lower gains and higher other-than-temporary impairments on equity investments, offset in part by gains on fixed income securities in the current period compared to losses in the prior period. Net gains on derivatives increased due to higher gains on foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives. INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Our effective tax rate was 16% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, and 16% for the nine months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. The effective tax rate was relatively unchanged for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the prior year, primarily due to changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries, offset in part by tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation. The effective tax rate was relatively unchanged for the nine months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the prior year, primarily due to changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries, offset in part by the adjustment of the provisional net charge related to the TCJA in the second quarter of fiscal year 2019. 40 PART I Item 2 Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate for the three and nine months ended March 31, 2020, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland and Puerto Rico, and tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation. Uncertain Tax Positions We settled a portion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 in fiscal year 2011. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report related to unresolved issues for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. We also settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 in fiscal year 2016, and a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2010 to 2013 in fiscal year 2018. We remain under audit for tax years 2004 to 2013. We expect the IRS to begin an examination of tax years 2014 to 2017 within the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2020, the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate to transfer pricing, which could have a material impact in our consolidated financial statements when the matters are resolved. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2019, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolution of each of these audits is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Non-GAAP net income and diluted earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude a net charge related to the TCJA. We believe these non-GAAP measures aid investors by providing additional insight into our operational performance and help clarify trends affecting our business. For comparability of reporting, management considers non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP financial results in evaluating business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures presented should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results: (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2020 2019 2020 2019 Net income $ 10,752 $ 8,809 22% $ 33,079 $ 26,053 27% Net charge related to the TCJA 0 0 * 0 157 * Non-GAAP net income $ 10,752 $ 8,809 22% $ 33,079 $ 26,210 26% Diluted earnings per share $ 1.40 $ 1.14 23% $ 4.30 $ 3.36 28% Net charge related to the TCJA 0 0 * 0 0.02 * Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share $ 1.40 $ 1.14 23% $ 4.30 $ 3.38 27% * Not meaningful. 41 PART I Item 2 FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $137.6 billion and $133.8 billion as of March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2019. Equity investments were $2.7 billion and $2.6 billion as of March 31, 2020 and June 30, 2019, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Cash from operations increased $5.9 billion to $42.0 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2020, mainly due to an increase in cash from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash used to pay income taxes, suppliers, and employees. Cash used in financing increased $5.6 billion to $33.8 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2020, mainly due to a $2.5 billion increase in repayments of debt, a $2.3 billion increase in common stock repurchases, and a $982 million increase in dividends paid. Cash used in investing decreased $755 million to $7.8 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2020, mainly due to a $1.2 billion decrease in cash used for acquisition of companies, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible and other assets, offset in part by an $823 million increase in additions to property and equipment. Debt We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Our last debt issuance occurred in fiscal year 2017. Refer to Note 9 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 42 PART I Item 2 Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include Software Assurance (SA) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of March 31, 2020: (In millions) Three Months Ending June 30, 2020 $ 12,528 September 30, 2020 7,017 December 31, 2020 5,252 March 31, 2021 2,215 Thereafter 3,385 Total $ 30,397 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Share Repurchases For the nine months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, we repurchased 98 million shares and 117 million shares of our common stock for $14.6 billion and $12.6 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 14 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Dividends Refer to Note 14 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. Additionally, we have agreed to cover damages resulting from breaches of certain security and privacy commitments in our cloud business. In evaluating estimated losses on these obligations, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact in our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. 43 PART I Item 2 Liquidity As a result of the TCJA, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. We have paid transition tax of $3.2 billion, which included $1.2 billion during the nine months ended March 31, 2020. The remaining transition tax of $15.2 billion is payable over the next six years with a final payment in fiscal year 2026. During the nine months ended March 31, 2020, we also paid $3.7 billion related to the transfer of intangible properties that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019. We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the TCJA, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies, as well as uncertainty in the current economic environment due to the recent outbreak of COVID-19. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP. Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers. 44 PART I Item 2 Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented. Impairment of Investment Securities We review debt investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost. We also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a quarterly basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. 45 PART I Item 2 Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. 46 PART I Item 3, 4