Managements Discussion and Analysis (Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015, and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q. Microsoft is a technology leader focused on building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for a mobile-first, cloud-first world. We strive to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We develop and market software, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to peoples lives. We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products, by offering an array of services, including cloud-based services to consumers and businesses, by designing, manufacturing, and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services, datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services, and income taxes. In July 2015, we announced a restructuring of our phone business, including the creation of the Windows and Devices Group. This reinforces our strategy to create a vibrant Windows ecosystem with a single set of experiences across our first-party device family and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) offerings. Part of this strategy involves focusing our phone devices on a narrower range of customer categories and differentiating through the combination of hardware and software we are uniquely positioned to offer. Highlights from the first quarter of fiscal year 2016 included: We launched Windows 10 as a service that unites experiences across a wide range of devices with innovations that increase productivity and flexibility; Windows 10 is now running on 110 million devices around the world. Our commercial cloud, which primarily comprises Office 365 Commercial, Microsoft Azure, and Dynamics CRM Online, reached an annualized run rate* exceeding $8.2 billion. Office 365 Consumer subscribers increased to 18.2 million, with approximately 3 million subscribers added in the quarter. Dynamics CRM Online enterprise installed base more than tripled year-over-year. Microsoft Azure revenue and compute usage more than doubled year-over-year, and we now have over 20,000 Enterprise Mobility customers. Xbox Live monthly active users grew 28% to 39 million. 31 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 * Annualized run rate was calculated by multiplying September 2015 revenue by twelve months. Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services is dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in devices and infrastructure will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies throughout fiscal year 2015 negatively impacted reported revenue and reduced reported expenses from our international operations in the current period as compared to the prior year. See a discussion of these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). Seasonality Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers. Unearned Revenue Quarterly and annual revenue is impacted by the deferral of revenue, including: Revenue deferred on Windows 10 licenses to reflect ratable recognition over the life of the device. Revenue deferred on bundled products and services (Bundled Offerings). If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Reportable Segments The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Segment information appearing in Note 18 Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements is also presented on this basis. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. 32 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 In June 2015, we announced a change in organizational structure as part of our transformation in the mobile-first, cloud-first world. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Companys chief operating decision maker requested changes in the information that he regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance. As a result, beginning in fiscal year 2016, we report our financial performance based on our new segments; Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing, and analyze operating income as the measure of segment profitability. We have recast certain previously reported amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor segment performance. Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: Office Commercial, including volume licensing and subscriptions to Office 365 Commercial for products and services such as Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs). Office Consumer, including Office sold through retail or through an Office 365 Consumer subscription, and Office Consumer Services, including Outlook.com, OneDrive, and consumer Skype services. Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics ERP products, Dynamics CRM on-premises, and Dynamics CRM Online (Microsoft Dynamics). Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and services that can power modern business. This segment primarily comprises: Server products and services, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs, as well as Microsoft Azure. Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services geared towards harmonizing the interests of end users, developers, and information technology professionals across screens of all sizes. This segment primarily comprises: Windows, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows OEM) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system, volume licensing of the Windows operating system (Windows VL), patent licensing, Windows Embedded, MSN display advertising, and Windows Phone licensing. Devices, including phones, Surface, and Microsoft PC accessories. Gaming, including Xbox hardware; Xbox Live, comprising transactions, subscriptions, and advertising; video games; and third-party video game royalties. Search advertising. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2015 2014 Revenue $ 20,379 $ 23,201 (12)% Gross margin $ 13,172 $ 14,928 (12)% Operating income $ 5,793 $ 5,844 (1)% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.57 $ 0.54 6% 33 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Revenue decreased $2.8 billion or 12%, primarily due to lower revenue from More Personal Computing and the impact of a net $1.3 billion revenue deferral related to Windows 10, offset in part by revenue growth in Intelligent Cloud. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. More Personal Computing revenue decreased, primarily due to lower revenue from phones, reflecting a change in strategy for the phone business. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and services, including Microsoft Azure. Operating income decreased slightly, primarily due to lower gross margin, offset in part by a reduction in impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses, as well as lower sales and marketing expenses. Gross margin decreased $1.8 billion or 12%, driven by Windows 10 net revenue deferrals, as well as lower gross margin from More Personal Computing and Productivity and Business Processes, offset in part by higher gross margin from Intelligent Cloud. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue decreased $1.1 billion or 13%, mainly due to lower phones sales. Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses were $1.1 billion in the prior year, comprised mainly of restructuring charges associated with our Phone Hardware Integration Plan. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $395 million or 11%, mainly due to a decline in phones advertising and marketing program costs, and a reduction in headcount-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Current year diluted earnings per share (EPS) was negatively impacted by Windows 10 revenue deferrals, which decreased EPS by $0.10. Prior year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses, which decreased diluted EPS by $0.11. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2015 2014 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 6,306 $ 6,490 (3)% Intelligent Cloud 5,892 5,475 8% More Personal Computing 9,381 11,236 (17)% Corporate and Other (1,200 ) 0 * Total revenue $ 20,379 $ 23,201 (12)% Operating income (loss) Productivity and Business Processes $ 3,105 $ 3,338 (7)% Intelligent Cloud 2,400 2,106 14% More Personal Computing 1,562 1,619 (4)% Corporate and Other (1,274 ) (1,219 ) * Total operating income (loss) $ 5,793 $ 5,844 (1)% * Not meaningful Reportable Segments Productivity and Business Processes Productivity and Business Processes revenue decreased $184 million or 3%, mainly due to an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Office Consumer revenue decreased $105 million or 13%, driven by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 9% and a decline in the consumer PC market, offset in part by revenue growth from Office 365 Consumer, mainly due to recurring subscriptions. 34 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Office Commercial revenue decreased $98 million or 2%, driven by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%, as well as lower transactional license volume, reflecting a decline in the business PC market. The decrease was offset in part by revenue growth from Office 365 Commercial, mainly due to an increase in subscribers and higher premium mix. Microsoft Dynamics revenue increased 3%, mainly due to higher revenue from Dynamics CRM Online, driven by seat growth. Productivity and Business Processes operating income decreased $233 million or 7%, driven by lower gross margin, offset in part by a reduction in operating expenses. Gross margin decreased $363 million or 6%, primarily due to the decline in Office revenue, as well as higher cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Cost of revenue increased $179 million or 21%, primarily due to the increasing cloud mix of revenue. Operating expenses decreased $130 million or 6%, driven by lower sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $89 million or 7%, mainly due to a reduction in headcount-related expenses. Intelligent Cloud Intelligent Cloud revenue increased $417 million or 8%, mainly due to higher server products and services revenue, as well as higher Enterprise Services revenue. Intelligent Cloud revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Our server products and services revenue grew $271 million or 6%, driven by higher revenue from premium versions of Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Server, and System Center, and 121% revenue growth from Microsoft Azure. Enterprise Services revenue grew $116 million or 9%, mainly due to growth in Premier Support Services. Intelligent Cloud operating income increased $294 million or 14%, primarily due to higher gross margin, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Gross margin increased $334 million or 8%, driven by revenue growth from our server products and services. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Cost of revenue increased $83 million or 6%, driven by support for cloud services. Operating expenses increased $40 million or 2%. More Personal Computing More Personal Computing revenue decreased $1.9 billion or 17%, mainly due to lower revenue from Devices and Windows, offset in part by higher search advertising revenue. More Personal Computing revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 4%. Devices revenue decreased $1.8 billion or 49%, mainly due to lower revenue from phones, driven by the shift in strategy for the phone business, as well as lower Surface revenue. Phones revenue decreased $1.5 billion or 58%, as we sold 5.8 million Lumia phones and 25.5 million other non-Lumia phones in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, compared with 9.3 million and 42.9 million sold, respectively, in the prior year. Surface revenue decreased $236 million or 26%, primarily driven by the release of Surface Pro 3 in June 2014. Windows revenue decreased $322 million or 7%, mainly due to lower revenue from Windows OEM and patent licensing. Windows OEM revenue decreased $189 million or 6%, driven by declines in the business and consumer PC markets. Windows OEM Pro revenue declined 7%, slightly ahead of the performance of the business PC market. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 4%, outperforming the consumer PC market, driven by a higher mix of premium licenses sold. Patent licensing revenue decreased, due to a decline in units and patent revenue per license, driven by a reduction in the average selling price of smartphones. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased $127 million or 23%, primarily driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume. Gaming revenue increased slightly, as growth in revenue from Xbox Live and video games was offset in part by lower Xbox hardware revenue. Xbox Live revenue increased 17%, driven by both higher volumes of transactions and revenue per transaction. Video games revenue grew 66%, driven by sales of Minecraft. We acquired Mojang AB, the Swedish video game developer of the Minecraft gaming franchise, in November 2014. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 17%, mainly due to lower volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold. More Personal Computing operating income decreased slightly, primarily due to lower gross margin, offset in part by lower operating expenses. Gross margin decreased $564 million or 10%, reflecting lower revenue, primarily as a result of lower phones sales, offset in part by a reduction in cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Cost of revenue decreased $1.3 billion or 22%, driven by lower Devices cost of revenue. 35 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Operating expenses decreased $507 million or 13%, mainly due to lower sales and marketing expenses and lower research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $308 million or 18%, driven by a decline in phones advertising and marketing program costs. Research and development expenses decreased $158 million or 9%, mainly due to lower headcount-related expenses, as well as capitalization of certain software development costs. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other revenue primarily comprises certain revenue deferrals, including those related to Windows 10 and Bundled Offerings, as well as revenue from non-Microsoft products sold in our retail stores. Corporate and Other operating income (loss) primarily comprises revenue deferrals and corporate-level activity not specifically allocated to a segment, including impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses. Corporate and Other revenue decreased $1.2 billion, primarily due to the shift to ratable revenue recognition of Windows 10 in the current fiscal year. During the three months ended September 30, 2015, we deferred a net $1.3 billion of revenue related to Windows 10. During the three months ended September 30, 2014, we deferred a net $29 million of revenue related to Bundled Offerings. Corporate and Other operating loss increased $55 million, primarily due to decreased revenue, offset in part by a $1.1 billion decline in impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses, reflecting prior year costs associated with the acquisition of Nokia Corporations Devices and Services business (NDS). OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2015 2014 Research and development $ 2,962 $ 3,065 (3)% As a percent of revenue 15% 13% 2ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code. Research and development expenses decreased $103 million or 3%, driven by lower phones expenses and capitalization of certain software development costs associated with Office 2016 and Windows 10, partially offset by increased investment in Intelligent Cloud and Surface. Research and development expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of approximately 2%. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2015 2014 Sales and marketing $ 3,333 $ 3,728 (11)% As a percent of revenue 16% 16% 0ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. 36 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Sales and marketing expenses decreased $395 million or 11%, primarily due to a decline in phones advertising and marketing program costs, and a reduction in headcount-related expenses, partially offset by Windows 10 marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2015 2014 General and administrative $ 1,084 $ 1,151 (6)% As a percent of revenue 5% 5% 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses decreased $67 million or 6%, mainly due to lower headcount-related expenses. General and administrative expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of approximately 3%. IMPAIRMENT, INTEGRATION, AND RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses include costs associated with the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to our phone hardware business, employee severance expenses and costs associated with the consolidation of facilities and manufacturing operations related to restructuring activities, and systems consolidation and other business integration expenses associated with our acquisition of NDS. Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses were $1.1 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2014, comprised mainly of restructuring charges of $1.0 billion, including employee severance expenses and the write-down of certain assets in connection with our Phone Hardware Integration Plan. See Note 13 Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Financial Statements for discussion of our restructuring plans. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Dividends and interest income $ 199 $ 225 Interest expense (249 ) (161 ) Net recognized gains on investments 2 79 Net losses on derivatives (103 ) (134 ) Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (36 ) 78 Other (93 ) (35 ) Total $ (280 ) $ 52 We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities and gains (losses) on certain balance sheet amounts from foreign exchange rate changes. Dividends and interest income decreased due to lower yields offset in part by higher portfolio balances. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity and fixed income securities and higher other-than-temporary impairments. Net losses on derivatives decreased due to higher gains on equity derivatives and lower losses on commodity and interest rate derivatives, offset in part by higher losses on foreign exchange contracts. Other during the current period reflects a loss on a divestiture and recognized losses from certain joint ventures. 37 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 INCOME TAXES Our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 was 16% and 23%, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. This quarters effective tax rate was lower than the prior years first quarter effective tax rate, primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of our business and lower non-deductible operating losses. On July 27, 2015, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. A final decision has yet to be issued by the U.S. Tax Court due to other outstanding procedural issues. At this time, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has not withdrawn the requirement from its regulations to include stock-based compensation. The I.R.S. has the right to appeal the U.S. Tax Court decision. We concluded that no adjustment to our consolidated financial statements is appropriate at this time due to the uncertainties with respect to the ultimate resolution of this case. Tax contingencies and other income tax liabilities were $11.9 billion and $12.1 billion as of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015, respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities. This decrease relates primarily to a partial settlement of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2007 to 2009. While we settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, and settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 during the current quarter, we remain under audit for those years. In February 2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of September 30, 2015, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2015. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2015, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $99.4 billion as of September 30, 2015, compared with $96.5 billion as of June 30, 2015. Equity and other investments were $11.4 billion as of September 30, 2015 compared with $12.1 billion as of June 30, 2015. Our short-term investments are primarily to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at September 30, 2015, $96.0 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was $2.1 billion. As of September 30, 2015, approximately 80% of the cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 5% were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, and approximately 5% were invested in U.S. mortgage- and asset-backed securities, all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. 38 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Securities lending We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $154 million as of September 30, 2015. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the three months ended September 30, 2015 were $201 million and $761 million, respectively. Intra-year variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. government securities. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, common and preferred stock, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, U.S. government and agency securities, and certificates of deposit. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations increased $240 million to $8.6 billion, mainly due to lower operating expenditures, offset in part by a decrease in cash received from customers. Cash used in financing increased $670 million to $3.6 billion, mainly due to a $1.9 billion increase in cash used for common stock repurchases, a $220 million decrease in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and a $168 million increase in dividends paid, offset in part by a $1.8 billion increase in proceeds from issuances of debt, net of repayments. Cash used in investing decreased $2.7 billion to $5.1 billion, mainly due to a $2.6 billion decrease in cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Debt We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. See Note 11 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue at September 30, 2015 was comprised mainly of unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue at September 30, 2015 also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Windows 10 licenses; Xbox Live subscriptions 39 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 and prepaid points; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Office 365 subscriptions; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; Bundled Offerings; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of September 30, 2015: (In millions) Three Months Ending, December 31, 2015 $ 9,336 March 31, 2016 6,831 June 30, 2016 4,180 September 30, 2016 1,256 Thereafter 2,784 Total $ 24,387 Share Repurchases During the three months ended September 30, 2015, we repurchased 89 million shares of our common stock for $4.0 billion under a $40.0 billion share repurchase plan approved by our Board of Directors on September 16, 2013. The share repurchase program became effective on October 1, 2013, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. While the program has no expiration date, we intend to complete it by December 31, 2016. As of September 30, 2015, $17.9 billion remained of our $40.0 billion share repurchase program. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Dividends See Note 16 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years in support of our productivity and platform strategy. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt maturities, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. 40 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE See Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current products combined with rights to receive unspecified future versions of software products and are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period. Software updates are evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether they meet the definition of an upgrade, which may require revenue to be deferred and recognized when the upgrade is delivered. If it is determined that implied post-contract customer support (PCS) is being provided, revenue from the arrangement is deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. If updates are determined to not meet the definition of an upgrade, revenue is generally recognized as products are shipped or made available. Microsoft enters into arrangements that can include various combinations of software, services, and hardware. Where elements are delivered over different periods of time, and when allowed under U.S. GAAP, revenue is allocated to the respective elements based on their relative selling prices at the inception of the arrangement, and revenue is recognized as each element is delivered. We use a hierarchy to determine the fair value to be used for allocating revenue to elements: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence, and (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP). For software elements, we follow the industry specific software guidance which only allows for the use of VSOE in establishing fair value. Generally, VSOE is the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately or the price established by management for a product that is not yet sold if it is probable that the price will not change before introduction into the marketplace. ESPs are established as best estimates of what the selling prices would be if the deliverables were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. Our process for determining ESPs requires judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. In January 2015, we announced Windows 10 will be free to all qualified existing users of Windows 7 and Windows 8.1. This offer differs from historical offers preceding the launch of new versions of Windows as it is being made available for free to existing users in addition to new customers after the offer announcement. We evaluated the nature and accounting treatment of the Windows 10 offer and determined that it represents a marketing and promotional activity, in part because the offer is being made available for free to existing users. As this is a marketing and promotional activity, revenue recognition of new sales of Windows 8 will continue to be recognized as delivered. 41 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Customers purchasing a Windows 10 license will receive unspecified updates and upgrades over the life of their Windows 10 device at no additional cost. As these updates and upgrades will not be sold on a stand-alone basis, we are unable to establish VSOE. Accordingly, revenue from licenses of Windows 10 will be recognized ratably over the estimated life of the related device, which ranges between two to four years. Impairment of Investment Securities We review investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. As of September 30, 2015, none of our reporting units were considered to be at risk of impairment. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 42 Table of Contents PART I Item 2, 3 Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. The determination of market value and the estimated volume of demand used in the lower of cost or market analysis require significant judgment.