ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview For the past few years, our business strategy has been to commercialize our PicoP scanning technology by enabling OEMs and ODMs to produce end-user products via several go-to-market paths: License our LBS technology, module designs, component designs, and software to OEMs and ODMs to allow them to produce modules to either sell or incorporate in their own products. Design and sell LBS modules directly to OEMs and ODMs to incorporate inside their products; License our LBS technology and sell key components to OEMs and ODMs to create their own scanning modules; and License LBS technology to OEMs and ODMs who developed their own key components. As discussed above, we plan to focus our attention in the near term on licensing our module products and related technology to other companies. In 2019, 47% of our revenue was generated from product shipments to a major technology company, 38% of our revenue was generated from development and support contracts, 13% of our revenue was generated from other product shipments, 1% was generated from performance on contracts for prototype units, and 1% was generated from ongoing per unit royalties. In 2019, one customer accounted for $7.7 million in revenue, representing 86% of our total revenue and a second customer accounted for $1.2 million in revenue, representing 13% of our total revenue. In 2018, 57% of our revenue was generated from the five-year license agreement we signed in May 2018, 42% of our revenue was generated from development contracts, and 1% was generated from performance on contracts for prototype units. In 2018, one customer accounted for $10.0 million in revenue, representing 57% of our total revenue, and a second customer accounted for $7.4 million in revenue, representing 42% of our total revenue. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and expect to incur a significant loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales and licensing activities. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available or that, if available, it will be available on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis. We cannot be certain that we will succeed in commercializing our technology or products. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. These financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Key accounting policies and estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. We base our estimates on historical data, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the consumer display and 3D sensing industries, information provided by our current and prospective customers and strategic partners, information available from other outside sources and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following key accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We generate all of our revenue from contracts with customers. Our contract revenue in a particular period is dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts we have entered into, and the availability of technical resources to perform work on the contracts. We recognize contract revenue either at a point in time, or over time, depending upon the characteristics of the individual contract. If control of the deliverable(s) occur over time, the revenue is recognized in proportion to the transfer of control. If control passes to the customer only upon completion and transfer of the asset, revenue is recognized at the completion of the contract. In contracts that include significant customer acceptance provisions, we recognize revenue only upon acceptance of the deliverable(s). 15 We identify each performance obligation in our development contracts at contract inception. The contracts generally include product development and customization specified by the customer. In contracts with multiple performance obligations, we identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are distinct within the context of the contract. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Performance obligations that are not distinct at contract inception are combined. If we identify multiple distinct performance obligations, we evaluate each performance obligation to determine if there is a stand-alone selling price. In instances where stand-alone selling price is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the stand-alone selling price using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. Our development contracts are primarily fixed-fee contracts. If control of deliverables occurs over time, we recognize revenue on fixed fee contracts on the proportion of total cost expended (under Topic 606, the `input method') to the total cost expected to complete the contract performance obligation. For contracts that require the input method for revenue recognition, the determination of the total cost expected to complete the performance obligations on fixed fee contracts involves significant judgment. We incorporate revisions to hour and cost estimates when the causal facts become known. Inventory valuation Inventory is computed using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. We make judgments and estimates to value our inventory and make adjustments to its carrying value. We review several factors in determining the market value of our inventory including: evaluating the replacement cost of the raw materials, the net realizable value of the finished goods, and the likelihood of obsolescence. If we do not achieve our targeted sales prices, if market conditions for our components or products were to decline, or if we do not achieve our sales forecast, additional reductions in the carrying value of the inventory would be required. Share-based compensation We issue share-based compensation to employees in the form of stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance stock units (PSUs). We account for the share-based awards by recognizing the fair value of share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award, net of estimated forfeitures. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of RSUs is determined by the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The PSUs are valued using a binomial option pricing model using the following inputs: stock price, volatility, and risk-free interest rates. Changes in estimated inputs or using other option valuation methods may result in materially different option values and share-based compensation expense. Leases Significant judgment may be required when determining whether a contract contains a lease, the length of the lease term, the allocation of the consideration in a contract between lease and non-lease components, and the determination of the discount rate included in our office lease. We review the underlying objective of each contract, the terms of the contract, and consider our current and future business conditions when making these judgments. Income taxes Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax position and in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We record a valuation allowance when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Based on our history of losses since inception, the available objective evidence creates sufficient uncertainty regarding the realizability of the deferred tax assets. Our actual tax exposure may differ from our estimates and any such differences may impact income our tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. 16 The key accounting policies described above are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for us to apply judgment or make estimates. There are also areas in which our judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result to our consolidated financial statements. Additional information about our accounting policies, and other disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles, are set forth in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Inflation has not had a material impact on our revenues or income from continuing operations over the three most recent fiscal years. Results of Operations YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018. Product revenue % of % of total total 2019 revenue 2018 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Product revenue $ 5,345 60.2 $ - - $ 5,345 - Product revenue is revenue from sales of our products which are LBS modules and their components. Revenue is recognized when control of the goods passes to the customer. The increase in product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was primarily due to product shipments to a major technology company. Product revenue includes $1.2 million related to the sale of display modules that had been produced for Ragentek and delivered to our distributor in 2017. Our distributor made payments in excess of revenue recognized and Ragentek failed to meet their obligations under the March 2017 order. During 2019, the remaining units held by our distributor were sold to other customers and we reached an agreement with our distributor on the final transaction price of the units shipped to them. As part of the agreement, we have agreed to return $432,000 of the original transaction price to our distributor. Product revenue backlog at December 31, 2019 and 2018 was $6.7 million and zero, respectively. The December 31, 2019 backlog is primarily due to the production orders received from a major technology company under the product supply agreement signed in April 2017. Product revenue backlog at December 31, 2019 does not include the $9.8 million contract liability on our balance sheet. License and royalty revenue % of % of total total 2019 revenue 2018 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) License and royalty revenue $ 99 1.1 $ 10,011 56.9 $ (9,912) (99.0) License and royalty revenue is revenue under license agreements to our PicoP scanning technology. We recognize revenue on upfront license fees at a point in time if the nature of the license granted is a right-to-use license, representing functional intellectual property with significant standalone functionality. If the nature of the license granted is a right-to-access license, representing symbolic intellectual property, which excludes significant standalone functionality, we recognize revenue over the period of time we have ongoing obligations under the agreement. We will recognize revenue from sales-based royalties based on information received by our customers. If such information is not received, we will estimate the number of royalty-bearing products consumed by our customers each quarter. In May 2018, we signed a five-year license agreement with a customer granting them exclusive license to our LBS technology for display-only applications. The license represents functional intellectual property which derives a substantial portion of its utility from its significant standalone functionality. The intellectual property is not expected to substantially change during the license period, nor are we contractually or practically required to use updated intellectual property during the license life. During the year ended December 31, 2018 we completed the performance obligations required by the contract. As a result, we recognized all of the $10.0 million in up-front license payments in license revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018. 17 Contract revenue % of % of total total 2019 revenue 2018 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Contract revenue $ 3,442 38.7 $ 7,596 43.1 $ (4,154) (54.7) Contract revenue includes revenue from performance on development contracts and the sale of prototype units and evaluation kits based on our PicoP scanning module. Our contract revenue in a particular period is dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts we have entered into, and the availability of technical resources to perform work on the contracts. We recognize contract revenue either at a point in time, or over time, depending upon the characteristics of the individual contract. If control of the deliverable(s) occur over time, the revenue is recognized in proportion to the transfer of control. If control passes to the customer only upon completion and transfer of the asset, revenue is recognized at the completion of the contract. In contracts that include significant customer acceptance provisions, we recognize revenue only upon acceptance of the deliverable(s). In April 2017, we signed a contract with a major technology company to develop an LBS display system. As of December 31, 2019, we have received all payments due for development work. We have recognized revenue of $15.0 million in development fees, net of early payment discounts, over time utilizing the input method of total costs expended to total cost expected to complete the performance obligation. The original contract was for $14.0 million in fees for development, but we and the customer agreed to add $1.1 million in additional work to total $15.1 million. The decrease in contract revenue during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was attributed to decreased contract activity. Our contract backlog, including orders for prototype units and evaluation kits, at December 31, 2019 and 2018 was approximately zero and $2.5 million, respectively. Cost of product revenue % of % of product product 2019 revenue 2018 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 6,692 125.2 $ 5,468 - $ 1,224 22.4 Cost of product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect costs of products sold to customers. Direct costs include labor, materials, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, and other costs incurred directly, or charged to us by our contract manufacturers, in the manufacture of these products. Indirect costs include labor, manufacturing overhead, and other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Manufacturing overhead includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing material, facility and other costs, and is allocated to cost of product revenue based on the proportion of indirect labor which supported production activities. Cost of product revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the product mix and volume, the level of manufacturing overhead expense and the volume of direct material purchased. The increase during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was attributed primarily to product shipments to a major technology company. Inventory write-downs of $2.2 million and $4.4 million were recorded in 2019 and 2018, respectively. Cost of contract revenue % of % of contract contract 2019 revenue 2018 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Cost of contract revenue $ 1,872 54.4 $ 5,170 68.1 $ (3,298) (63.8) Cost of contract revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of performing on contracts and producing prototype units and evaluation kits. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in producing prototype units and evaluation kits or performing on a contract. Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our research and development department and building our technical capabilities and capacity. Cost of contract revenue is determined by the level of direct and indirect costs incurred, which can fluctuate substantially from period to period. 18 The decrease in the cost of contract revenue during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was attributed to reduced activity on the April 2017 development contract. Research and development expense 2019 2018 $ change % change (In thousands) Research and development expense $ 18,661 $ 24,666 $ (6,005) (24.3) Research and development expense consists of compensation related costs of employees and contractors engaged in internal research and product development activities, direct material to support development programs, laboratory operations, outsourced development and processing work, and other operating expenses. We assign our research and development resources based on the business opportunity of the available projects, the skill mix of the resources available and the contractual commitments we have made to our customers. We believe that a substantial level of continuing research and development expense will be required to further develop our scanning technology. The decrease in research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was attributable to lower subcontractor costs and personnel-related compensation and benefits expenses offset by higher allocation of resources to internal research and development activities that were previously allocated to a commercial contract and higher direct materials costs related to our LBS module development. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense 2019 2018 $ change % change (In thousands) Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense $ 8,133 $ 9,523 $ (1,390) (14.6) Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense includes compensation and support costs for marketing, sales, management and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including legal and accounting services, consultants and other operating expenses. The decrease in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018 was attributed to lower personnel- related compensation and benefits expenses and lower professional and outside services costs. Income taxes No provision for income taxes has been recorded because we have experienced net losses from inception through December 31, 2019. At December 31, 2019, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $405.8 million for federal income tax reporting purposes. In addition, we have research and development tax credits of $9.0 million. During 2019, $17.1 million federal net operating losses expired unused. A majority of the net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits available to offset future taxable income, if any, will expire in varying amounts from 2020 to 2039, if not previously used. In certain circumstances, as specified in the Internal Revenue Code, a 50% or more ownership change by certain combinations of our shareholders during any three year period would result in a limitation on our ability to use a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. We did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2019 or at December 31, 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred significant losses since inception. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales, and licensing activities. At December 31, 2019, we had $5.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. Based on our current operating plan that includes anticipated future proceeds from the sale of shares under our existing Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations into the second quarter of 2020. We will require additional capital to fund our operating plan past that time. 19 We plan to obtain additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities, product sales and/or licensing activities. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us or, if available, will be available on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis. If adequate capital resources are not available on a timely basis, we intend to consider limiting our operations substantially. This limitation of operations could include reducing investments in our production capacities, research and development projects, staff, operating costs, and capital expenditures. Following our substantial reduction in headcount in February 2020, additional cost savings may be difficult to identify and achieve. Under the April 2017 development contract, we received an upfront payment of $10.0 million in 2017 with a major technology company. The $10.0 million upfront payment will be applied as an upfront payment toward future component purchases from us. Based on current pricing and cost estimates, the amount of per unit upfront payment would be greater than our estimated per unit gross profit and therefore will have a negative impact on our reported cash flow from operating activities until the upfront payment has been earned. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Operating activities Cash used in operating activities totaled $24.0 million during 2019, compared to $22.6 million in 2018. Cash used in operating activities resulted primarily from cash used to fund our net loss, after adjusting for non-cash charges such as share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in cash used in operating activities were primarily attributed to the timing of payments received from customers and payments made to suppliers during the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities totaled $745,000 in 2019, compared to $1.1 million in 2018 and was primarily attributed to purchases of equipment. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities totaled $16.9 million in 2019, compared to $20.5 million in 2018. Principal payments under finance leases was $20,000 in 2019 and $12,000 in 2018. The following is a list of our financing activities during 2019 and 2018. In December 2019, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park granting us the right to sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $16.0 million. Under the terms of the agreement, Lincoln Park made an initial purchase of 1.5 million shares of common stock for $1.0 million at a purchase price of $0.6531 per share. Subject to various limitations and conditions set forth in the agreement, we may sell up to an additional $15.0 million in shares of common stock, from time to time, at our sole discretion to Lincoln Park over a 24-month period beginning December 2019. In consideration for entering into the agreement, we issued 375,000 shares of our common stock, having a value of $277,000, based on the closing stock price at the date of grant, to Lincoln Park as a commitment fee. We incurred an additional $90,000 in issuance costs. In July 2019, we raised $2.0 million before issuance costs of approximately $24,000 through a registered direct offering of 3.0 million shares of our common stock to a private investor. In April 2019, we raised $2.0 million before issuance costs of approximately $34,000 through a registered direct offering of 2.3 million shares of our common stock to a private investor. In April 2019, we entered into a Common Stock Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park granting us the right to sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $11.0 million. Under the terms of the agreement, Lincoln Park made an initial purchase of $1.0 million in shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.98 per share. Subject to various limitations and conditions set forth in the agreement, we may sell up to an additional $10.0 million in shares of common stock, from time to time, at our sole discretion to Lincoln Park over a 24-month period beginning April 2019. In consideration for entering into the agreement, we issued 250,000 shares of our common stock, having a value of $258,000, based on the closing stock price at the date of grant, to Lincoln Park as a commitment fee. We incurred an additional $92,000 in issuance costs. As of December 31, 2019, we have issued 15.7 million shares and raised a total of $11.0 million under this agreement. No further shares are available for sale under this agreement. 20 In January 2019, we raised $1.2 million before issuance costs of approximately $26,000 through a registered direct offering of 2.0 million shares of our common stock to a private investor. In December 2018, we raised $4.2 million before issuance costs of approximately $524,000 through an underwritten public offering of 7.0 million shares of our common stock. In June 2018, we raised $18.0 million before issuance costs of approximately $1.4 million through an underwritten public offering of 14.4 million shares of our common stock. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which OEMs and ODMs introduce products incorporating our PicoP scanning technology and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products. Our ability to raise capital will depend on numerous factors, including the following: Perceptions of our ability to continue as a going concern; Market acceptance of products incorporating our PicoP scanning technology; Changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally; Announcements by other companies in our industry; Changes in business or regulatory conditions; Announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products; The status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; Economic and stock market conditions; The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; Our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements; or Other factors unrelated to our company or industry. If we are successful in establishing OEM or ODM co-development and joint venture arrangements, we expect our partners to fund certain non-recurring engineering costs for technology development and/or for product development. Nevertheless, we expect our capital requirements to remain high as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our PicoP scanning technology. Contractual obligations The following table lists our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2019 (in thousands): Payments Due By Period 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total Contractual Obligations Open purchase obligations * $ 8,235 $ 184 $ 46 $ - $ 8,465 Minimum payments under finance leases 27 9 - - 36 Minimum payments under operating leases 656 1,372 175 - 2,203 Minimum payments under long-term liabilities - - - - - Minimum payments under research, royalty and licensing agreements 12 24 24 - 60 $ 8,930 $ 1,589 $ 245 $ - $ 10,764 * Open purchase obligations represent commitments to purchase inventory, materials, capital equipment, maintenance agreements and other goods used in the normal operation of our business. License and royalty obligations continue through the lives of the underlying patents, which is currently through at least 2024. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2, "Summary of significant accounting policies," in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 21