ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Our business strategy is to commercialize our PicoP scanning technology by enabling OEMs and ODMs to produce end-user products via three go-to-market paths: Design and sell LBS engines directly to OEMs and ODMs to incorporate inside their products; License our LBS technology and sell key components to OEMs and ODMs to create their own scanning engines; and License LBS technology to OEMs and ODMs who developed their own key components. 14 In 2018, 57% of our revenue was generated from the five-year license agreement we signed in May 2018, 42% of our revenue was generated from development contracts, and 1% was generated from performance on contracts for prototype units. In 2018, one customer accounted for $10.0 million in revenue, representing 57% of our total revenue and a second customer accounted for $7.4 million in revenue, representing 42% of our total revenue. In 2017, 67% of our revenue was generated from development contracts, 24% of our revenue was generated from product sales, 5% was generated from performance on contracts for prototype units, and 4% was generated from ongoing per unit royalties. In 2017, one customer accounted for $5.8 million in revenue, representing 60% of our total revenue, and a second customer accounted for $2.3 million in revenue, representing 24% of our total revenue. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and expect to incur a significant loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales and licensing activities. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available or that, if available, it will be available on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis. We cannot be certain that we will succeed in commercializing our technology or products. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. These financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Key accounting policies and estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. We base our estimates on historical data, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the consumer display and 3D sensing industries, information provided by our current and prospective customers and strategic partners, information available from other outside sources and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following key accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue recognition Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We generate all of our revenue from contracts with customers. Our contract revenue in a particular period is dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts we have entered into, and the availability of technical resources to perform work on the contracts. We recognize contract revenue either at a point in time, or over time, depending upon the characteristics of the individual contract. If control of the deliverable(s) occur over time, the revenue is recognized in proportion to the transfer of control. If control passes to the customer only upon completion and transfer of the asset, revenue is recognized at the completion of the contract. In contracts that include significant customer acceptance provisions, we recognize revenue only upon acceptance of the deliverable(s). 15 We identify each performance obligation in our development contracts at contract inception. The contracts generally include product development and customization specified by the customer. In contracts with multiple performance obligations, we identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are distinct within the context of the contract. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Performance obligations that are not distinct at contract inception are combined. If we identify multiple distinct performance obligations, we evaluate each performance obligation to determine if there is a stand-alone selling price. In instances where stand-alone selling price is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the stand-alone selling price using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. Our development contracts are primarily fixed-fee contracts. If control of deliverables occurs over time, we recognize revenue on fixed fee contracts on the proportion of total cost expended (under Topic 606, the `input method') to the total cost expected to complete the contract performance obligation. For contracts that require the input method for revenue recognition, the determination of the total cost expected to complete the performance obligations on fixed fee contracts involves significant judgment. We incorporate revisions to hour and cost estimates when the causal facts become known. Inventory valuation Inventory is computed using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method and is stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. We make judgments and estimates to value our inventory and make adjustments to its carrying value. We review several factors in determining the market value of our inventory including: evaluating the replacement cost of the raw materials, the net realizable value of the finished goods, and the likelihood of obsolescence. If we do not achieve our targeted sales prices, if market conditions for our components or products were to decline, or if we do not achieve our sales forecast, additional reductions in the carrying value of the inventory would be required. Share-based compensation We issue share-based compensation to employees in the form of stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance stock units (PSUs). We account for the share-based awards by recognizing the fair value of share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award, net of estimated forfeitures. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of RSUs is determined by the closing price of our common stock on the grant date. The PSUs are valued using a binomial option pricing model using the following inputs: stock price, volatility, and risk-free interest rates. Changes in estimated inputs or using other option valuation methods may result in materially different option values and share-based compensation expense. 16 Income taxes Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax position and in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. We record a valuation allowance when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. Based on our history of losses since inception, the available objective evidence creates sufficient uncertainty regarding the realizability of the deferred tax assets. Our actual tax exposure may differ from our estimates and any such differences may impact income our tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. The key accounting policies described above are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for us to apply judgment or make estimates. There are also areas in which our judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result to our consolidated financial statements. Additional information about our accounting policies, and other disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles, are set forth in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Inflation has not had a material impact on our revenues or income from continuing operations over the three most recent fiscal years. Results of Operations YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2017. Product revenue % of % of total total 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Product revenue $ - - $ 2,300 23.9 $ (2,300) (100.0) Product revenue is revenue from sales of our products which are LBS engines, MEMS and ASICs. Revenue is recognized when the product is shipped to the customer because control passes to the customer at the point of shipment. Our product sales generally include acceptance provisions, however, because we generally can objectively determine that we have met agreed-upon customer specifications prior to shipment, control of the item passes at the time of shipment. We did not recognize any product revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018. Product revenue backlog at December 31, 2018 and 2017 was zero and $4.3 million, respectively. The change in backlog from September 30, 2018 to December 31, 2018 was due to the uncertainty of fulfilling the remainder of our March 2017 order from Ragentek. We are pursuing our legal rights to enforce the contract. License and royalty revenue % of % of total total 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) License and royalty revenue $ 10,011 56.9 $ 350 3.6 $ 9,661 2,760.3 17 License and royalty revenue is revenue under license agreements to our PicoP scanning technology. We recognize revenue on upfront license fees at a point in time if the nature of the license granted is a right-to-use license, representing functional intellectual property with significant standalone functionality. If the nature of the license granted is a right-to-access license, representing symbolic intellectual property, which excludes significant standalone functionality, we recognize revenue over the period of time we have ongoing obligations under the agreement. We will recognize revenue from sales-based royalties on the basis of the quarterly reports provided by our customer as to the number of royalty-bearing products sold or otherwise distributed. In the event that reports are not received, we will estimate the number of royalty-bearing products sold by our customers. In May 2018, we signed a five-year license agreement with a customer granting them exclusive license to our LBS technology for display-only applications. The license represents functional intellectual property which derives a substantial portion of its utility from its significant standalone functionality. The intellectual property is not expected to substantially change during the license period, nor are we contractually or practically required to use updated intellectual property during the license life. During the year ended December 31, 2018 we completed the performance obligations required by the contract. As a result, we recognized $10.0 million in license revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2018 we recognized $11,000 from ongoing per unit royalties. During the year ended December 31, 2017 we recognized $350,000 from ongoing per unit royalties. Contract revenue % of % of total total 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Contract revenue $ 7,596 43.1 $ 6,984 72.5 $ 612 8.8 Contract revenue includes revenue from performance on development contracts and the sale of prototype units and evaluation kits based on our PicoP scanning engine. Our contract revenue in a particular period is dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts we have entered into, and the availability of technical resources to perform work on the contracts. We recognize contract revenue either at a point in time, or over time, depending upon the characteristics of the individual contract. If control of the deliverable(s) occur over time, the revenue is recognized in proportion to the transfer of control. If control passes to the customer only upon completion and transfer of the asset, revenue is recognized at the completion of the contract. In contracts that include significant customer acceptance provisions, we recognize revenue only upon acceptance of the deliverable(s). We identify each performance obligation in our development contracts at contract inception. The contracts generally include product development and customization specified by the customer. In contracts with multiple performance obligations, we identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are distinct within the context of the contract. Performance obligations that are not distinct at contract inception are combined. Our development contracts are primarily fixed-fee contracts. If control of deliverables occurs over time, we recognize revenue on fixed fee contracts on the proportion of total cost expended (under Topic 606, the "input method") to the total cost expected to complete the contract performance obligation. For contracts that require the input method for revenue recognition, the determination of the total cost expected to complete the performance obligations on fixed fee contracts involves significant judgment. We incorporate revisions to hour and cost estimates when the causal facts become known. In April 2017, we signed a contract with a major technology company to develop an LBS display system. Under the terms of this agreement, we may receive $14.6 million in fees for development contingent on completion of milestones. As of December 31, 2018, we have received $10.7 million in fees for development work. We are recognizing revenue on the $14.6 million in development fees over time utilizing the input method of total costs expended to total cost expected to complete the performance obligation. The original contract was for $14.0 million in fees for development, but the customer added $632,000 in additional work to total $14.6 million. As of December 31, 2018, we have recognized $12.1 million of contract revenue from development fees on this agreement. The increase in contract revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was attributed to increased contract activity. Our contract backlog, including orders for prototype units and evaluation kits, at December 31, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $2.5 million and $9.3 million, respectively. The April 2017 development contract represents $2.5 million of the contract backlog and is scheduled for completion during the second quarter of 2019. 18 Cost of product revenue % of % of product product 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 5,468 n/a $ 4,359 189.5 $ 1,109 25.4 Cost of product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect costs of products sold to customers. Direct costs include labor, materials, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, and other costs incurred directly, or charged to us by our contract manufacturers, in the manufacture of these products. Indirect costs include labor, manufacturing overhead, and other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Manufacturing overhead includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing material, facility and other costs, and is allocated to cost of product revenue based on the proportion of indirect labor which supported production activities. Cost of product revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the product mix and volume, the level of manufacturing overhead expense and the volume of direct material purchased. Cost of product revenue was higher during the year ended December 31, 2018 due to write downs of inventory totaling $4.4 million in 2018 compared to $1.0 million in 2017. This was offset by lower material costs due to zero product shipments compared to the prior year. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we did not expense manufacturing overhead associated with production capacity in excess of production requirements. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we expensed $538,000 of manufacturing overhead associated with production capacity in excess of production requirements. Cost of contract revenue % of % of contract contract 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Cost of contract revenue $ 5,170 68.1 $ 5,503 78.8 $ (333) (6.1) Cost of contract revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of performing on contracts and producing prototype units and evaluation kits. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in producing prototype units and evaluation kits or performing on a contract. Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our research and development department and building our technical capabilities and capacity. Cost of contract revenue is determined by the level of direct and indirect costs incurred, which can fluctuate substantially from period to period. The decrease in the cost of contract revenue during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was attributed to fewer active contracts. Research and development expense 2018 2017 $ change % change (In thousands) Research and development expense $ 24,666 $ 15,096 $ 9,570 63.4 Research and development expense consists of compensation related costs of employees and contractors engaged in internal research and product development activities, direct material to support development programs, laboratory operations, outsourced development and processing work, and other operating expenses. We assign our research and development resources based on the business opportunity of the available projects, the skill mix of the resources available and the contractual commitments we have made to our customers. We believe that a substantial level of continuing research and development expense will be required to further develop our scanning technology. 19 The increase in research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to 2017, was attributable to higher costs related to subcontractors and increased headcount and personnel-related compensation and benefits expenses related to our LBS engine development. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense 2018 2017 $ change % change (In thousands) Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense $ 9,523 $ 10,156 $ (633) (6.2) Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense includes compensation and support costs for marketing, sales, management and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including legal and accounting services, consultants and other operating expenses. The decrease in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was attributed to the reversal of reserves in connection with the settlement of certain claims of approximately $563,000 and decreased travel and recruiting expenses that were offset partially by increased purchased services. Income taxes No provision for income taxes has been recorded because we have experienced net losses from inception through December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2018, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $398.1 million for federal income tax reporting purposes. In addition, we have research and development tax credits of $8.6 million. During 2018, $7.1 million federal net operating losses expired unused. A majority of the net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits available to offset future taxable income, if any, will expire in varying amounts from 2019 to 2038, if not previously used. In certain circumstances, as specified in the Internal Revenue Code, a 50% or more ownership change by certain combinations of our shareholders during any three year period would result in a limitation on our ability to use a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. We did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2018 or at December 31, 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred significant losses since inception. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales, and licensing activities. At December 31, 2018, we had $13.8 million in cash and cash equivalents. Based on our current operating plan that includes expected proceeds from a development contract signed in April 2017 with a major technology company, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations through June 2019. Our receipt of proceeds under our April 2017 development contract is subject to our completion of certain milestones, and we can provide no assurance that such milestones will be completed. We will require additional capital to fund our operating plan past that time. We plan to obtain additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities, product sales and/or licensing activities. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us or, if available, will be available on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis. If adequate capital resources are not available on a timely basis, we intend to consider limiting our operations substantially. This limitation of operations could include reducing investments in our production capacities, research and development projects, staff, operating costs, and capital expenditures. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. 20 Operating activities Cash used in operating activities totaled $22.6 million during 2018, compared to $15.5 million in 2017. Cash used in operating activities resulted primarily from cash used to fund our net loss, after adjusting for non-cash charges such as share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The change in cash flows from operating activities in 2018 was primarily attributable to increased operating expenses versus the prior year. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities totaled $1.1 million in 2018, compared to $3.0 million in 2017. Purchases of property and equipment totaled $1.1 million in 2018, compared to $3.1 million in 2017. We received no proceeds from the sale of property and equipment during 2018, compared to sales proceeds of $59,000 in 2017. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities totaled $20.5 million in 2018, compared to $20.3 million in 2017. Principal payments under capital leases and long-term debt was $12,000 in 2018 and zero in 2017. The following is a list of our financing activities during 2018 and 2017. In December 2018, we raised $4.2 million before issuance costs of approximately $524,000 through an underwritten public offering of 7.0 million shares of our common stock. In June 2018, we raised $18.0 million before issuance costs of approximately $1.4 million through an underwritten public offering of 14.4 million shares of our common stock. In August 2017, we raised $11.5 million before issuance costs of approximately $1.1 million through an underwritten public offering of 5.5 million shares of our common stock. In August 2017, we raised $3.2 million before issuance costs of approximately $26,000 through a private placement of 1.5 million shares of our common stock. During the second quarter of 2017, we received $906,000 from the exercise of warrants to purchase 460,000 shares of common stock, which warrants were issued in connection with earlier financing transactions. During the second quarter of 2017, we received gross proceeds of $3.7 million before issuance costs of approximately $125,000 from the sale of 1.7 million shares of our common stock under an ATM agreement that was terminated in June 2017 at our election without penalty. During the second quarter of 2017, we received proceeds of $2.2 million from the sale of 1.2 million shares of our common stock as part of a common stock purchase agreement entered into in September 2016 that was terminated in August 2017 at our election without penalty. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which OEMs and ODMs introduce products incorporating our PicoP scanning technology and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products. Our ability to raise capital will depend on numerous factors, including the following: Market acceptance of products incorporating our PicoP scanning technology; Changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally; Announcements by other companies in our industry; Changes in business or regulatory conditions; Announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products; The status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; Economic and stock market conditions; The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; Our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements; or Other factors unrelated to our company or industry. If we are successful in establishing OEM or ODM co-development and joint venture arrangements, we expect our partners to fund certain non-recurring engineering costs for technology development and/or for product development. Nevertheless, we expect our capital requirements to remain high as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our PicoP scanning technology. 21 Contractual obligations The following table lists our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2018 (in thousands): Payments Due By Period 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years > 5 years Total Open purchase obligations * $ 5,836 $ 174 $ 174 $ - $ 6,184 Minimum payments under capital leases 21 33 - - 54 Minimum payments under operating leases 654 1,332 871 - 2,857 Minimum payments under long-term liabilities 35 18 - - 53 Minimum payments under research, royalty and licensing agreements 12 24 24 12 72 $ 6,558 $ 1,581 $ 1,069 $ 12 $ 9,220 * Open purchase obligations represent commitments to purchase inventory, materials, capital equipment, maintenance agreements and other goods used in the normal operation of our business. License and royalty obligations continue through the lives of the underlying patents, which is currently through at least 2024. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2, "Summary of significant accounting policies," in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.