Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements." Our actual results could differ materially from the results described in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Item 1A. Risk Factors," beginning below at page 12, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Although we believe that the matters reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. In this Form 10-K, "we," "us," "our," and "Microchip" each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Item 1. Business Overview We develop, manufacture and sell smart, connected and secure embedded control solutions used by our customers for a wide variety of applications. With over 30 years of technology leadership, our broad product portfolio is a Total System Solution (TSS) for our customers that can provide a large portion of the silicon requirements in their applications. TSS is a combination of hardware, software and services which help our customers increase their revenue, reduce their costs and manage their risks compared to other solutions. Our synergistic product portfolio empowers disruptive growth trends, including 5G, data centers, sustainability, Internet of Things (IoT) and edge computing, advanced driver assist systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving, and electric vehicles, in key end markets such as automotive, aerospace and defense, communications, consumer appliances, data centers and computing, and industrial. Business and Macroeconomic Environment In the first half of fiscal 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic initially resulted in a global disruption in economic activity by adversely affecting production, creating supply chain and market disruption, and adversely impacting businesses and individuals. However, in the second half of fiscal 2021, business conditions were unexpectedly strong as businesses and individuals adapted to the effects of the pandemic. In response to global supply constraints, we worked to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on our business by qualifying alternative suppliers, increasing our inventory of raw materials, ramping our internal factories and adding assembly and test capacity to increase our manufacturing capability while securing additional capacity with our subcontractors wherever possible. Strong customer demand for our products continued to outpace capacity in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023. However, in recent months, many of our customers felt the effects of slowing economic activity and increasing business uncertainty and customer requests to push out or cancel backlog increased in the March 2023 quarter. Consistent with the slowing macroeconomic environment, and the growth in our inventory, we have paused most of our factory expansion activity, reduced our planned capital investments for fiscal 2024, and taken steps to lower our inventory in the coming quarters. We are unable to predict the timing or impact of any such slowdown on our business. In order to provide prioritized capacity to our customers, we launched our Preferred Supply Program in February 2021, which provides our customers with prioritized capacity beginning six months after the customer places an order for 12 months of continuous, non-cancellable and non-reschedulable backlog. Although orders under such program cannot be cancelled or rescheduled by the customer, in recent periods, we have accommodated requests by customers to push-out certain orders to help them manage inventory levels and, in some cases, to help other customers that are experiencing supply shortages. Since the March 2022 quarter, we have been entering into long-term supply agreements (LTSAs) with certain of our customers for products that will be shipped in future periods. We also entered into certain LTSAs with key suppliers. In response to the pandemic, we have taken proactive preventative measures to enable a safe environment for our employees and operation of our manufacturing sites. While our global manufacturing sites have been fully operational in recent periods, we strategically implemented plans intended to provide more assurance of business continuity in the event severe outbreaks or government requirements were to impact our operations. 4 Table of Contents Industry Background Competitive pressures require OEMs to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based embedded control systems that enable them to: differentiate their products replace less efficient electromechanical control devices reduce the number of components in their system add product functionality reduce the system level energy consumption make systems safer to operate add security to their products decrease time to market for their products significantly reduce product cost Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including: actuators applications requiring touch buttons, touch screens and graphical user interfaces automotive access control automotive comfort, safety, information and entertainment applications avionics communication infrastructure systems consumer electronics defense and military hardware electric vehicles handheld tools home and building automation industrial automation large and small home appliances medical devices motor controls portable computers and accessories power supplies residential and commercial security systems robotics routers and video surveillance systems satellites smart home and IoT edge devices smart meters and energy monitoring storage and server systems touch control wireless communication Embedded control systems typically incorporate a mixed-signal microcontroller, microprocessor or FPGA as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A mixed-signal microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit, often with on-board non-volatile program memory for program storage, random access memory for data storage and various analog and digital input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the mixed-signal microcontroller, a complete embedded control system often incorporates application-specific software, various analog, mixed-signal, timing, connectivity, security and non-volatile memory components such as EEPROMs and Flash memory. The increasing demand for embedded control systems has made the market for mixed-signal microcontrollers a significant segment of the semiconductor market at $26.9 billion1 in calendar year 2022. Mixed-signal microcontrollers are primarily available in 8-bit through 32-bit architectures. 8-bit mixed-signal microcontrollers remain very cost-effective and easy to use for a wide range of high-volume embedded control applications and, as a result, continue to represent a significant portion of the overall mixed-signal microcontroller market. 16-bit and 32-bit mixed-signal microcontrollers provide higher performance and functionality, and are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. FPGAs are programmable integrated circuits that are used to implement complex logic functions and can be re-programmed at any time, allowing for multiple implementations and revisions during or after the customer system is manufactured. Some versions of 5 Table of Contents FPGAs also include a mixed-signal microcontroller or microprocessor core to provide additional system on chip functionality to compute intensive tasks. The analog segment of the semiconductor market was $93.8 billion1 in calendar year 2022, and this market is fragmented into a large number of sub segments. 1Source: 2022 Gartner Worldwide Semiconductor Market Share by End Market Our Products Our strategic focus is on providing cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed-signal integration, and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products. Mixed-signal Microcontrollers We offer a broad family of proprietary general purpose mixed-signal microcontroller products, with significant analog and mixed-signal functionality incorporated within them, which are marketed under multiple brand names. We believe that our mixed-signal microcontroller product families provide leading function and performance characteristics in the worldwide market. We target the 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit mixed-signal microcontroller and 32-bit embedded mixed-signal microprocessor markets. We also offer specialized mixed-signal microcontrollers for automotive, industrial, computing, communications, lighting, power supplies, motor control, human machine interface, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity applications. We leverage our circuit design, process technologies, development tools, applications knowledge, and manufacturing experiences to enable our customers to implement various embedded control functions in their end systems with our mixed-signal microcontrollers. Analog Our analog product line consists of several families including power management, linear, mixed-signal, high voltage, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, RF, drivers, safety, security, timing, USB, ethernet, wireless and other interface products. We market and sell our analog product line into our mixed-signal microcontroller, microprocessor and FPGA customer base, and to customers who use mixed-signal microcontrollers and FPGA products from other suppliers and to customers who use other products that may not fit our traditional mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGA and memory products customer base. Other Our other product line includes FPGA products, royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, timing systems, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications. Our FPGA products were primarily acquired as a part of our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation (Microsemi) in May 2018. Our portfolio of non-volatile FPGAs are recognized for their low power, high security and extended reliability. We market and sell our FPGA products and related solutions into a broad range of applications within the industrial, automotive, defense, aviation, space and communications markets. Our technology licensing business generates license fees and royalties associated with technology licenses for the use of our SuperFlash embedded flash and other technologies. We also generate fees for engineering services related to these technologies. We license our Non-Volatile Memory technologies to foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of their advanced mixed-signal microcontroller products, gate array, RF, analog and neuromorphic compute products that require embedded non-volatile memory. Our memory products consist of EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial SRAM memories and EERAMs. Serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories, Serial SRAMs and EERAMs have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small footprint devices. We sell our memory products primarily into the embedded control market, complementing our mixed-signal microcontroller offerings. 6 Table of Contents Development Tools We offer a comprehensive set of low-cost and easy-to-learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program our mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGA and microprocessor products for specific applications and, we believe, they are an important factor for facilitating design wins. Our family of development tools for our mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGA and microprocessor products range from entry-level systems, which include an assembler or a compilerand programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation capability. We also offer a complete suite of compilers, software code configurators and simulators. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future mixed-signal microcontroller devices in our portfolio. Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools that support our mixed-signal microcontroller and microprocessor product architectures, including an extensive amount of third-party tool suppliers whose products support our mixed-signal microcontroller architectures. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of development tools from Microchip as well as from third-party development tool partners by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from our standard mixed-signal microcontrollers. Manufacturing Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe, assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control, resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical techniques (such as statistical process control, designed experiments and wafer level monitoring), we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and assembly and testing profit margin. We outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties and the amount of our outsourced manufacturing has increased in recent years due to our acquisitions of Microsemi and other companies that outsourced all or substantial portions of their manufacturing. We comply with several quality systems, including: ISO9001 (2015 version), IATF16949 (2016 version), AS9100 (2016 version), and TL9000. Refer to "Item 2. Properties" for further information regarding the location and principal operations of our manufacturing facilities. Wafer Fabrication Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch wafers and supports various manufacturing process technologies, and predominantly utilizes our 0.25 microns to 1.0 microns processes. During fiscal 2023, we increased Fab 2's capacity to support more advanced technologies by implementing process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment. Fab 4 currently produces 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.13 microns to 0.5 microns manufacturing processes. During fiscal 2023, we continued our multi-year $800 million expansion and capital equipment investment plan to increase Fab 4's capacity to support more advanced technologies by implementing process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding new equipment and two clean rooms. A significant amount of additional clean room capacity in Fab 4 has been brought on line to support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs. Fab 5 currently manufactures discrete and specialty products in addition to a lower volume of a diversified set of standard products on 6-inch wafers. In February 2023, we announced our plan to invest $880 million over the next several years to expand our silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon production capacity, including the production of 8-inch wafers, at our Fab 5 facility. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2, Fab 4, and Fab 5 will allow us to respond to future demand for internally fabricated products with incremental capital expenditures. 7 Table of Contents As a result of our acquisition of Microsemi, we acquired several smaller wafer fabrication facilities, which utilize older technologies that are appropriate for the discrete products they manufacture. We currently plan to continue to operate these fabrication facilities with modest investment to keep them operational with the exception of the facility in Santa Clara, California, which we closed in fiscal 2022. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. We augment our internal manufacturing capabilities by outsourcing a significant portion of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries. As a result of our acquisitions, we have become more reliant on outside wafer foundries for our wafer fabrication requirements. In fiscal 2023, approximately 63% of our sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. Assembly and Test We perform product assembly and test at various facilities located around the world. During fiscal 2023, we increased capacity at our Thailand and Philippines facilities to support more technologies by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment. During fiscal 2023, approximately 59% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our internal facilities and approximately 67% of our test requirements were performed in internal facilities. We use third-party assembly and test contractors for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. We plan to continue to invest in assembly and test equipment to increase our internal capacity capabilities and transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities. General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results. Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and effective use of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our manufacturing personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a significant work-in-process and finished goods inventory. Refer to Note 3 for a summary of our long-lived assets, consisting of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets, by geography. We have many suppliers of raw materials and subcontractors that provide our various materials and service needs. We generally seek to have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services, but, in some cases, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers. Sales and Distribution General We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our CEMs, ESEs, and sales managers have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technology environments. We believe that the technical and business knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical 8 Table of Contents assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team. ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars and workshops in major cities around the world or through online webcasts. Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees. For information regarding our revenue, results of operations, and total assets for each of our last three fiscal years, refer to our financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize us for our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. In fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, we derived 47% and 48%, respectively, of our net sales through distributors compared to 53% and 52%, respectively, of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which made up 11% of our net sales, no other distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2023. In fiscal 2022, no distributor or direct customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice, with the exception of orders placed under our Preferred Supply Program or otherwise designated as non-cancellable. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has historically been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, some of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied, cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China and Taiwan. We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis. We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: performance analog, digital and mixed-signal functionality and level of functional integration field programmability memory density low power consumption extended voltage ranges reliability security and functional safety packaging alternatives comprehensive suite of development tools We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: our broad product portfolio offers a Total System Solutions through a combination of hardware, software and services ease of use functionality of application development systems hardware, software and tool compatibility within product families to increase migration flexibility dependable delivery, quality and availability technical and innovative service and support time to market total solution cost 9 Table of Contents reference design We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates from 2023 through 2042. We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our business. While our intention is to continue to patent our technology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize new and enhanced products. As with any operating company, the scope and strength of our intellectual property assets, including our pending and existing patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights may be insufficient to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Moreover, pursuing violations of intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex challenge involving multinational patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. Further, the laws of particular foreign countries often fail to protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We have also entered into certain in-bound and outbound intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies and those licenses relate to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers from time to time receive, and may continue to receive, demand letters from third parties asserting infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights. We diligently investigate all such notices and respond as we believe appropriate. In most cases we believe that we can obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, however, we cannot be certain that this would be the case, or that litigation or damages for any past infringement could be avoided. Licensees of our technology may become unable to pay, and have in the past and are currently disputing their obligations to pay us royalties or fees. Litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, which could result in substantial costs and require significant attention from management, has been and is expected to be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses, the necessity of engaging in defensive legal proceedings, or any negative results of these proceedings could harm our business. Environmental Regulation We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could result in an increase in capital expenditures such as acquiring costly equipment or other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use, discharge and disposal of regulated substances could result in significant future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, technological changes, or weather, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the storage or use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Human Capital Resources Our Employees We invest in our highly-skilled global workforce of approximately 22,600 people in accordance with our Guiding Value: employees are our greatest strength. We believe that our culture, values, and organizational development and training programs provide an inclusive work environment where our employees are empowered and engaged to deliver the best embedded control solutions to our customers. Culture and Core Values Before Microchip went public in 1993, Microchip created a cultural framework to unite its employees through shared workplace values, and to guide employees strategies, decisions, actions and job performance. Microchips culture is centered 10 Table of Contents on a values-based, highly-empowered, continuous-improvement oriented approach. This corporate culture strengthens our business, and enables us to fulfill our purpose. Our focus on communication aims to provide transparency among leadership, to promote trust among employees, and is a critical part of Microchips culture. Our culture is important to our employees, and is a key reason why we have had a strong worldwide retention rate for many years, and have a significant number of employees with long tenure with Microchip that have grown from individual contributors in the early stages of their careers into senior leadership positions today. This long tenure among our employee-base results in deep relationships and trust being built among colleagues, retention of our knowledge base, and continuation of our culture. More information on our Guiding Values can be found at www.microchip.com/en-us/about/investors/investor-information/mission-statement. We promote employee adoption of our culture through a number of methods including training, mentorship, values-based performance reviews, employee engagement surveys, company-wide quarterly meetings, town hall meetings with the President and Chief Executive Officer and other executive team members, and an open-door policy of communication where employees are encouraged to interact directly with management. Training and Development Microchips culture focuses on continuous improvement. We provide training on our culture, management skills, communication, technical skills, and personal improvement. Microchip also has a leadership program that provides for the growth and development of its future leaders. This program helps us develop leaders that serve as role models of Microchip culture, and support empowerment and open communication. Compensation Programs We strive to provide competitive pay and benefits, that help meet the varying needs of our employees. Our total compensation package includes base pay, broad-based stock grants and bonuses, healthcare and retirement plans, employee stock purchase plans, paid time off and family leave. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 30, 2023: Name Age Position Ganesh Moorthy 63 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director Steve Sanghi 67 Executive Chair J. Eric Bjornholt 52 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Stephen V. Drehobl 61 Senior Vice President, MCU8 and MCU16 Business Units Richard J. Simoncic 59 Executive Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units Mr. Moorthy was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in March 2021 and to the Board of Directors in January 2021. Mr. Moorthy has served as President since February 2016 and Chief Operating Officer since June 2009. He also served as Executive Vice President from October 2006 to August 2012 and as a Vice President in various roles since he joined Microchip in 2001. Prior to this time, he served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor companies. Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A. in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Mumbai, India. Mr. Moorthy was elected to the Board of Directors of Rogers Corporation in July 2013 and serves on the Audit Committee of the Board and as the Nominating and Governance Committee Chairperson. Mr. Sanghi transitioned to Executive Chair in March 2021. He served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1991 to March 2021 and as Chair of the Board since October 1993. He served as President from August 1990 to February 2016 and has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University. Mr. Sanghi served on the Board of Directors of Myomo, Inc., a publicly traded commercial stage medical robotics company that offers expanded mobility for those suffering from neurological disorders and upper-limb paralysis, from November 2016 through October 2019. Mr. Sanghi served on the board of Mellanox Technologies Ltd., a publicly traded supplier of end-to-end Ethernet and InfiniBand intelligent interconnect solutions and services for servers, storage, and hyper-converged infrastructure, from February 2018 through April 2020. Mr. Sanghi was elected to the Board of Directors of Impinj, Inc. in March 2021 and assumed the role of Board Chair in June 2022. 11 Table of Contents Mr. Bjornholt was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. He has served in various financial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995. Mr. Bjornholt holds a Master's degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S. degree in Accounting from the University of Arizona. Mr. Drehobl was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of the MCU8 business unit and various other divisions and business units since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton. Mr. Simoncic was promoted to Executive Vice President in April 2023 and has served as Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units since September 1999. From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles. Since joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. Available Information Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com. We post the following filings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q our current reports on Form 8-K our proxy statement any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act All of our SEC filings on our website are available free of charge. The information on our website isnotincorporated into this Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors below, as well as the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the SEC. Risk Factor Summary Risks Related to Our Business, Operations, and Industry impact of global economic conditions on our operating results, net sales and profitability; impact of economic conditions on the financial viability and performance of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers; impact of price increases, increased tariffs, raw material availability or other factors affecting our suppliers; dependence on wafer foundries and other contractors by our licensees and ourselves; dependence on foreign sales, suppliers, and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks; dependence on orders received and shipped in the same quarter, limited visibility to product shipments other than those shipped through our Preferred Supply Program or LTSAs; intense competition in the markets we serve, leading to pricing pressures, reduced sales or market share; ineffective utilization of our manufacturing capacity or failure to maintain manufacturing yields; inability to achieve expected returns from capacity expansions; impact of seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the industry; dependence on distributors; ability to introduce new products on a timely basis; business interruptions affecting our operations or that of key vendors, licensees or customers; technology licensing business exposes us to various risks; reliance on sales into governmental projects, and compliance with associated regulations; risks related to grants from, or tax arrangements with, governments, agencies and research organizations; ability to realize anticipated benefits from completed or future acquisitions or divestitures; 12 Table of Contents future impairments to goodwill or intangible assets; our failure to maintain proper and effective internal control and remediate future control deficiencies; customer demands to implement business practices that are more stringent than legal requirements; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Litigation attacks on our IT systems, interruptions in our IT systems, our products or our improper handling of data; risks related to compliance with privacy and data protection laws and regulations; risks related to legal proceedings, investigations or claims; risks related to contractual relationships with our customers; and protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Taxation, Laws and Regulations impact on our reported financial results by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; the issuance of new export controls or trade sanctions, fines, restrictions or delays in our ability to export or import products, or increase costs associated with the manufacture or transfer of products; outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns; exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations including the TCJA, or unfavorable assessments from tax audits; impact of the legislative and policy changes implemented globally by the current or future administrations; impact of stringent environmental, climate change, conflict-free minerals and other regulations or customer demands; ESG considerations; and requirement to fund our foreign pension plans. Risks Related to Capitalization and Financial Markets impact of various factors on our future trading price of our common stock; fluctuations in the amount and timing of our common stock repurchases; our ability to effectively manage current or future debt; our ability to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing; impact of conversion of our convertible debt on the ownership interest of our existing stockholders; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations, and Industry Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry, public health or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally, including uncertain economic conditions in U.S., China and Europe, increases in interest rates, high inflation or instability in the banking sector; disruptions in our business, our supply chain or our customers' businesses due to public health concerns (including viral outbreaks such as COVID-19), cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war (including Russia's invasion of Ukraine), worldwide oil prices and supply, fires, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; the level of order cancellations or push-outs due to uncertain economic conditions or other factors; availability of raw materials including rare earth minerals, supplies and equipment due to supply chain constraints or other factors; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; our ability to continue to increase our factory capacity as needed to respond to changes in customer demand; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; increased costs and availability of raw materials, supplies, equipment, utilities, labor, and/or subcontracted services for wafers, assembly and test; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market 13 Table of Contents fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; trade restrictions and increase in tariffs, including those on business in China, or focused on specific companies; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; changes in tax regulations in countries in which we do business; new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; levels of inventories held by our customers and the customers of our distributors; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter, including the impact of product lead times; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution or resale; our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our past or future acquisitions; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation, investigation or claims involving intellectual property, our Microsemi acquisition, customers or other issues; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Uncertain global economic and public health conditions, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have caused and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparisons between periods less meaningful. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by the financial viability and performance of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. We regularly review the financial viability and performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. Any downturn in global or regional economic conditions, as a result of rising interest rates, high inflation, instability in the banking sector, the enactment of broad sanctions by the U.S. or other countries against Russia or China, the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors, may adversely impact their financial viability. The financial failure of a large licensee, customer, reseller or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our inability to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher allowances for credit losses, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. Also, these parties may not comply with their contractual commitments, or may interpret them differently than we do, which could lead to termination of their performance with little or no notice to us, which could limit our ability to mitigate our exposure. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent, files for bankruptcy, has business leverage, or stronger contractual terms, then our ability to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterparty's cessation of performance may be limited by their liquidity, the applicable laws, or their willingness to negotiate a resolution. In the event of such default or cessation of performance, we could incur significant losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We have various arrangements with financial institutions for our cash deposits, and other banking activities, that subject us to risk if such institutions were to experience financial or regulatory difficulties. As a result, we may experience losses on our holdings of cash and cash equivalents due to failures of financial institutions or other related parties. We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs, increase prices, are impacted by increases in tariffs, or such raw materials, components or equipment become restricted or unavailable. Our manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have multiple sources for these supplies, but there may be a limited number of suppliers capable of meeting our standards. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time to fill our orders, that they cannot fill certain orders, that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or parts, or that they are increasing prices. In particular, in fiscal 2023 and in fiscal 2022, we experienced increased prices at certain suppliers for certain materials required for production purposes. Such conditions may continue. 14 Table of Contents An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. The supplies necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors increases, or due to supply chain disruptions, trade restrictions or political instability. Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change our relationships with them. Also, the reduced availability of necessary labor, the application of sanctions, trade restrictions or tariffs by the U.S. or other countries or the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, may adversely impact the industry supply chain. For example, in 2019, the U.S. government increased tariffs on U.S. imports with China as their country of origin. Likewise, the China government increased tariffs on China imports with U.S. as their country of origin. We have taken steps to attempt to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. Although these increases in tariffs did not significantly increase the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. The additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have an adverse impact on our operating results in future periods. We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our operations. This could also impair sourcing flexibility. Our customers may also be adversely affected by these same issues. The labor, supplies and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, reduced availability of labor, consolidation in their supply chain, or sanctions, trade restrictions or tariffs or the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. If our customers are not able to produce their products, then their need for our products will decrease. Such interruptions of our customers businesses could harm our business. We do not, nor have we historically, purchased significant amounts of equipment from Russia, Belarus, or Ukraine. However, the semiconductor industry, and purchasers of semiconductors, use raw materials that are sourced from these regions, such as neon, palladium, cesium, rubidium, and nickel. If we, or our direct or indirect customers, are unable to obtain the requisite raw materials or components needed to manufacture products, our ability to manufacture products, or demand for our products, may be adversely impacted. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. While there has been an adverse impact on the worlds palladium, neon, cesium, and rubidium supply chains, at this time, our supply chains have been able to meet our needs. While sales of our products into the regions, and to customers that sell into these regions, have been negatively impacted by the Russian invasion of Ukraine, at this time, we have not experienced a material impact on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. Additionally, certain materials are primarily available in a limited number of countries, including rare earth elements, minerals, and metals. Trade disputes, geopolitical tensions, economic circumstances, political conditions, or public health issues, such as COVID-19, may limit our ability to obtain materials or equipment. Although rare earth and other materials are generally available from multiple suppliers, China is the predominant producer of certain of these materials. If China were to restrict or stop exporting these materials, our suppliers' ability to obtain such supply may be constrained and we may be unable to obtain sufficient quantities, or obtain supply in a timely manner, or at a commercially reasonable cost. Constrained supply of rare earth elements, minerals, and metals may restrict our ability to manufacture certain of our products and make it difficult or impossible to compete with other semiconductor memory manufacturers who are able to obtain sufficient quantities of these materials from China or other countries. We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors, as are our SuperFlash and other licensees. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. Specifically, during fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, approximately 63% and 60%, respectively, of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. We also use several contractors for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. Specifically, during fiscal 2023, approximately 41% of our assembly requirements and 33% of our test requirements were performed by third-party contractors compared to approximately 41% of our assembly requirements and 36% of our test requirements during fiscal 2022. Due to increased demand for our products, we took actions in fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 to increase our capacity allocation from our wafer fabrication, assembly and test subcontractors. However, we expect foundry capacity may continue to be limited for certain process technology nodes and there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure the necessary allocation of capacity from our wafer foundries and other contractors, that any such additional capacity will have the ability to manufacture the process technologies that we need, or that such capacity will be available on acceptable terms. Although we are continuing to expand our internal wafer fabrication, assembly and test capacity, we expect that our reliance on third-party contractors may increase over time as our business grows, and any inability to secure necessary external capacity could adversely affect our operating results. As our manufacturing subcontractors move to more advanced process technologies over time, we may find that they do not invest in some of the trailing edge process technologies on which a large portion of our products are manufactured. If this occurs, it may limit the amounts of net sales that we can achieve or require us to make significant investments to be able to 15 Table of Contents manufacture these products in our own existing facilities, at new facilities or at other foundries and assembly and testing contractors. In August 2022, the U.S. government passed the CHIPS Act to provide billions of dollars of cash incentives and a new investment tax credit to increase domestic manufacturing capacity in our industry. We expect to receive the cash benefit associated with the investment tax credit for qualifying capital expenditures in future periods and expect to apply for other incentives provided by the legislation; however, there can be no assurance that we will receive any such other incentives, what the amount and timing of any incentive we receive will be, as to which other companies will receive incentives and whether the legislation will have a positive or negative impact on our competitive position. Our use of third parties reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. Our future operating results could suffer if a significant contractor were to experience production difficulties, insufficient capacity, decreased manufacturing, reduced availability of labor, assembly and test yields, or increased costs due to disruptions from political upheaval, infrastructure disruption or the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, our future operating results could suffer if our wafer foundries and other contractors increase the prices of the products and services that they provide to us. If third parties do not timely deliver products or services in accordance with our quality standards, we may be unable to qualify alternate manufacturing sources in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon processes that we need, or fail to adopt technologies that we desire to control costs. In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Further, use of subcontractors increases the risks of misappropriation of our intellectual property. Certain of our SuperFlash and other technology licensees rely on wafer foundries. If our licensees experienced disruption in supply at such foundries, this would reduce the revenue from our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. We are highly dependent on foreign sales, suppliers, and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2023, approximately 78% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 21% in China and 14% in Taiwan. During fiscal 2022, approximately 78% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 22% in China and 15% in Taiwan. A strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. Although our sales in the Chinese market were very strong in calendar 2021, competition in China is intense, and China's economic growth slowed in calendar 2022 and into calendar 2023. In the past, economic weakness in the Chinese market adversely impacted our sales volumes in China. As discussed above, the trade relationship between the U.S. and China remains challenging, economic conditions in China remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. Additionally, over the last several years, the impact of unpredictable COVID-19 related lockdowns and the adverse impact of the rapid transmission of COVID-19 when lock-downs in China were lifted has adversely impacted Chinese customers and the supply chain. Further, increasing investment in the semiconductor industry by the Chinese government and various state-owned of affiliated entities are intended to advance China's stated national policy objectives. The Chinese government may restrict us from participating in the China market, or may prevent us from competing effectively with Chinese companies. Weakening of foreign markets could result in lower demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. Please see the risks related to access to raw materials, components, or equipment on page 14. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities, and finished goods warehouses near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability and severe flooding in the past. There can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. We have a test facility in Calamba, Philippines. We use foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; political instability, including changes in relations between China and Taiwan which could disrupt the operations of our Taiwan-based third-party wafer foundries, and subcontractors; social and economic instability due to public health concerns, wars, or other factors; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; supply chain disruptions or delays; 16 Table of Contents potentially adverse tax consequences; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in laws related to taxes, trade, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection; restrictions on the transfer of funds, including currency controls in China, which could negatively affect the amount and timing of certain customer payments, and as a results our cash flows; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents; disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions (including viral outbreaks such as COVID-19); and difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles. If any of these risks occur or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer, we could face an increase in the cost of components, production delays, business interruptions, delays in obtaining export licenses, or denials of such licenses, tariffs and other restrictions, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business. Further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earth minerals, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and have limited visibility to product shipments other than orders placed under our Preferred Supply Program and under our LTSAs. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and orders that are both received and shipped in the same quarter, which we call turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, our ability to respond quickly to customer orders has been part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our visibility on future shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. Although our backlog has been strong in recent periods due to favorable industry conditions and the impact of our Preferred Supply Program and our LTSAs, in the future we expect turns orders to remain important to our ability to meet our business objectives. Because turns orders can be difficult to predict, especially in times of economic volatility where customers may change order levels within the quarter, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. The level of turns orders may also decrease in future periods in situations where customers are holding excess inventory of our products. Our customers may have increased their order levels in recent previous periods to help ensure they have sufficient inventory of our products to meet their needs, or they may have been unable to sell their products at their forecasted levels which would reduce our level of turns orders. As a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets or effectively manage our production based on changes in order forecasts, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. In February 2021, we announced our Preferred Supply Program and, starting in the first quarter of calendar 2022, we began entering into LTSAs, which offer our customers the ability to receive prioritized capacity. To participate in the Preferred Supply Program, customers are expected to place 12 months of orders, which cannot be cancelled or rescheduled by the customer except in the event of price increases. The capacity priority under the Preferred Supply Program began for shipments in July 2021. The Preferred Supply Program and the LTSAs are not a guarantee of supply; however, they will provide the highest priority for those orders which are under these programs, and the capacity priority will be on a first-come, first-served basis until the available capacity is booked. A significant portion of our capacity is booked under these programs. We believe these programs will enable us to be in a stronger position to make capacity and raw material commitments to our suppliers, buy capital equipment with confidence, hire employees and ramp up manufacturing and manufacture products more efficiently. Since these are relatively new programs, there can be no assurance that the programs will be successful or that they will provide the benefits we expect to our business. For example, in recent periods, we have accommodated requests by customers to push-out certain orders to help them manage inventory levels and, in some cases, to help other customers that are experiencing supply shortages. However, in the event that customers under these programs attempt to cancel or reschedule orders, or refuse shipment, we may have to take legal or other action to enforce the terms of the 17 Table of Contents programs, and any such actions could result in damage to our customer relationships or cause us to incur significant costs. We may be unable to recover damages from customers that default under these programs. Additionally, as orders under these programs cannot be cancelled or returned except in the event of price increases, these programs may result in customers holding excess inventory of our products and thus decrease their need to place new orders, including turns orders, in later periods. Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales or reduced market share. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and faces price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. In addition, some governments, such as China, may provide, or have provided and may continue to provide, significant assistance financial or otherwise, to some of our competitors, or to new entrants, and may intervene in support of national industries and/or competitors. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to ramp production and increase capacity as needed, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities; the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of a product. The average selling prices of our mixed-signal microcontroller, FPGA products, and proprietary products in our analog product line have remained relatively constant over time, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary products in our analog product line have declined over time. The overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, modest pricing declines in certain of our proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. In the past, we have moderated average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. However, we may not be able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, competitive pricing pressures on our memory and non-proprietary products in our analog product line. In fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, we experienced cost increases which we were able to pass on to our customers. However, in the future, we may be unable to maintain average selling prices due to increased pricing pressure, which could adversely impact our operating results. We, and our competitors, seek to expand production capacity, increase wafer output, improve yields, and reduce die size, which could result in significant increases in worldwide supply and downward pressure on prices. Increases in worldwide supply of semiconductor products, if not accompanied by commensurate increases in demand, could lead to declines in average selling prices for our products, and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. Integrated circuits manufacturing processes are complex and sensitive to many factors, including contaminants in the manufacturing environment or materials used, the performance of our personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating 18 Table of Contents results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue, and penalties for failure to meet shipment deadlines. Our operating results are adversely affected when we operate below normal capacity. In fiscal 2023 and in fiscal 2022, we operated at or above normal capacity levels. We may not be able to achieve expected returns from our planned capacity expansions. We have announced our intent to expand our production capacity in the United States. In particular, we have continued our multi-year $800 million capacity expansion plan at Fab 4 in Gresham, Oregon and we plan to invest $880 million to expand our silicon carbide (SiC) and silicon production capacity, including the production of 8-inch wafers at Fab 5 in Colorado Springs, Colorado. These expansion projects subject us to a number of risks, including the following: availability of necessary funding, which may include external sources; ability to realize expected grants, investment tax credits, and other government incentives, including through the CHIPS Act and foreign, state, and local grants; increases to our cost structure until new production is ramped to adequate scale; sufficient customer demand to utilize our increased capacity; ability to timely ramp production in a cost-effective manner; potential changes in laws or provisions of grants, investment tax credits, and other government incentives; availability of labor, services, equipment, and construction materials; ability to complete construction as scheduled, and within budget; and availability of the necessary workforce to support the expanded capacity. Investments in capital expenditures for our capacity expansion projects may not generate expected returns, or cash flows. Significant judgement is required to determine which capital investments will result in optimal returns, and we could invest in projects that are ultimately less profitable than those projects we do not select. Delays in completion and ramping of expanded production facilities, or failure to optimize our investment choices, could significantly impact our ability to realize expected returns on our capital expenditures. Further, adverse impacts to our construction projects could negatively impact our ability to reduce costs or meet customer demand. Any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our operating results are impacted by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Historically, since a significant portion of our revenue is from international sales and consumer markets, our business generates stronger revenues in the first half and comparatively weaker revenues in the second half of our fiscal year. However, broad fluctuations in our business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions (including the impact of strong demand in the industry, the COVID-19 pandemic or trade tensions) and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of Microsemi) have had and can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. In periods when broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonality on our business. The semiconductor industry has had significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. In this regard, in recent months many of our customers felt the effects of slowing economic activity and increasing business uncertainty and customer requests to push-out or cancel backlog increased in the March 2023 quarter. Consistent with the slowing macroeconomic environment, and the growth in our inventory, we have paused most of our factory expansion actions, reduced our planned capital investments for fiscal 2024, and taken steps to lower our inventory in the coming quarters. We are unable to predict the timing or impact of any such slowdown on our business. Our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers. Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 47% of our net sales in fiscal 2023 and approximately 48% of our net sales in fiscal 2022. With the exception of orders placed under our Preferred Supply Program and LTSAs, we do not have long-term purchase agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. 19 Table of Contents Future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies and labor markets or credit markets could materially impact distributor operations. Any deterioration in the financial condition, or disruption in the operations of our distributors, could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, there may be an oversupply and decrease in demand for our products, which could reduce our net sales in a given period, increase order push-outs, increase inventory returns, and cause us to carry elevated levels of inventory. For example, in recent periods, we have accommodated requests by customers to push-out certain orders to help them manage inventory levels and, in some cases, to help other customers that are experiencing supply shortages. As a result of the foregoing, we may incur charges in connection with obsolete or excess inventory, or we may not fully recover our costs, which would reduce our gross margins. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and sanction laws, or similar laws, by our distributors could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: effective new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; availability of skilled employees; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms, including those that may be needed to offer interoperability between our products and third-party products; implementation of appropriate technical standards developed by standard setting organizations; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. New products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and others in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in transitioning to advanced process technologies and have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. Business interruptions to our operations or those of our key vendors, licensees or customers could harm our business. Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors, licensees or customers may be disrupted due to public health concerns (including outbreaks such as COVID-19), work stoppages or reduction in available labor, power loss, insufficient water, cyber attacks, computer network compromises, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, governmental actions, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, or fire, earthquake, floods, droughts, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that we will avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a business interruption. For example, in the first three months of fiscal 2023 and in fiscal 2022, COVID-19 related restrictions adversely impacted our manufacturing operations in the U.S., Philippines and Thailand along with our subcontractors' manufacturing operations in Malaysia, Taiwan and China. Similar challenges arose for our logistics service providers, which adversely impacted their ability to ship product to our customers. The pandemic could adversely impact our business in future periods if the impact of COVID-19 again becomes severe in one or more of our key markets such as China or in areas where our suppliers or manufacturing operations are located. In the future, local governments could require us to reduce production, cease operations at any of our facilities, or implement mandatory vaccine requirements, and we could experience constraints in fulfilling customer orders. Additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. In April and May 2020, we received a greater number of order cancellations and requests by our customers to reschedule deliveries to future dates. Some customers requested order cancellations within our firm order window and claimed applicability of force 20 Table of Contents majeure clauses due to the impact of COVID-19. Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline. Also, Thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. While our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to timely shift production to other facilities, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. Business interruptions would likely cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues, cancellation of orders, or loss of customers. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not compensate us for any losses or damages, and business interruptions could significantly harm our business. Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks. Our technology licensing business is based on our SuperFlash and other technologies. The success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop such technologies, to introduce new technologies, and to enforce our license terms. To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology, and enforce the terms of our licenses; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support OEM production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. Because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or reduced production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive. Our technology license agreements generally include a clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from certain intellectual property matters. We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. We have a program to audit the royalty payments made by our licensees to help ensure that the payments are in accordance with the terms of the applicable license agreements. From time to time, we or our licensees have contested the amount of royalty payments and related claims could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. These issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. Reliance on sales into governmental projects, and compliance with associated regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. As a result of our Microsemi acquisition, in May 2018, a significant portion of our sales are from or are derived from government agencies or customers who sell to U.S. government agencies. Such sales are subject to uncertainties regarding governmental spending levels, spending priorities, regulatory and policy changes. Future sales into U.S. government projects are subject to uncertain government appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the budgetary process, changes in the timing and spending priorities, the impact of any past or future government shutdowns, contract terminations or renegotiations, future sequestrations, changes in regulations that we must comply with to be eligible to accept new contracts, such as the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification requirements and mandatory vaccine requirements, or the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, in fiscal 2022, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced suspensions and stop work orders for some of our subcontracts. Additionally, the amendment to the U.S. National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) was signed into law on December 23, 2022, and its provisions go into effect in December 2027. The NDAA amendment prohibits U.S. government agencies from buying semiconductor products or services manufactured by SMIC, YMTC, CXMT and any other entity that the U.S. government determines is owned, controlled, or connected to the government of a foreign country of concern (Prohibited Companies). Some of our products are manufactured at SMIC, and some of our suppliers buy products manufactured at YMTC. If we are unable to alternately source 21 Table of Contents or manufacture certain of our products, or discontinue use of products from Prohibited Companies, if any, when the NDAA amendment goes into effect in December 2027, this could adversely impact our sales to U.S. government agencies and their prime customers. Although such actions have not yet had a material adverse impact on our business, there can be no assurance as to the future costs or implications of such actions. Sales into government projects are also subject to uncertainties related to monetary, regulatory, tax and trade policies implemented by current or future administrations or by the U.S. Congress. In the past, Microsemi experienced delays and reductions in appropriations on programs that included its products. For example, in 2018 there were two federal government shutdowns. Further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the U.S. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. If the U.S. government fails to complete its annual budget process, provide for a continuing resolution to fund government operations or increase the federal debt limit, another federal government shutdown may occur, during which we may experience further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. While we generally function as a subcontractor in these type of transactions, further changes in U.S. government procurement regulations and practices, particularly surrounding initiatives to reduce costs or increase compliance obligations (such as the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification and mandatory vaccine requirements), may adversely impact the contracting environment, our ability to hire and retain employees, and our operating results. The U.S. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with us at any time. For example, in 2014, the U.S. government terminated a $75 million contract with Microsemi. Uncertainty in government spending and termination of contracts for government related projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenue from our government related business. Our contracts with U.S. governmental agencies or prime customers require us to comply with the contract terms, and governmental regulations, particularly for our facilities, systems and personnel that service such customers. To be awarded new contracts, we may be required to meet certain levels of the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification that we may not meet, or choose to meet. Complying with these regulations, including audit requirements, requires that we devote significant resources to such matters in terms of training, personnel, information technology and facilities. Any failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and penalties, or loss of current or future business, that may materially and adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations, or enter into tax arrangements. If we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants or arrangements, we may not be able to receive or recognize benefits or we may be required to repay benefits, recognize related charges, or could be required to implement certain limitations on our business, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. From time to time, we have received, and may in the future receive, economic incentive grants, tax benefits, and allowances from national, state and local governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment, production or investment at specific locations. Tax arrangements and subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditures and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. The CHIPS Act, for example, contains technology licensing restrictions that we may be required to comply with if we receive a grant under this legislation. Noncompliance with the conditions of the grants or arrangements could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. We may be unable to obtain future incentives to continue to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and operating costs, without which our cost structure would be adversely impacted. Further, any decrease in amounts received could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures. We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. In May 2018, we acquired Microsemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever. Integration of our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies. We may not realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. It may be difficult to develop, manufacture and market the products of a newly acquired company, or grow the business at the rate we anticipate. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. We have been and 22 Table of Contents may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. In particular, in connection with our Microsemi and Atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related to such businesses and transactions. See "Note 10. Commitments and Contingencies" to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding such matters which are still pending. Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. To fund our acquisition of Microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt. We may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, it may be difficult to find or complete divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies, which may include site closures, timely or on acceptable terms. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to the desired divestiture, or the price or terms of the divestiture may be less favorable than we had anticipated. Even following a divestiture or other exit strategy, we may have certain continuing obligations to former employees, customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. We may also have continuing liabilities related to former employees, assets or businesses. Such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other strategic relationships with other companies. These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. As a result of our acquisition activity, including our acquisition of Microsemi in May 2018, our goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. As of March 31, 2023, we had goodwill of $6.67 billion and net intangible assets of $3.37 billion. In connection with the completion of our acquisition of Microsemi in May 2018, our goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly. We review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. Because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2023 or in fiscal 2022. We recognized $1.8 million and $3.0 million of intangible asset impairment charges in fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively. If in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control and remediate any future control deficiencies, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our reputation with investors. We have in the past identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to accounting for income taxes and we also identified a material weakness in our internal controls related to IT system access. Although such material weaknesses were remediated in fiscal 2020, there can be no assurance that similar control issues will not be identified in the future. If we cannot remediate future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner, or if we identify additional control deficiencies that individually or together constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, our ability to accurately record, process, and report financial information and our ability to prepare financial statements within required time periods, could be adversely affected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls could result in violations of applicable securities laws, stock exchange listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt agreements, subject us to litigation and investigations, negatively affect investor confidence in our financial statements, and adversely impact our stock price and our ability to access capital markets. 23 Table of Contents Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting