Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our fiscal year 2021 financial results. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict. Refer to Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment to Sustainability We work to ensure that technology is inclusive, trusted, and increases sustainability. We are accelerating progress toward a more sustainable future by reducing our environmental footprint, advancing research, helping our customers build sustainable solutions, and advocating for policies that benefit the environment. In January 2020, we announced a bold commitment and detailed plan to be carbon negative by 2030, and to remove from the environment by 2050 all the carbon we have emitted since our founding in 1975. This included a commitment to invest $1 billion over four years in new technologies and innovative climate solutions. We built on this pledge by adding commitments to be water positive by 2030, zero waste by 2030, and to protect ecosystems by developing a Planetary Computer. We also help our suppliers and customers around the world use Microsoft technology to reduce their own carbon footprint. In January 2021, we announced that in fiscal year 2020 we reduced Microsofts carbon emissions by 586,683 metric tons. We purchased the removal of 1.3 million metric tons of carbon from 26 projects around the world. Furthermore, we shared a commitment to transparency by subjecting the data in our annual sustainability report to third-party review and to accountability by including progress on sustainability goals as a factor in determining executive pay. 6 PART I Item 1 The investments we make in sustainability carry through to our products, services, and devices. We design our devices, from Surface to Xbox, to minimize their impact on the environment . Our cloud and AI services and datacenters help businesses cut energy consumption, reduce physical footprints, and design sustainable products. We also pledged a $50 million investment in AI for Earth to accelerate innovation by putting AI in the hands of those working to directly address sustainability challenges. We are committed to playing our part to help accelerate the worlds transition to a more economically and environmentally sustainable future for us all . Addressing Racial Injustice and Inequity Our future opportunity depends on reaching and empowering all communities, and we are committed to taking action to help address racial injustice and inequity. With significant input from employees and leaders who are members of the Black and African American community, our senior leadership team and board of directors announced in June 2020 that we had developed a set of actions to help improve the lived experience at Microsoft and drive change in the communities in which we live and work. These efforts include increasing our representation and strengthening our culture of inclusion by doubling the number of Black and African American people managers, senior individual contributors, and senior leaders in the United States by 2025; evolving our ecosystem with our supply chain, banking partners, and partner ecosystem; and strengthening our communities by using data, technology, and partnerships to help address racial injustice and inequities of the Black and African American communities in the U.S. and improve the safety and wellbeing of our employees and their communities. Over the last year, we have collaborated with partners and worked within neighborhoods and communities to launch and scale a number of projects and programs including: expanding our existing justice reform work with a five-year, $50 million sustained effort, expanding access to affordable broadband and devices for Black and African American communities and key institutions that support them in major urban centers, expanding access to skills and education to support Black and African American students and adults to succeed in the digital economy, and increasing technology support for nonprofits that provide critical services to Black and African American communities. We have more than doubled our percentage share of transaction volume with Black- and African American-owned financial institutions and increased our deposits with Black- and African American-owned minority depository institutions, enabling increased funds into local communities. Additionally, we have seen growth in our Black- and African American-owned supplier base and in Black- and African American-owned technology partners in the Microsoft Partner Network, and we launched the Black Channel Partner Alliance community to support partners onboarding to the Microsoft Cloud and to unlock partner benefits for co-selling with Microsoft. We acknowledge we have more work ahead of us to address racial injustice and inequity, and are applying many of the programs above to help other underrepresented communities. Investing in Digital Skills With a continued focus on digital transformation, Microsoft is helping to ensure that no one is left behind, particularly as economies recover from the COVID-19 pandemic. We announced in June 2020 that we are expanding access to the digital skills that have become increasingly vital to many of the worlds jobs, and especially to individuals hardest hit by recent job losses. Our skills initiative brings together learning resources, certification opportunities, and job-seeker tools from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn, and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIns Economic Graph. We also invested $20 million in key non-profit partnerships through Microsoft Philanthropies to help people from underserved communities that are often excluded by the digital economy. Over 42 million people across every continent have accessed free training through our skills initiative. The effort surpassed its initial goals and has been expanded with a new emphasis on connecting learners with jobs that help put their new training to use and connecting employers with skilled job seekers they might not find in traditional networks. 7 PART I Item 1 HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Microsoft aims to recruit, develop, and retain diverse, world-changing talent. To foster their and our success, we seek to create an environment where people can do their best work a place where they can proudly be their authentic selves, guided by our values, and where they know their needs can be met. We strive to maximize the potential of our human capital resources by creating a respectful, rewarding, and inclusive work environment that enables our global employees to create products and services that further our mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. As of June 30, 2021, we employed approximately 181,000 people on a full-time basis, 103,000 in the U.S. and 78,000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 67,000 were in operations, including manufacturing, distribution, product support, and consulting services; 60,000 were in product research and development; 40,000 were in sales and marketing; and 14,000 were in general and administration. Certain of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our Culture Microsofts culture is grounded in the growth mindset. This means everyone is on a continuous journey to learn and grow. We believe potential can be nurtured and is not pre-determined, and we should always be learning and curious - trying new things without fear of failure. We identified four attributes that allow growth mindset to flourish: Obsessing over what matters to our customers. Becoming more diverse and inclusive in everything we do. Operating as one company, One Microsoft, instead of multiple siloed businesses. Making a difference in the lives of each other, our customers, and the world around us. Our employee listening systems enable us to gather feedback directly from our workforce to inform our programs and employee needs globally. 88% of employees globally participated in our fiscal year 2021 MS Poll engagement survey, which covers a variety of topics such as inclusion, pay and benefits, and learning and development. Throughout the fiscal year, we also collect nearly 75,000 Daily Pulse employee survey responses. During fiscal year 2021, our Daily Pulse surveys gave us invaluable insights into ways we could support employees through the COVID-19 pandemic and addressing racial injustice. In addition to poll and pulse surveys, we gain insights through onboarding and exit surveys, internal Yammer channels, employee Q&A sessions, and AskHR Service support. Diversity and Inclusion At Microsoft we have an inherently inclusive mission: to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We think of diversity and inclusion as core to our business model, informing our actions to impact economies and people around the world. There are billions of people who want to achieve more, but have a different set of circumstances, abilities, and backgrounds that often limit access to opportunity and achievement. The better we represent that diversity inside Microsoft, the more effectively we can innovate for those we seek to empower. We strive to include others by holding ourselves accountable for diversity, driving global systemic change in our workplace and workforce, and creating an inclusive work environment. Through this commitment we can allow everyone the chance to be their authentic selves and do their best work every day. We support multiple highly active Employee Resource Groups for women, families, racial and ethnic minorities, military, people with disabilities, or who identify as LGBTQI+, where employees can go for support, networking, and community-building. As described in our 2020 Proxy Statement , annual performance and compensation reviews of our senior leadership team include an evaluation of their contributions to employee culture and diversity. To ensure accountability over time, we publicly disclose our progress on a multitude of workforce metrics including: Detailed breakdowns of gender, racial, and ethnic minority representation in our employee population, with data by job types, levels, and segments of our business. Our EEO-1 report (equal employment opportunity). Disability representation. 8 PART I Item 1 Total Rewards We develop dynamic, sustainable, and strategic programs with the goal of providing a highly differentiated portfolio to attract, reward, and retain top talent and enable our employees to do their best work. These programs reinforce our culture and values such as collaboration and growth mindset. Managers evaluate and recommend rewards based on, for example, how well we leverage the work of others and contribute to the success of our colleagues. We monitor pay equity and career progress across multiple dimensions. As part of our effort to promote a One Microsoft and inclusive culture, we expanded stock eligibility to all Microsoft employees as part of our annual rewards process. This includes all non-exempt and exempt employees and equivalents across the globe including business support professionals and datacenter and retail employees. Pay Equity In our 2020 Diversity and Inclusion Report, we reported that all racial and ethnic minority employees in the U.S. combined earn $1.006 for every $1.000 earned by their white counterparts, that women in the U.S. earn $1.001 for every $1.000 earned by their counterparts in the U.S. who are men, and women in the U.S. plus our ten other largest employee geographies (Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan, and United Kingdom) combined earn $1.000 for every $1.000 by men in these countries. Our intended result is a global performance and development approach that fosters our culture, and competitive compensation that ensures equitable pay by role while supporting pay for performance. Wellness and Safety Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees well-being and safety while they are at work and in their personal lives. We took a wide variety of measures to protect the health and well-being of our employees, suppliers, and customers during the COVID-19 pandemic. We made substantial modifications to employee travel policies and implemented office closures so non-essential employees could work remotely. We continued to pay hourly service providers such as cleaning and reception staff who may have otherwise been furloughed. We implemented a global Paid Pandemic School and Childcare Closure Leave to support working parents, added wellbeing days for those who needed to take time off for mental health and wellness, implemented on-demand COVID-19 testing and vaccinations on our Redmond, Washington campus, and extended full medical plan coverage for coronavirus testing, treatment, and telehealth services. We also expanded existing programs such as our Microsoft CARES Employee Assistance Program and family backup care. In addition to the extraordinary steps and programs relating to COVID-19, our comprehensive benefits package includes many physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs including counseling through the Microsoft CARES Employee Assistance Program, flexible fitness benefits, savings and investment tools, adoption assistance, and back-up care for children and elders. Finally, our Occupational Health and Safety program helps ensure employees can stay safe while they are working. Learning and Development Our growth mindset culture begins with valuing learning over knowing seeking out new ideas, driving innovation, embracing challenges, learning from failure, and improving over time. To support this culture, we offer a wide range of learning and development opportunities. We believe learning can be more than formal instruction, and our learning philosophy focuses on providing the right learning, at the right time, in the right way. Opportunities include: Personalized, integrated, and relevant views of all learning opportunities on our internal learning portal, our external learning portal MS Learn, and LinkedIn Learning that is available to all employees worldwide. In-the-classroom learning, learning pods, our early-in-career Aspire program, and manager excellence communities. On-the-job stretch and advancement opportunities. Managers holding conversations about employees career and development plans, coaching on career opportunities, and programs like mentoring and sponsorship. Customized manager learning to build people manager capabilities and similar learning solutions to build leadership skills for all employees including differentiated leadership development programs. 9 PART I Item 1 New employee orientation covering a range of topics including company values, culture, and Standards of Business Conduct , as well as ongoing onboarding program . Our employees embrace the growth mindset and take advantage of the formal learning opportunities as well as thousands of informal and on-the-job learning opportunities. In terms of formal on-line learning solutions, in fiscal year 2021 our employees completed over 5 million courses, averaging over 18 hours per employee. Given our focus on understanding core company beliefs and compliance topics, all employees complete required learning programs like Standards of Business Conduct, Privacy, Unconscious Bias, and preventing harassment courses. Our corporate learning portal has over 100,000 average monthly active users. All of our approximately 23,000 people managers must complete between 25-30 hours of required manager capability and excellence training and are assigned ongoing required training each year. In addition, all employees complete skills training based on the profession they are in each year. New Ways of Working The global pandemic has accelerated our capabilities and culture with respect to flexible work. Microsoft has introduced a Hybrid Workplace Flexibility Guide to better support managers and employees as they adapt to new ways of working that shift paradigms, embrace flexibility, promote inclusion, and drive innovation. Our ongoing survey data shows employees value the flexibility related to work location, work site, and work hours, and while many indicate they intend to return to a worksite once conditions permit, they also intend to adjust hours or spend some portions of workweeks working remotely. We are focused on building capabilities to support a variety of workstyles where individuals, teams, and our business can be successful. OPERATING SEGMENTS We operate our business and report our financial performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of resources within businesses. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 19 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business. Office Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises, and Office Consumer Services, including Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive. LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, Sales Solutions, and Learning Solutions. Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Customer Insights, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications. 10 PART I Item 1 Office Commercial Office Commercial is designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add value to our core product and service offerings to span productivity categories such as communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365. Office Consumer Office Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity through a range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our core product set, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into new markets. Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions. Office Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and storage through Skype, Outlook.com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes. LinkedIn LinkedIn connects the worlds professionals to make them more productive and successful and transforms the way companies hire, market, sell, and learn. Our vision is to create economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce through the ongoing development of the worlds first Economic Graph, a digital representation of the global economy. In addition to LinkedIns free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, Sales Solutions, and Learning Solutions. Talent Solutions provide insights for workforce planning and tools to hire, nurture, and develop talent. Marketing Solutions help companies reach, engage, and convert their audiences at scale. Premium Subscriptions enables professionals to manage their professional identity, grow their network, and connect with talent through additional services like premium search. Sales Solutions help companies strengthen customer relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and acquire new opportunities. Finally, Learning Solutions, including Glint, help businesses close critical skills gaps in times where companies are having to do more with existing talent. LinkedIn has over 750 million members and has offices around the globe. Growth will depend on our ability to increase the number of LinkedIn members and our ability to continue offering services that provide value for our members and increase their engagement. LinkedIn revenue is mainly affected by demand from enterprises and professional organizations for subscriptions to Talent Solutions , Learning Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions offerings, as well as member engagement and the quality of the sponsored content delivered to those members to drive Marketing Solutions. Dynamics Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial management, enterprise resource planning (ERP), customer relationship management (CRM), supply chain management, and other application development platforms for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent business applications, including Power Apps and Power Automate. 11 PART I Item 1 Competition Competitors to Office include software and global application vendors, such as Apple, Cisco Systems, Facebook, Google, IBM, Okta, Proofpoint, Slack, Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors as well as local application developers. Apple distributes versions of its pre-installed application software, such as email and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Cisco Systems is using its position in enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Slack provides teamwork and collaboration software. Zoom offers videoconferencing and cloud phone solutions. Skype for Business and Skype also compete with a variety of instant messaging, voice, and video communication providers, ranging from start-ups to established enterprises. Okta, Proofpoint, and Symantec provide security solutions across email security, information protection, identity, and governance. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned themselves as alternatives to our products and services. We compete by providing powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-premises or in the cloud. LinkedIn faces competition from online professional networks, recruiting companies, talent management companies, and larger companies that are focusing on talent management and human resource services; job boards; traditional recruiting firms; and companies that provide learning and development products and services. Marketing Solutions competes with online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers, and Sales Solutions competes with online and offline outlets for companies with lead generation and customer intelligence and insights. Dynamics competes with cloud-based and on-premises business solution providers such as Oracle, Salesforce.com, and SAP. Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and developers. This segment primarily comprises: Server products and cloud services, including Azure; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs); and GitHub. Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server Products and Cloud Services Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device. Customers can use Azure through our global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web application services, AI, IoT, cognitive services, and machine learning. Azure enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services, and per user-based services such as Enterprise Mobility + Security. Our server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. GitHub provides a collaboration platform and code hosting service for developers. Server products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to original equipment manufacturers (OEM), and retail packaged products. CALs provide access rights to certain server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue is reported along with the associated server product. Enterprise Services Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions and provide training and certification to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products. 12 PART I Item 1 Competition Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, VMware, and open source offerings. Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors. Azures competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. We believe our clouds global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our customers and differentiates us from the competition. Our server products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux. We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client-server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java vendors. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other companies, and also against open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails. We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Our Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies. More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology. This segment primarily comprises: Windows, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows OEM) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings; patent licensing; Windows IoT; and MSN advertising. Devices, including Surface and PC accessories. Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising digital transactions, Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, video games, third-party video game royalties, cloud services, and advertising. Search advertising. 13 PART I Item 1 Windows The Windows operating system is designed to deliver a more personal computing experience for users by enabling consistency of experience, applications, and information across their devices. Windows OEM revenue is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by: The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size. Differences in device market demand between developed markets and growth markets. Attachment of Windows to devices shipped. Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and large enterprises. Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel. Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed. Constraints in the supply chain of device components. Piracy. Windows Commercial revenue, which includes volume licensing of the Windows operating system and Windows cloud services such as Microsoft Defender Advanced Threat Protection, is affected mainly by the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and Software Assurance (SA), as well as advanced security offerings. Windows Commercial revenue often reflects the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise and is relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. Patent licensing includes our programs to license patents we own for use across a broad array of technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud offerings. Windows IoT extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services for use in embedded devices. MSN advertising includes both native and display ads. Devices We design and sell devices, including Surface and PC accessories. Our devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services. Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers be more productive. Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the ability to attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories. Gaming Our gaming platform is designed to provide a variety of entertainment through a unique combination of content, community, and cloud. Our exclusive game content is created through Xbox Game Studios, a collection of first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming experiences. We continue to invest in new gaming studios and content to expand our IP roadmap and leverage new content creators. These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass, a subscription service and gaming community with access to a curated library of over 100 first- and third-party console and PC titles. The gamer remains at the heart of the Xbox ecosystem. We continue to open new opportunities for gamers to engage both on- and off-console with both the launch of Xbox Cloud Gaming, our game streaming service, and continued investment in gaming hardware. Xbox Cloud Gaming utilizes Microsofts Azure cloud technology to allow direct and on-demand streaming of games to PCs, consoles, and mobile devices, enabling gamers to take their favorites games with them and play on the device most convenient to them. 14 PART I Item 1 Xbox enables people to connect and share online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Xbox is designed to benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base. Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of first- and third-party content, as well as advertising. Growth of our Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to access our content and services, and the ability to create new experiences through first-party content creators. Search Advertising Our Search business, including Bing and Microsoft Advertising, is designed to deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience. We have several partnerships with other companies, including Verizon Media Group, through which we provide and monetize search queries. Growth depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. Competition Windows faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity. Devices face competition from various computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers who offer a unique combination of high-quality industrial design and innovative technologies across various price points. These manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and customers, include Apple and our Windows OEMs. Xbox and our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, and Tencent. We also compete with other providers of entertainment services such as video streaming platforms. Our gaming platform competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large, established base of customers. We believe our gaming platform is effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own first-party game franchises as well as other digital content offerings. Our search business competes with Google and a wide array of websites, social platforms like Facebook, and portals that provide content and online offerings to end users. OPERATIONS We have operations centers that support operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operations centers, we also operate datacenters throughout the Americas, Europe, Australia, and Asia, as well as in the Middle East and Africa. To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in international markets, we localize many of our products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For the majority of our products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. However, some of our products contain certain components for which there are very few qualified suppliers. For these components, we have limited near-term flexibility to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or is unable to meet our requirements. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could lead to a similar disruption in our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. 15 PART I Item 1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Product and Service Development, and Intellectual Property We develop most of our products and services internally through the following engineering groups. Cloud and AI , focuses on making IT professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient through development of cloud infrastructure, server, database, CRM, ERP, management and development tools, AI cognitive services, and other business process applications and services for enterprises. Experiences and Devices , focuses on instilling a unifying product ethos across our end-user experiences and devices, including Office, Windows, Enterprise Mobility + Security, and Surface. AI and Research , focuses on our AI innovations and other forward-looking research and development efforts spanning infrastructure, services, applications, and search. LinkedIn , focuses on our services that transform the way customers hire, market, sell, and learn. Gaming , focuses on developing hardware, content, and services across a large range of platforms to help grow our user base through game experiences and social interaction. Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software and hardware design. Before releasing new software platforms, and as we make significant modifications to existing platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create product documentation internally. We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over 65,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over 21,000 pending worldwide. While we employ much of our internally-developed intellectual property exclusively in our products and services, we also engage in outbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We may also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, supporting societal and/or environmental efforts, or attracting and enabling our external development community. Our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products, services, and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products. Investing in the Future Our success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the Company. Based on our assessment of key technology trends, we maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, and operating systems. While our main product research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the U.S. and around the world. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent from across the world. 16 PART I Item 1 In addition to our main research and development operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the worlds largest corporate research organizations and works in close collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art in computer science and a broad range of other disciplines, providing us a unique perspective on future trends and contributing to our innovation. We generally fund research at the corporate level to ensure that we are looking beyond immediate product considerations to opportunities further in the future. We also fund research and development activities at the operating segment level. Much of our segment level research and development is coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the Company. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and development efforts. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING We market and distribute our products and services through the following channels: OEMs, direct, and distributors and resellers. Our sales force performs a variety of functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; managing OEM relationships; and supporting system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services. OEMs We distribute our products and services through OEMs that pre-install our software on new devices and servers they sell. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on devices. OEMs also sell devices pre-installed with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as Office and the capability to subscribe to Office 365. There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest category of OEMs are direct OEMs as our relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Lenovo, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs are system builders consisting of lower-volume PC manufacturers, which source Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. Direct Many organizations that license our products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors or ESA). Microsoft offers direct sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those offered through the reseller channel. A large network of partner advisors support many of these sales. We also sell commercial and consumer products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores. In fiscal year 2021, we closed our Microsoft Store physical locations and opened our Microsoft Experience Centers. Microsoft Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with our partners and customers across industries. Distributors and Resellers Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution partners (LSP), distributors, value-added resellers (VAR), and retailers. Although each type of reselling partner may reach organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other volume licensing programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner program for reselling cloud services. 17 PART I Item 1 We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets. We distribute our devices through third-party retailers. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers, and provide product training and sales support. Our Dynamics business solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. LICENSING OPTIONS We offer options for organizations that want to purchase our cloud services, on-premises software, and SA. We license software to organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels. We use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below. SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over the contract period. It also provides support, tools, training, and other licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. SA is included with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase with others. Volume Licensing Programs Enterprise Agreement Enterprise Agreements offer large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement. Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software organization-wide over a three-year period. Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is included. Microsoft Product and Services Agreement Microsoft Product and Services Agreements are designed for medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses. SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses. Open Open agreements are a simple, cost-effective way to acquire the latest Microsoft technology. Open agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software over a one- to three-year period. Under the Open agreements, organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional. Under Open Value agreements, organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is included. 18 PART I Item 1 Select Plus Select Plus agreements are designed for government and academic organizations to acquire on-premises licenses at any affiliate or department level, while realizing advantages as one organization. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional. Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement Microsoft Online Subscription Agreements are designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. The agreement allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. Partner Programs The Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner. Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions. The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software products to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed monthly based on consumption. The Independent Software Vendor Royalty program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their end users. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant. 19 PART I Item 1 INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIV E OFFICERS Our executive officers as of July 29, 2021 were as follows: Name Age Position with the Company Satya Nadella 53 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Judson Althoff 48 Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer Christopher C. Capossela 51 Executive Vice President, Marketing and Consumer Business, and Chief Marketing Officer Kathleen T. Hogan 55 Executive Vice President, Human Resources Amy E. Hood 49 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Bradford L. Smith 62 President and Chief Legal Officer Christopher D. Young 49 Executive Vice President, Business Development, Strategy, and Ventures Mr. Nadella was appointed Chairman of the Board in June 2021 and Chief Executive Officer in February 2014. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise from July 2013 until that time. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Nadellas roles also included Vice President of the Business Division. Mr. Nadella also serves on the Board of Directors of Starbucks Corporation. Mr. Althoff was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer in July 2021. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Commercial Business from July 2017 until that time. Prior to that, Mr. Althoff served as the President of Microsoft North America. Mr. Althoff joined Microsoft in March 2013 as President of Microsoft North America. Mr. Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Marketing and Consumer Business, and Chief Marketing Officer in July 2016. He had served as Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since March 2014. Previously, he served as the worldwide leader of the Consumer Channels Group, responsible for sales and marketing activities with OEMs, operators, and retail partners. In his more than 28 years at Microsoft, Mr. Capossela has held a variety of marketing leadership roles in the Microsoft Office Division. He was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including Microsoft Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, Skype for Business, Project, and Visio. Ms. Hogan was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources in November 2014. Prior to that Ms. Hogan was Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Services. She also served as Corporate Vice President of Customer Service and Support. Ms. Hogan joined Microsoft in 2003. Ms. Hogan also serves on the Board of Directors of Alaska Air Group, Inc. Ms. Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2013, subsequent to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer in May 2013. From 2010 to 2013, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the Microsoft Business Division. From 2006 through 2009, Ms. Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also held finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. Ms. Hood also serves on the Board of Directors of 3M Corporation. Mr. Smith was appointed President and Chief Legal Officer in September 2015. He served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from 2011 to 2015, and served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary from 2001 to 2011. Mr. Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer in 2002. Since joining Microsoft in 1993, he was Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith also serves on the Board of Directors of Netflix, Inc. Mr. Young joined Microsoft in November 2020 as Executive Vice President, Business Development, Strategy, and Ventures. Prior to Microsoft, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of McAfee, LLC from 2017 to 2020, and served as a Senior Vice President and General Manager of Intel Security Group from 2014 until 2017, when he led the initiative to spin out McAfee into a standalone company. Mr. Young also serves on the Board of Directors of American Express Company. 20 PART I Item 1 AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including: Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) at www.sec.gov. Information on our business strategies, financial results, and metrics for investors. Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives of these events are also available. Press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news. Corporate governance information including our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate social responsibility initiatives, and other governance-related policies. Other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting. Opportunities to sign up for email alerts to have information pushed in real time. We publish a variety of reports and resources related to our Corporate Social Responsibility programs and progress on our Reports hub website, www.microsoft.com/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on sustainability, responsible sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy engagement. The information found on these websites is not part of, or incorporated by reference into, this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition to these channels, we use social media to communicate to the public. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Microsoft to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our Investor Relations website. 21 PART I Item 1A ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. STRATEGIC AND COMPETITIVE RISKS We face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. Competition in the technology sector Our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. Competition among platform-based ecosystems An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms. A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces. They may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer. We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services. To the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on PCs. We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our PC operating system platforms. Competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our PC operating system margins. Popular products or services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. In addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. Competing platforms have content and application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. The variety and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to device purchasing decisions. Users may incur costs to move data and buy new content and applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. Efforts to compete with competitors content and application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. Competitors rules governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability to distribute products and services through them in accordance with our technical and business model objectives. 22 PART I Item 1A Business model competition Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. Even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue. We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. Some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source software at little or no cost to end users, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the open source software. Some open source software mimics the features and functionality of our products. The competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. This may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents execution and competitive risks. A growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. Our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence (AI). At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the users choice of which cloud-based services to use. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. We embrace cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. Our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge worldview is connected with the growth of the Internet of Things (IoT). Our success in the IoT will depend on the level of adoption of our offerings such as Azure, Azure Stack, Azure IoT Edge, and Azure Sphere. We may not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to achieve our business objectives. Besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share. Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other IoT endpoints. Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers. Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs. Making our suite of cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. If we are not effective in executing organizational and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. 23 PART I Item 1A RISKS RELATING TO THE EVOLUTION OF OUR BUSINESS We make significant investments in products and services that may not achieve expected returns. We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, Microsoft 365, Office, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server, Azure, Office 365, Xbox, LinkedIn, and other products and services. We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. We may not get engagement in certain features, like Edge and Bing, that drive post-sale monetization opportunities. Our data handling practices across our products and services will continue to be under scrutiny and perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or product experiences, which could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design, and product quality. Developing new technologies is complex. It can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. We expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. For example, in October 2018 we completed our acquisition of GitHub, Inc. (GitHub) for $7.5 billion, in March 2021 we completed our acquisition of ZeniMax Media Inc. for $8.1 billion, and in April 2021 we announced a definitive agreement to acquire Nuance Communications, Inc. for $19.7 billion. These acquisitions and other transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, that they distract management from our other businesses, or that announced transactions may not be completed. If an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. The success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and arrangements such as increased revenue or enhanced efficiencies, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. These events could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. We have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to record, a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. 24 PART I Item 1A CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY, AND PLATFORM ABUSE RISKS Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Security of our information technology Threats to IT security can take a variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our IT. These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other actions to gain access to our data or our users or customers data, or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Nation state and state sponsored actors can deploy significant resources to plan and carry out exploits. Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access to confidential data. For example, system administrators may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate. Employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users security or systems or reveal confidential information. Malicious actors may employ the IT supply chain to introduce malware through software updates or compromised supplier accounts or hardware. Cyberthreats are constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex, increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. We may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. Cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. Breaches of our facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improve technologies or remediate the impacts of attacks, or otherwise adversely affect our business. The cyberattacks uncovered in late 2020 known as Solorigate or Nobelium are an example of a supply chain attack where malware was introduced to a software providers customers, including us, through software updates. The attackers were later able to create false credentials that appeared legitimate to certain customers systems. We may be targets of further attacks similar to Solorigate/Nobelium as both a supplier and consumer of IT. In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve. Often, we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. 25 PART I Item 1A Security of our products, services, devices, and customers data The security of our products and services is important in our customers decisions to purchase or use our products or services across cloud and on-premises environments. Security threats are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing technology products and services to others. Threats to our own IT infrastructure can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. Adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. In addition, adversaries can attack our customers on-premises or cloud environments, sometimes exploiting previously unknown (zero day) vulnerabilities, such as occurred in early calendar year 2021 with several of our Exchange Server on-premises products. Vulnerabilities in these or any product can persist even after we have issued security patches if customers have not installed the most recent updates, or if the attackers exploited the vulnerabilities before patching to install additional malware to further compromise customers systems. Adversaries will continue to attack customers using our cloud services as customers embrace digital transformation. Adversaries that acquire user account information can use that information to compromise our users accounts, including where accounts share the same attributes as passwords. Inadequate account security practices may also result in unauthorized access, and user activity may result in ransomware or other malicious software impacting a customers use of our products or services. We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products susceptible to cyberattacks. Our customers operate complex IT systems with third-party hardware and software from multiple vendors that may include systems acquired over many years. They expect our products and services to support all these systems and products, including those that no longer incorporate the strongest current security advances or standards. As a result, we may not be able to discontinue support in our services for a product, service, standard, or feature solely because a more secure alternative is available. Failure to utilize the most current security advances and standards can increase our customers vulnerability to attack. Further, customers of widely varied size and technical sophistication use our technology, and consequently may have limited capabilities and resources to help them adopt and implement state of the art cybersecurity practices and technologies. In addition, we must account for this wide variation of technical sophistication when defining default settings for our products and services, including security default settings, as these settings may limit or otherwise impact other aspects of IT operations and some customers may have limited capability to review and reset these defaults. The Solorigate/Nobelium or similar cyberattacks may adversely impact our customers even if our production services are not directly compromised. We are committed to notifying our customers whose systems have been impacted as we become aware and have available information and actions for customers to help protect themselves. We are also committed to providing guidance and support on detection, tracking, and remediation. We may not be able to detect the existence or extent of these attacks for all of our customers or have information on how to detect or track an attack, especially where an attack involves on-premises software such as Exchange Server where we may have no or limited visibility into our customers computing environments. Development and deployment of defensive measures To defend against security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide security tools such as firewalls, anti-virus software, and advanced security and information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing so. Customers in certain industries such as financial services, health care, and government may have enhanced or specialized requirements to which we must engineer our product and services. 26 PART I Item 1A The cost of measures to protect products and customer-facing services could reduce our operating margins. If we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. Customers, and third parties granted access to their systems, may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches, or may otherwise fail to adopt adequate security practices. Any of these could adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. Our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. At times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability exposure to customers. Our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem of third parties. If there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Disclosure and misuse of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. As we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers and users. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and third parties on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user data we or our vendors store and manage. In addition, third parties who have limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized ways. Improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. Government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or user data in response to valid legal orders. In the U.S. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures we may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses or hinder growth of our products and services. We may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by others . LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures. In certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or use of this information. Changes in the law or interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services. Abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement. Advertising, professional, and social platform abuses For platform products and services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third parties, including GitHub, LinkedIn, Microsoft Advertising, MSN, and Xbox, our reputation or user engagement may be negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate. This activity may come from users impersonating other people or organizations, use of our products or services to spread terrorist or violent extremist content or to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or the use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise for objectionable or illegal ends. Preventing or responding to these actions may require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. 27 PART I Item 1A Digital safety and service misuse Our hosted consumer services as well as our enterprise services may be used by third parties to disseminate harmful or illegal content in violation of our terms or applicable law. We may not proactively discover such content due to scale and the limitations of existing technologies, and when discovered by users, such content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user engagement. Regulations and other initiatives to make platforms responsible for preventing or eliminating harmful content online are gaining momentum and we expect this to continue. We may be subject to enhanced regulatory oversight, civil or criminal liability, or reputational damage if we fail to comply with content moderation regulations, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial statements. The development of the IoT presents security, privacy, and execution risks. To support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, we are developing products, services, and technologies to power the IoT, a network of distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and computing capabilities including AI. The IoTs great potential also carries substantial risks. IoT products and services may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation that make them insecure or ineffective for their intended purposes. An IoT solution has multiple layers of hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we may not develop or control. Each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the security of the whole system. Many IoT devices have limited interfaces and ability to be updated or patched. IoT solutions may collect large amounts of data, and our handling of IoT data may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements. IoT scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety. If IoT solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions. These risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation or brands, or negatively impact our revenues or margins. Issues in the use of AI in our offerings may result in reputational harm or liability . We are building AI into many of our offerings and we expect this element of our business to grow. We envision a future in which AI operating in our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work and personal lives. As with many disruptive innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms may be flawed. Datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by Microsoft or others could impair the acceptance of AI solutions. These deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, or analysis AI applications produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Some AI scenarios present ethical issues. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. OPERATIONAL RISKS We may have excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as Bing, Azure, Microsoft Account services, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Teams, Dynamics 365, OneDrive, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox, and Outlook.com. We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex, and requires development of principles for datacenter builds in geographies with higher safety risks. It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, insufficient Internet connectivity, or inadequate storage and compute capacity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. We may experience quality or supply problems. Our hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. 28 PART I Item 1A Our software products and services also may experience quality or reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Our customers increasingly rely on us for critical business functions and multiple workloads. Many of our products and services are interdependent with one another. Each of these circumstances potentially magnifies the impact of quality or reliability issues. Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. We acquire some device and datacenter components from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. If a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory changes that restrict supply sources, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter capacity. Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. Xbox consoles, Surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply to any other hardware and software products we may offer. LEGAL, REGULATORY, AND LITIGATION RISKS Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. As a leading global software and device maker, government agencies closely scrutinize us under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations, and this includes scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the European Union (EU), the U.S., and China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. U.S. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. The European Commission (the Commission) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. Flagship product releases such as Windows can receive significant scrutiny under competition laws. For example, in 2004, the Commission ordered us to create new versions of our Windows operating system that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products. In 2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments we offered to address the Commissions concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address Commission concerns relating to interoperability. The web browsing commitments expired in 2014. The remaining obligations may limit our ability to innovate in Windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. Our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM partners offer a large variety of devices for our platforms. As a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. Regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly in China and other countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. Government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may result in fines or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. New competition law actions could be initiated, potentially using previous actions as precedent. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: We may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. 29 PART I Item 1A We may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. We are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees, or other voluntary actions we have taken. If we fail to comply with these commitments, we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. Our ability to realize anticipated Windows post-sale monetization opportunities may be limited. Our global operations subject us to potential consequences under anti-corruption, trade, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents, and the accounting provisions of the FCPA require us to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal controls. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere which may be based on reports from employees and others about our business activities outside the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. Periodically, we receive such reports directly and investigate them. On July 22, 2019, our Hungarian subsidiary entered into a non-prosecution agreement (NPA) with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and we agreed to the terms of a cease and desist order with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These agreements required us to pay $25.3 million in monetary penalties, disgorgement, and interest pertaining to activities at Microsofts subsidiary in Hungary. The NPA, which has a three-year term, also contains certain ongoing compliance requirements, including the obligations to disclose to the DOJ issues that may implicate the FCPA and to cooperate in any inquiries. Most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce competition between themselves. While we devote substantial resources to our U.S. and international compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws or competition laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Increasing trade laws, policies, sanctions, and other regulatory requirements also affect our operations in and outside the U.S. relating to trade and investment. Economic sanctions in the U.S., the EU, and other countries prohibit most business with restricted entities or countries such as Crimea, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, and Syria. U.S. export controls restrict Microsoft from offering many of its products and services to, or making investments in, certain entities in specified countries. U.S. import controls restrict us from integrating certain information and communication technologies into our supply chain and allow for government review of transactions involving information and communications technology from countries determined to be foreign adversaries. Non-compliance could result in reputational harm, operational delays, monetary fines, loss of export privileges, or criminal sanctions. Other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include requirements related to user privacy, telecommunications, data storage and protection, advertising, and online content. For example, some regulators are taking the position that our offerings such as Microsoft Teams and Skype are covered by existing laws regulating telecommunications services, and some new laws, including EU Member State laws under the European Electronic Communications Code, are defining more of our services as regulated telecommunications services. This trend may continue and will result in these offerings being subjected to additional data protection, security, and law enforcement surveillance obligations. Regulators may assert that our collection, use, and management of customer and other data is inconsistent with their laws and regulations. Legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services. Legislative and regulatory action is emerging in the areas of AI and content moderation, which could increase costs or restrict opportunity. Applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Additionally, these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. We strive to empower all people and organizations to achieve more, and accessibility of our products is an important aspect of this goal. There is increasing pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, customers, and other stakeholders to make technology more accessible. If our products do not meet customer expectations or global accessibility requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory or legal actions. 30 PART I Item 1A Laws and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us, or reputational damage . The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. For example, in July 2020 the Court of Justice of the EU invalidated a framework called Privacy Shield for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the United States. This ruling has led to uncertainty about the legal requirements for data transfers from the EU under other l egal mechanisms. Potential new rules and restrictions on the flow of data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services in some markets. In May 2018, the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), became effective. The law, which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services offered in the EU, imposes a range of compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. Engineering efforts to build and maintain capabilities to facilitate compliance with the law have entailed substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other projects and may continue to do so. We might experience reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under the GDPR or other data regulations, or if our implementation to comply with the GDPR make s our offerings less attractive. The GDPR imposes significant new obligations and compliance with these obligations depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. If we fail to comply with the GDPR, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with the GDPR, it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, reputational damage , and loss of customers . Countries around the world, and states in the U.S . such as California , Colorado, and Virginia , ha ve adopted, or are considering adopting or expanding , laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the handling of personal data. The Companys investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services we deliver to customers, to our operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, customer perceptions of quality, and operational efficiency. Our ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this investment. Ongoing legal analyses, reviews, and inquiries by regulators of Microsoft practices, or relevant practices of other organizations, may result in burdensome or inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization requirements, affecting the location, movement, collection, and use of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Compliance with data regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in some jurisdictions where we operate. Failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity, as well as negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. These claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major new product releases such as Windows, significant business transactions, warranty or product claims, and employment practices. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. Our business with government customers may present additional uncertainties. We derive substantial revenue from government contracts. Government contracts generally can present risks and challenges not present in private commercial agreements. For instance, we may be subject to government audits and investigations relating to these contracts, we could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be rescinded. Some agreements may allow a government to terminate without cause and provide for higher liability limits for certain losses. Some contracts may be subject to periodic funding approval, reductions, or delays which could adversely impact public-sector demand for our products and services. These events could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition, and reputation. 31 PART I Item 1A We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, compliance with the 2017 United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) and possible future legislative changes may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the Company, the use of estimates in our consolidated financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. As regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the TCJA or possible future legislative changes , and as we gather more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. Although we believe that our provision for income taxes and our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken. In addition, economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult. We are currently under Internal Revenue Service audit for prior tax years, with the primary unresolved issues relating to transfer pricing. The final resolution of those audits, and other audits or litigation, may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that determination is made. We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S. A change in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the Company. In addition, changes in U.S. federal and state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including in the U.S., and changes in taxing jurisdictions administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. If our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. It may then become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described elsewhere in these risk factors. Legal changes, our evolving business model, piracy, and other factors may decrease the value of our intellectual property. Protecting our intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. While piracy adversely affects U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is more significant, particularly countries in which the legal system provides less protection for intellectual property rights. Our revenue in these markets may grow more slowly than the underlying device market. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, we educate users about the benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. We expend significant resources to patent the intellectual property we create with the expectation that we will generate revenues by incorporating that intellectual property in our products or services or, in some instances, by licensing or cross-licensing our patents to others in return for a royalty and/or increased freedom to operate. Changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents. These include legislative changes and regulatory actions that make it more difficult to obtain injunctions, and the increasing use of legal process to challenge issued patents. Similarly, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to pay us royalties or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations. The royalties we can obtain to monetize our intellectual property may decline because of the evolution of technology, price changes in products using licensed patents, greater value from cross-licensing, or the difficulty of discovering infringements. Finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations and may negatively impact revenue. 32 PART I Item 1A Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. From time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as Surface. To resolve these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. Besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. We have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. GENERAL RISKS If our reputation or our brands are damaged, our business and operating results may be harmed . Our reputation and brands are globally recognized and are important to our business. Our reputation and brands affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector customers. There are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged. These include product safety or quality issues, or our environmental impact and sustainability, supply chain practices, or human rights record. We may experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups, employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering decisions or public policy positions. Damage to our reputation or our brands may occur from, among other things: The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like. Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data practices, or content. Data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees. The proliferation of social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. If our brands or reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our revenues or margins, or ability to attract the most highly qualified employees. Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, pandemic, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely affect our revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. Our product distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.S. government securities. If global financial markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced a decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. 33 PART I Item 1A Catastrophic events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are seismically active regions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or IT systems, or the infrastructure or systems they rely on, such as power grids, could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages in our consolidated financial statements. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers. Geopolitical change may result in changing regulatory systems and requirements and market interventions that could impact our operating strategies, access to national, regional, and global markets, hiring, and profitability. Geopolitical instability may lead to sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some public-sector customers. Any of these changes may negatively impact our revenues. The occurrence of regional epidemics or a global pandemic may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Federal and state governments have implemented measures to contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, and vaccination programs. Even as efforts to contain the pandemic have made progress and some restrictions have relaxed, new variants of the virus are causing additional outbreaks. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our business operations, including our employees, customers, partners, and communities, and there is substantial uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business going forward will depend on numerous evolving factors we cannot reliably predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the pandemic; and the impact on economic activity including the possibility of recession or financial market instability. These factors may adversely impact consumer, business, and government spending on technology as well as customers' ability to pay for our products and services on an ongoing basis. This uncertainty also affects managements accounting estimates and assumptions, which could result in greater variability in a variety of areas that depend on these estimates and assumptions, including investments, receivables, and forward-looking guidance. Measures to contain the virus that impact us, our partners, distributors, and suppliers may further intensify these impacts and other risks described in these Risk Factors. Any of these may adversely impact our ability to: Maintain our operations infrastructure, including the reliability and adequate capacity of cloud services. Satisfy our contractual and regulatory compliance obligations as we adapt to changing usage patterns, such as through datacenter load balancing. Ensure a high-quality and consistent supply chain and manufacturing operations for our hardware devices and datacenter operations. Effectively manage our international operations through changes in trade practices and policies. Hire and deploy people where we most need them. Sustain the effectiveness and productivity of our operations including our sales, marketing, engineering, and distribution functions. We may incur increased costs to effectively manage these aspects of our business. If we are unsuccessful it may adversely impact our revenues, cash flows, market share growth, and reputation. 34 PART I Item 1A The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and the IT industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy or other resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in climate where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. Our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. Our customers are located throughout the world and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The global nature of our business creates operational, economic, and geopolitical risks. Our results of operations may be affected by global, regional, and local economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, as well as political and military disputes. In addition, our international growth strategy includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Emerging nationalist and protectionist trends and concerns about human rights and political expression in specific countries may significantly alter the trade and commercial environments. Changes to trade policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, and non-local sourcing restrictions, export controls, investment restrictions, or other developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign countries. Disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could negatively impact demand for our products and services or increase operating costs. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. Maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse and inclusive work environment that enables all our employees to thrive, are important to our ability to recruit and retain employees. We are also limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. Changes to U.S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. How employment-related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. 35 PART I Item 1B, 2, 3, 4 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2021 that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Redmond, Washington. We have approximately 15 million square feet of space located in King County, Washington that is used for engineering, sales, marketing, and operations, among other general and administrative purposes. These facilities include approximately 10 million square feet of owned space situated on approximately 520 acres of land we own at our corporate headquarters, and approximately 5 million square feet of space we lease. In addition, we own and lease space domestically that includes office and datacenter space. We also own and lease facilities internationally for datacenters, research and development, and other operations. The largest owned properties include space in the following locations: China, India, Ireland, the Netherlands, Singapore, and South Korea. The largest leased properties include space in the following locations: Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. In addition to the above locations, we have various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, as described under Research and Development (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K). The table below shows a summary of the square footage of our office, datacenter, and other facilities owned and leased domestically and internationally as of June 30, 2021: (Square feet in millions) Location Owned Leased Total U.S. 22 17 39 International 9 19 28 Total 31 36 67 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS While not material to the Company, the Company was required to make annual reports of the general activities of the Companys Antitrust Compliance Office as required by the Final Order and Judgment in Barovic v. Ballmer et al, United States District Court for the Western District of Washington (Final Order). For more information see http://aka.ms/MSLegalNotice2015 . The Final Order expired in April of 2021. During fiscal year 2021, the Antitrust Compliance Office (a) monitored the Companys compliance with the European Commission Decision of March 24, 2004, (2004 Decision) and with the Companys Public Undertaking to the European Commission dated December 16, 2009 (2009 Undertaking); (b) monitored, in the manner required by the Final Order, employee, customer, competitor, regulator, or other third-party complaints regarding compliance with the 2004 Decision, the 2009 Undertaking, or other EU or U.S. laws or regulations governing tying, bundling, and exclusive dealing contracts; and, (c) monitored, in the manner required by the Final Order, the training of the Companys employees regarding the Companys antitrust compliance polices. In addition, prior to expiration of the Final Order, the Antitrust Compliance Officer reported to the Regulatory and Public Policy Committee of the Board at each of its regularly scheduled meetings. Refer to Note 15 Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 36 PART II Item 5 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. On July 26, 2021, there were 89,291 registered holders of record of our common stock. SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS Following are our monthly share repurchases for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (In millions) April 1, 2021 April 30, 2021 7,493,732 $ 255.23 7,493,732 $ 13,030 May 1, 2021 May 31, 2021 8,823,524 247.36 8,823,524 10,847 June 1, 2021 June 30, 2021 8,155,857 258.07 8,155,857 8,742 24,473,113 24,473,113 All share repurchases were made using cash resources. Our share repurchases may occur through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock awards. Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021: Declaration Date Record Date Payment Date Dividend Per Share Amount (In millions) June 16, 2021 August 19, 2021 September 9, 2021 $ 0.56 $ 4,211 We returned $10.4 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. Refer to Note 16 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion regarding share repurchases and dividends. 37 PART II Item 6 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 38 PART II Item 7 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended June 30, 2021 compared to the year ended June 30, 2020. For a discussion of the year ended June 30, 2020 compared to the year ended June 30, 2019, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2020. OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; designing, manufacturing, and selling devices; and delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes. As the world continues to respond to COVID-19, we are working to do our part by ensuring the safety of our employees, striving to protect the health and well-being of the communities in which we operate, and providing technology and resources to our customers to help them do their best work while remote. Highlights from fiscal year 2021 compared with fiscal year 2020 included: Commercial cloud revenue increased 34% to $69.1 billion. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 13% driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 22%. Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 10% and Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers increased to 51.9 million. LinkedIn revenue increased 27%. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 25% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 43%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 27% driven by Azure growth of 50%. Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (Windows OEM) revenue increased slightly. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14%. Xbox content and services revenue increased 23%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 13%. Surface revenue increased 5%. On March 9, 2021, we completed our acquisition of ZeniMax Media Inc. (ZeniMax), the parent company of Bethesda Softworks LLC, for a total purchase price of $8.1 billion, consisting primarily of cash. The purchase price included $768 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired. The financial results of ZeniMax have been included in our consolidated financial statements since the date of the acquisition. ZeniMax is reported as part of our More Personal Computing segment. Refer to Note 8 Business Combinations of the Notes to Financial Statements ( Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K ) for further discussion. 39 PART II Item 7 Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers, some of which contain certain components for which there are very few qualified suppliers. For these components, we have limited near-term flexibility to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or is unable to meet our requirements. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could lead to a similar disruption in our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Weakening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies increased reported revenue and did not have a material impact on reported expenses from our international operations in fiscal year 2021. Refer to Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. COVID-19 In fiscal year 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to impact our business operations and financial results. Cloud usage and demand benefited as customers accelerate their digital transformation priorities. Our consumer businesses also benefited from the remote environment, with continued demand for PCs and productivity tools, as well as strong engagement across our Gaming platform. We saw improvement in customer advertising spend and savings in operating expenses related to COVID-19, but experienced weakness in transactional licensing. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to impact our business operations and financial operating results, and there is uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. Refer to Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Seasonality Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the second and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Second quarter revenue is driven by corporate year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers, and fourth quarter revenue is driven by the volume of multi-year on-premises contracts executed during the period. 40 PART II Item 7 Change in Accounting Estimate In July 2020, we completed an assessment of the useful lives of our server and network equipment and determined we should increase the estimated useful life of server equipment from three years to four years and increase the estimated useful life of network equipment from two years to four years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal year 2021. Based on the carrying amount of server and network equipment included in property and equipment, net as of June 30, 2020, the effect of this change in estimate for fiscal year 2021 was an increase in operating income of $2.7 billion and net income of $2.3 billion, or $0.30 per both basic and diluted share. Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 19 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Metrics We use metrics in assessing the performance of our business and to make informed decisions regarding the allocation of resources. We disclose metrics to enable investors to evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution of our products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based on how customers use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Financial metrics are calculated based on GAAP results and growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last fiscal year. Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise Services, and Dynamics. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the overall health of our commercial business and include leading indicators of future performance. Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods Commercial cloud revenue Revenue from our commercial cloud business, which includes Azure, Office 365 Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Dynamics 365, and other commercial cloud properties Commercial cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our commercial cloud business 41 PART II Item 7 Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The metrics reflect our cloud and on-premises product strategies and trends. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Commercial products and cloud services (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, and Skype for Business Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Office Consumer products and cloud services, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions and Office licensed on-premises Office 365 Commercial seat growth The number of Office 365 Commercial seats at end of period where seats are paid users covered by an Office 365 Commercial subscription Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers The number of Microsoft 365 Consumer (formerly Office 365 Consumer) subscribers at end of period Dynamics products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Dynamics products and cloud services, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Customer Insights, Power Apps, and Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications LinkedIn revenue growth Revenue from LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, Sales Solutions, and Learning Solutions Server products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Server products and cloud services, including Azure; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs); and GitHub More Personal Computing Metrics related to our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance of key lines of business within this segment. These metrics provide strategic product insights which allow us to assess the performance across our commercial and consumer businesses. As we have diversity of target audiences and sales motions within the Windows business, we monitor metrics that are reflective of those varying motions. Windows OEM Pro revenue growth Revenue from sales of Windows Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel, which primarily addresses demand in the commercial market Windows OEM non-Pro revenue growth Revenue from sales of Windows non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel, which primarily addresses demand in the consumer market 42 PART II Item 7 Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Windows Commercial products and cloud services, comprising volume licensing of the Windows operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial offerings Surface revenue Revenue from Surface devices and accessories Xbox content and services revenue growth Revenue from Xbox content and services, comprising digital transactions, Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, video games, third-party video game royalties, cloud services, and advertising Search advertising revenue, excluding TAC, growth Revenue from search advertising excluding traffic acquisition costs (TAC) paid to Bing Ads network publishers SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) 2021 2020 Percentage Change Revenue $ 168,088 $ 143,015 18% Gross margin 115,856 96,937 20% Operating income 69,916 52,959 32% Net income 61,271 44,281 38% Diluted earnings per share 8.05 5.76 40% Adjusted net income (non-GAAP) 60,651 44,281 37% Adjusted diluted earnings per share (non-GAAP) 7.97 5.76 38% Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude tax benefits related to an India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes in fiscal year 2021 . Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for a reconciliation of our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. See Note 12 Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Revenue increased $25.1 billion or 18% driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Gaming. Cost of revenue increased $6.2 billion or 13% driven by growth in commercial cloud and Gaming, offset in part by a reduction in depreciation expense due to the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Gross margin increased $18.9 billion or 20% driven by growth across each of our segments and the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Gross margin percentage increased with the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Excluding this impact, gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by gross margin percentage reduction in More Personal Computing. Commercial cloud gross margin percentage increased 4 points to 71% driven by gross margin percentage improvement in Azure and the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure. Operating expenses increased $2.0 billion or 4% driven by investments in cloud engineering and commercial sales, offset in part by savings related to COVID-19 across each of our segments, prior year charges associated with the closing of our Microsoft Store physical locations, and a reduction in bad debt expense. Key changes in operating expenses were: Research and development expenses increased $1.4 billion or 8% driven by investments in cloud engineering. Sales and marketing expenses increased $519 million or 3% driven by investments in commercial sales, offset in part by a reduction in bad debt expense. Sales and marketing included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. General and administrative expenses were relatively unchanged, driven by prior year charges associated with the closing of our Microsoft Store physical locations, offset in part by an increase in certain employee-related expenses and business taxes. 43 PART II Item 7 Operating income increased $17.0 billion or 32% driven by growth across each of our segments and the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Current year net income and diluted EPS were positively impacted by the tax benefit related to the India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes, which resulted in an increase to net income and diluted EPS of $620 million and $0.08, respectively. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included a favorable foreign currency impact of 3%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) 2021 2020 Percentage Change Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 53,915 $ 46,398 16% Intelligent Cloud 60,080 48,366 24% More Personal Computing 54,093 48,251 12% Total $ 168,088 $ 143,015 18% Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 24,351 $ 18,724 30% Intelligent Cloud 26,126 18,324 43% More Personal Computing 19,439 15,911 22% Total $ 69,916 $ 52,959 32% Reportable Segments Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $7.5 billion or 16%. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $4.0 billion or 13%. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 22% driven by seat growth of 17% and higher revenue per user. Office Commercial products revenue declined 23% driven by continued customer shift to cloud offerings and transactional weakness. Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $474 million or 10% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer subscription revenue, on a strong prior year comparable that benefited from transactional strength in Japan. Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers increased 22% to 51.9 million. LinkedIn revenue increased $2.2 billion or 27% driven by advertising demand in our Marketing Solutions business. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 25% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 43%. Operating income increased $5.6 billion or 30%. Gross margin increased $6.5 billion or 18% driven by growth in Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn, and the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Gross margin percentage increased with the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Excluding this impact, gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by a sales mix shift to cloud offerings, on a low prior year comparable impacted by increased usage. Operating expenses increased $839 million or 5% driven by investments in commercial sales, cloud engineering, and LinkedIn. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. 44 PART II Item 7 Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $11.7 billion or 24%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $11.2 billion or 27% driven by Azure. Azure revenue grew 50% due to growth in our consumption-based services. Server products revenue increased 6% driven by hybrid and premium solutions, on a strong prior year comparable that benefited from demand related to SQL Server 2008 and Windows Server 2008 end of support. Enterprise Services revenue increased $534 million or 8% driven by growth in Premier Support Services. Operating income increased $7.8 billion or 43%. Gross margin increased $9.7 billion or 29% driven by growth in Azure and the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Gross margin percentage increased with the change in estimated useful lives of our server and network equipment. Excluding this impact, gross margin percentage was relatively unchanged driven by gross margin percentage improvement in Azure, offset in part by sales mix shift to Azure. Operating expenses increased $1.9 billion or 12% driven by investments in Azure. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $5.8 billion or 12%. Windows revenue increased $933 million or 4% driven by growth in Windows Commercial. Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 14% driven by demand for Microsoft 365. Windows OEM revenue increased slightly driven by consumer PC demand, on a strong prior year OEM Pro comparable that benefited from Windows 7 end of support. Windows OEM Pro revenue decreased 9% and Windows OEM non-Pro revenue grew 21%. Gaming revenue increased $3.8 billion or 33% driven by growth in Xbox content and services and Xbox hardware. Xbox content and services revenue increased $2.3 billion or 23% driven by growth in third-party titles, Xbox Game Pass subscriptions, and first-party titles. Xbox hardware revenue increased 92% driven by higher price of consoles sold due to the Xbox Series X|S launches. Search advertising revenue increased $788 million or 10%. Search advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 13% driven by higher revenue per search and search volume. Surface revenue increased $302 million or 5%. Operating income increased $3.5 billion or 22%. Gross margin increased $2.8 billion or 10% driven by growth in Windows, Gaming, and Search advertising. Gross margin percentage decreased driven by sales mix shift to Gaming hardware. Operating expenses decreased $752 million or 6% driven by prior year charges associated with the closing of our Microsoft Store physical locations and reductions in retail store expenses and marketing, offset in part by investments in Gaming. Gross margin and operating income included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2% and 3%, respectively. 45 PART II Item 7 OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) 2021 2020 Percentage Change Research and development $ 20,716 $ 19,269 8% As a percent of revenue 12% 13% (1)ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content. Research and development expenses increased $1.4 billion or 8% driven by investments in cloud engineering. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) 2021 2020 Percentage Change Sales and marketing $ 20,117 $ 19,598 3% As a percent of revenue 12% 14% (2)ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $519 million or 3% driven by investments in commercial sales, offset in part by a reduction in bad debt expense. Sales and marketing included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) 2021 2020 Percentage Change General and administrative $ 5,107 $ 5,111 0% As a percent of revenue 3% 4% (1)ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses were relatively unchanged, driven by prior year charges associated with the closing of our Microsoft Store physical locations, offset in part by an increase in certain employee-related expenses and business taxes. 46 PART II Item 7 OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2021 2020 Interest and dividends income $ 2,131 $ 2,680 Interest expense (2,346 ) (2,591 ) Net recognized gains on investments 1,232 32 Net gains on derivatives 17 187 Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements 54 (191 ) Other, net 98 (40 ) Total $ 1,186 $ 77 We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Interest and dividends income decreased due to lower yields on fixed-income securities. Interest expense decreased due to a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt maturities. Net recognized gains on investments increased due to higher gains on equity securities. Net gains on derivatives decreased due to lower gains on foreign currency contracts. INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2021 and 2020 was 14% and 17%, respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate was primarily due to tax benefits from a decision by the India Supreme Court on withholding taxes in the case of Engineering Analysis Centre of Excellence Private Limited vs The Commissioner of Income Tax, an agreement between the U.S. and India tax authorities related to transfer pricing, final Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) regulations, and an increase in tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation. We have historically paid India withholding taxes on software sales through distributor withholding and tax audit assessments in India. In March 2021, the India Supreme Court ruled favorably for companies in 86 separate appeals, some dating back to 2012, holding that software sales are not subject to India withholding taxes. Although we were not a party to the appeals, our software sales in India were determined to be not subject to withholding taxes. Therefore, we recorded a net income tax benefit of $620 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021 to reflect the results of the India Supreme Court decision impacting fiscal year 1996 through fiscal year 2016. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland and Puerto Rico, tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation, and tax benefits from the India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes. The mix of income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries impacted our effective tax rate as a result of the geographic distribution of, and customer demand for, our products and services. In fiscal year 2021, our U.S. income before income taxes was $35.0 billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $36.1 billion. In fiscal year 2020, our U.S. income before income taxes was $24.1 billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $28.9 billion. Uncertain Tax Positions We settled a portion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 in fiscal year 2011. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report related to unresolved issues for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. We also settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 in fiscal year 2016, and a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2010 to 2013 in fiscal year 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, we settled an additional portion of the IRS audits for tax years 2004 to 2013 and made a payment of $1.7 billion, including tax and interest. We remain under audit for tax years 2004 to 2017. 47 PART II Item 7 As of June 30, 202 1 , the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate to transfer pricing, which could have a material impact in our consolidated financial statements when the matters are resolved. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved key transfer pricing issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2020, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolution of each of these audits is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Adjusted net income and adjusted diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures which exclude the tax benefits related to the India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes in fiscal year 2021. We believe these non-GAAP measures aid investors by providing additional insight into our operational performance and help clarify trends affecting our business. For comparability of reporting, management considers non-GAAP measures in conjunction with GAAP financial results in evaluating business performance. These non-GAAP financial measures presented should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results: (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) 2021 2020 Percentage Change Net income $ 61,271 $ 44,281 38% Net income tax benefit related to India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes (620 ) 0 * Adjusted net income (non-GAAP) $ 60,651 $ 44,281 37% Diluted earnings per share $ 8.05 $ 5.76 40% Net income tax benefit related to India Supreme Court decision on withholding taxes (0.08 ) 0 * Adjusted diluted earnings per share (non-GAAP) $ 7.97 $ 5.76 38% * Not meaningful. 48 PART II Item 7 FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $130.3 billion and $136.5 billion as of June 30, 2021 and 2020. Equity investments were $6.0 billion and $3.0 billion as of June 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Cash from operations increased $16.1 billion to $76.7 billion for fiscal year 2021, mainly due to an increase in cash received from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees. Cash used in financing increased $2.5 billion to $48.5 billion for fiscal year 2021, mainly due to a $4.4 billion increase in common stock repurchases and a $1.4 billion increase in dividends paid, offset in part by a $1.8 billion decrease in repayments of debt and a $1.7 billion decrease in cash premium paid on debt exchange. Cash used in investing increased $15.4 billion to $27.6 billion for fiscal year 2021, mainly due to a $6.4 billion increase in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible and other assets, a $5.2 billion increase in additions to property and equipment, and a $4.1 billion decrease in cash from net investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Debt We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. In March 2021 and June 2020, we exchanged a portion of our existing debt at a premium for cash and new debt with longer maturities to take advantage of favorable financing rates in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. Refer to Note 11 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. 49 PART II Item 7 Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include Software Assurance (SA) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service. Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of June 30, 2021: (In millions) Three Months Ending September 30, 2021 $ 15,922 December 31, 2021 12,646 March 31, 2022 8,786 June 30, 2022 4,171 Thereafter 2,616 Total $ 44,141 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Share Repurchases During fiscal years 2021 and 2020, we repurchased 101 million shares and 126 million shares of our common stock for $23.0 billion and $19.7 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 16 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Dividends Refer to Note 16 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. Additionally, we have agreed to cover damages resulting from breaches of certain security and privacy commitments in our cloud business. In evaluating estimated losses on these obligations, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact in our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. 50 PART II Item 7 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of June 30, 2021: (In millions) 2022 2023-2024 2025-2026 Thereafter Total Long-term debt: (a) Principal payments $ 8,075 $ 8,000 $ 5,250 $ 42,585 $ 63,910 Interest payments 1,628 2,847 2,438 17,320 24,233 Construction commitments (b) 8,927 529 0 0 9,456 Operating leases, including imputed interest (c) 2,801 4,956 3,469 6,747 17,973 Finance leases, including imputed interest (c) 1,341 3,256 3,774 14,096 22,467 Transition tax (d) 1,427 4,105 8,030 0 13,562 Purchase commitments (e) 29,129 1,708 446 270 31,553 Other long-term liabilities (f) 0 365 68 263 696 Total $ 53,328 $ 25,766 $ 23,475 $ 81,281 $ 183,850 (a) Refer to Note 11 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (b) Refer to Note 7 Property and Equipment of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (c) Refer to Note 14 Leases of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (d) Refer to Note 12 Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (e) Amounts represent purchase commitments, including open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts that are not presented as construction commitments above. (f) We have excluded long-term tax contingencies, other tax liabilities, and deferred income taxes of $14.6 billion from the amounts presented as the timing of these obligations is uncertain. We have also excluded unearned revenue and non-cash items. Other Planned Uses of Capital On April 11, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Nuance Communications, Inc. (Nuance) for $56.00 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at $19.7 billion, inclusive of Nuances net debt. The acquisition has been approved by Nuances shareholders, and we expect it to close by the end of calendar year 2021, subject to the satisfaction of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity As a result of the TCJA, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. We have paid transition tax of $4.7 billion, which included $1.5 billion for fiscal year 2021. The remaining transition tax of $13.6 billion is payable over the next five years with a final payment in fiscal year 2026. We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the TCJA, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. 51 PART II Item 7 RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies, as well as uncertainty in the current economic environment due to COVID-19. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP. Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers. Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented. Impairment of Investment Securities We review debt investments quarterly for credit losses and impairment. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. 52 PART II Item 7 Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 53 PART II Item 7 The TCJA significantly changes existing U.S. tax law and includes numerous provisions that affect our business. Refer to Note 12 Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I I , Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. 54 PART II Item 7 STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented in this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based on managements estimates and judgments, have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems to provide reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented by written policies, an organizational structure providing division of responsibilities, careful selection and training of qualified personnel, and a program of internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely of independent directors of the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm to ensure that each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access to the Audit Committee. Satya Nadella Chief Executive Officer Amy E. Hood Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Alice L. Jolla Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer 55 PART II Item 7A ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITAT IVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS We are exposed to economic risk from foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. We use derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currencies Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions, including hedges. Principal currency exposures include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar. Interest Rate Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. We manage the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global fixed-income indices. Credit Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities. We manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Equity Securities held in our equity investments portfolio are subject to price risk. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The following table sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices: (In millions) Risk Categories Hypothetical Change June 30, 2021 Impact Foreign currencyRevenue 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates $ (6,756 ) Earnings Foreign currencyInvestments 10% decrease in foreign exchange rates (136 ) Fair Value Interest rate 100 basis point increase in U.S. treasury interest rates (3,511 ) Fair Value Credit 100 basis point increase in credit spreads (309 ) Fair Value Equity 10% decrease in equity market prices (602 ) Earnings 56 PART II Item 8