managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Companys annual report to stockholders for the applicable year; (f) acquisitions or divestitures; and (g) foreign exchange gains and losses. To the extent such inclusions or exclusions affect Awards to Covered Employees, they shall be prescribed in a form and at a time that meets the requirements of Code Section 162(m) for deductibility. (e) Any payment of a Qualified PerformanceBased Award granted with performance goals pursuant to subsection (c) above shall be conditioned on the written certification of the Committee in each case that the performance goals and any other material conditions were satisfied. Written certification may take the form of a Committee resolution passed by a majority of the Committee at a properly convened meeting or through unanimous action by the Committee via action by written consent. The certification requirement also may be satisfied by a separate writing executed by the Chairman of the Committee, acting in his capacity as such, following the foregoing Committee action or by the Chairman executing approved minutes of the Committee in which such determinations were made. Except as specifically provided in 16 subsection (c), no Qualified PerformanceBased Award held by a Covered Employee or an employee who in the reasonable judgment of the Committee may be a Covered Employee on the date of payment, may be amended, nor may the Committee exercise any discretionary authority it may otherwise have under the Plan with respect to a Qualified PerformanceBased Award under the Plan, in any manner to waive the achievement of the applicable performance goal based on Qualified Business Criteria or to increase the amount payable pursuant thereto or the value thereof, or otherwise in a manner that would cause the Qualified Performance Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption. (f) Section 5.4 sets forth the maximum number of Shares or dollar value that may be granted in any one-year period to a Participant in designated forms of Qualified PerformanceBased Awards. (g) With respect to a Participant who is an officer of the Company, any payment of a Qualified PerformanceBased Award granted with performance goals pursuant to subsection (c) above shall be conditioned on the officer having remained continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate for the entire performance or measurement period, including, as well, through the date of determination and certification of the payment of any such Award pursuant to subsection (e) above (the Certification Date). For purposes of the Plan, with respect to any given performance or measurement period, an officer of the Company who (i) terminates employment (regardless of cause) or who otherwise ceases to be an officer, prior to the Certification Date and (ii) who, pursuant to a separate contractual arrangement with the Company is entitled to receive payments from the Company thereunder extending to or beyond such Certification Date as a result of such termination or cessation in officer status, shall be deemed to have been employed by the Company as an officer through the Certification Date for purposes of payment eligibility. 14.12. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. Whether military, government or other service or other leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment shall be determined in each case by the Committee at its discretion, and any determination by the Committee shall be final and conclusive. A Participants Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be deemed to terminate (i) in a circumstance in which a Participant transfers from the Company to an Affiliate, transfers from an Affiliate to the Company, or transfers from one Affiliate to another Affiliate, or (ii) in the discretion of the Committee as specified at or prior to such occurrence, in the case of a spin-off, sale or disposition of the Participants employer from the Company or any Affiliate. To the extent that this provision causes Incentive Stock Options to extend beyond three months from the date a Participant is deemed to be an employee of the Company, a Parent or Subsidiary for purposes of Sections 424(e) and 424(f) of the Code, the Options held by such Participant shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options. 14.13. DEFERRAL. Subject to applicable law, the Committee may permit or require a Participant to defer such Participants receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue of the exercise of an Option or SAR, the lapse or waiver of restrictions with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, or the satisfaction of any requirements or goals with respect to Performance Shares, and Other Stock Based Awards. If any such deferral election is required or permitted, the Board shall, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for such payment deferrals in compliance with Section 409A of the Code and other applicable law. 14.14. FORFEITURE EVENTS. Awards under the Plan shall be subject to any compensation recoupment policy that the Company will adopt from time to time, as required by law or otherwise, to the extent applicable. In addition, the Committee may specify in an Award Certificate that the Participants rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, termination of employment for cause, violation of material Company or Affiliate policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company or any Affiliate, or a later determination that the vesting of, or amount realized from, a Performance Award was based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria, whether or not the Participant caused or contributed to such material inaccuracy. 17 14.15. SUBSTITUTE AWARDS. The Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stockbased awards held by employees of another entity who become employees of the Company or an Affiliate as a result of a merger or consolidation of the former employing entity with the Company or an Affiliate or the acquisition by the Company or an Affiliate of property or stock of the former employing corporation. The Committee may direct that the substitute awards be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances. ARTICLE 15 CHANGES IN CAPITAL STRUCTURE 15.1. MANDATORY ADJUSTMENTS. Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by each outstanding Award, and the number of issued shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been effected without receipt of consideration. Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding, and conclusive. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stocksplit), a declaration of a dividend payable in Shares, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the authorization limits under Section 5.1 and 5.4 shall automatically be adjusted proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall automatically be adjusted proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor. To the extent that any adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 cause Incentive Stock Options to cease to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, such Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall not make any adjustments to outstanding Options or SARs that would constitute a modification or substitution of the stock right under Treas. Reg. Sections 1.409A-1(b)(5)(v) that would be treated as the grant of a new stock right or change in the form of payment for purposes of Code Section 409A. 15.2. DISCRETIONARY ADJUSTMENTS. Upon the occurrence or in anticipation of any corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any merger, reorganization, recapitalization or combination or exchange of shares or any transaction described in Section 15.1), the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide (i) that Awards will be settled in cash rather than Stock, (ii) that Awards will become immediately vested and exercisable and will expire after a designated period of time to the extent not then exercised, (iii) that Awards will be assumed by another party to a transaction or otherwise be equitably converted or substituted in connection with such transaction, (iv) that outstanding Awards may be settled by payment in cash or cash equivalents equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of the underlying Stock, as of a specified date associated with the transaction (or the per-share transaction price), over the exercise or base price of the Award, (v) that applicable performance targets and performance periods for Awards will be modified, consistent with Code Section 162(m) where applicable, or (vi) any combination of the foregoing. The Committees determination need not be uniform and may be different for different Participants whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. 15.3 GENERAL. Any discretionary adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 shall be subject to the provisions of Article 16. To the extent that any adjustments made pursuant to this Article 15 cause Incentive Stock Options to cease to qualify as Incentive Stock Options, such Options shall be deemed to be Nonstatutory Stock Options. 18 ARTICLE 16 AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION 16.1. AMENDMENT, MODIFICATION AND TERMINATION. The Board or the Committee may, at any time and from time to time, amend, modify or terminate the Plan without stockholder approval; provided, however, that if an amendment to the Plan would, in the reasonable opinion of the Board or the Committee, either (i) materially increase the number of Shares available under the Plan, (ii) expand the types of awards under the Plan, (iii) materially expand the class of participants eligible to participate in the Plan, (iv) materially extend the term of the Plan, or (v) otherwise constitute a material change requiring stockholder approval under applicable laws, policies or regulations or the applicable listing or other requirements of an Exchange, then such amendment shall be subject to stockholder approval; and provided, further, that the Board or Committee may condition any other amendment or modification on the approval of stockholders of the Company for any reason, including by reason of such approval being necessary or deemed advisable to (i) comply with the listing or other requirements of an Exchange, or (ii) to satisfy any other tax, securities or other applicable laws, policies or regulations. Without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company, the Plan may not be amended to permit: (i) the exercise price or base price of an Option or SAR to be reduced, directly or indirectly, (ii) an Option or SAR to be cancelled in exchange for cash, other Awards, or Options or SARs with an exercise or base price that is less than the exercise price or base price of the original Option or SAR, or otherwise, or (iii) the Company to repurchase an Option or SAR for value (in cash or otherwise) from a Participant if the current Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Option or SAR is lower than the exercise price or base price per share of the Option or SAR. 16.2. AWARDS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED. At any time and from time to time, the Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award without approval of the Participant; provided, however: (a) Subject to the terms of the applicable Award Certificate, such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Participants consent, reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment or termination (with the per-share value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment or termination over the exercise or base price of such Award); (b) The original term of an Option may not be extended without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company; (c) Except as otherwise provided in Article 15, without the prior approval of the stockholders of the Company: (i) the exercise price or base price of an Option or SAR may not be reduced, directly or indirectly, (ii) an Option or SAR may not be cancelled in exchange for cash, other Awards, or Options or SARs with an exercise or base price that is less than the exercise price or base price of the original Option or SAR, or otherwise, and (iii) the Company may not repurchase an Option or SAR for value (in cash or otherwise) from a Participant if the current Fair Market Value of the Shares underlying the Option or SAR is lower than the exercise price or base price per share of the Option or SAR. (d) No termination, amendment, or modification of the Plan shall adversely affect any Award previously granted under the Plan, without the written consent of the Participant affected thereby. An outstanding Award shall not be deemed to be adversely affected by a Plan amendment if such amendment would not reduce or diminish the value of such Award determined as if the Award had been exercised, vested, cashed in or otherwise settled on the date of such amendment (with the per-share value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right for this purpose being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value as of the date of such amendment over the exercise or base price of such Award). 19 16.3. COMPLIANCE AMENDMENTS. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, the Committee may amend the Plan or an Award Certificate, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as deemed necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or Award Certificate to any present or future law relating to plans of this or similar nature (including, but not limited to, Section 409A of the Code), and to the administrative regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder. By accepting an Award under this Plan, a Participant agrees to any amendment made pursuant to this Section 16.3 to any Award granted under the Plan without further consideration or action. ARTICLE 17 GENERAL PROVISIONS 17.1. NO RIGHTS TO AWARDS; NON-UNIFORM DETERMINATIONS. No Participant or any Eligible Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan. Neither the Company, its Affiliates nor the Committee is obligated to treat Participants or Eligible Participants uniformly, and determinations made under the Plan may be made by the Committee selectively among Eligible Participants who receive, or are eligible to receive, Awards (whether or not such Eligible Participants are similarly situated). 17.2. NO STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS. No Award gives a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with such Award. 17.3. SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATED TO SECTION 409A OF THE CODE . (a) It is intended that the payments and benefits provided under the Plan and any Award shall either be exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The Plan and all Award Certificates shall be construed in a manner that effects such intent. Nevertheless, the tax treatment of the benefits provided under the Plan or any Award is not warranted or guaranteed. Neither the Company, its Affiliates nor their respective directors, officers, employees or advisers (other than in his or her capacity as a Participant) shall be held liable for any taxes, interest, penalties or other monetary amounts owed by any Participant or other taxpayer as a result of the Plan or any Award. (b) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, to the extent that any amount or benefit that would constitute non-exempt deferred compensation for purposes of Section 409A of the Code (Non-Exempt Deferred Compensation) would otherwise be payable or distributable, or a different form of payment (e.g., lump sum or installment) would be effected, under the Plan or any Award Certificate by reason of the occurrence of a Change in Control, or the Participants Disability or separation from service, such Non-Exempt Deferred Compensation will not be payable or distributable to the Participant, and/or such different form of payment will not be effected, by reason of such circumstance unless the circumstances giving rise to such Change in Control, Disability or separation from service meet any description or definition of change in control event, disability or separation from service, as the case may be, in Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations (without giving effect to any elective provisions that may be available under such definition). This provision does not prohibit the vesting of any Award upon a Change in Control, Disability or separation from service, however defined. If this provision prevents the payment or distribution of any amount or benefit, or the application of a different form of payment of any amount or benefit, such payment or distribution shall be made at the time and in the form that would have applied absent the Change in Control, Disability or separation from service, as applicable. (c) If any one or more Awards granted under the Plan to a Participant could qualify for any separation pay exemption described in Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(b)(9), but such Awards in the aggregate exceed the dollar limit permitted for the separation pay exemptions, the Company (acting through the Committee or the Head of Human Resources) shall determine which Awards or portions thereof will be subject to such exemptions. 20 (d) Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or in any Award Certificate to the contrary, if any amount or benefit that would constitute Non-Exempt Deferred Compensation would otherwise be payable or distributable under this Plan or any Award Certificate by reason of a Participants separation from service during a period in which the Participant is a Specified Employee (as defined below), then, subject to any permissible acceleration of payment by the Committee under Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-3(j)(4)(ii) (domestic relations order), (j)(4)(iii) (conflicts of interest), or (j)(4)(vi) (payment of employment taxes): (i) if the payment or distribution is payable in a lump sum, the Participants right to receive payment or distribution of such Non-Exempt Deferred Compensation will be delayed until the earlier of the Participants death or the first day of the seventh month following the Participants separation from service; and (ii) if the payment or distribution is payable over time, the amount of such Non-Exempt Deferred Compensation that would otherwise be payable during the six-month period immediately following the Participants separation from service will be accumulated and the Participants right to receive payment or distribution of such accumulated amount will be delayed until the earlier of the Participants death or the first day of the seventh month following the Participants separation from service, whereupon the accumulated amount will be paid or distributed to the Participant and the normal payment or distribution schedule for any remaining payments or distributions will resume. For purposes of this Plan, the term Specified Employee has the meaning given such term in Code Section 409A and the final regulations thereunder, provided, however, that, as permitted in such final regulations, the Companys Specified Employees and its application of the six-month delay rule of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) shall be determined in accordance with rules adopted by the Board or any committee of the Board, which shall be applied consistently with respect to all nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements of the Company, including this Plan. (e) If, pursuant to an Award, a Participant is entitled to a series of installment payments, such Participants right to the series of installment payments shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments and not to a single payment. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term series of installment payments has the meaning provided in Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii) (or any successor thereto). (f) The Company shall have the sole authority to make any accelerated distribution permissible under Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4) to Participants of deferred amounts, provided that such distribution(s) meets the requirements of Treas. Reg. section 1.409A-3(j)(4). (g) Whenever an Award conditions a payment or benefit on the Participants execution and non-revocation of a release of claims, such release must be executed and all revocation periods shall have expired within 60 days after the date of termination of the Participants employment; failing which such payment or benefit shall be forfeited. If such payment or benefit is exempt from Section 409A of the Code, the Company may elect to make or commence payment at any time during such 60-day period. If such payment or benefit constitutes Non-Exempt Deferred Compensation, then, subject to subsection (d) above, (i) if such 60-day period begins and ends in a single calendar year, the Company may make or commence payment at any time during such period at its discretion, and (ii) if such 60-day period begins in one calendar year and ends in the next calendar year, the payment shall be made or commence during the second such calendar year (or any later date specified for such payment under the applicable Award), even if such signing and non-revocation of the release occur during the first such calendar year included within such 60-day period. 21 17.4. WITHHOLDING. The Company or any Affiliate shall have the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require a Participant to remit to the Company, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including the Participants FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any exercise, lapse of restriction or other taxable event arising as a result of the Plan. If Shares are surrendered to the Company to satisfy withholding obligations in excess of the minimum withholding obligation, such Shares must have been held by the Participant as fully vested shares for such period of time, if any, as necessary to avoid the recognition of an expense under generally accepted accounting principles. The Company shall have the authority to require a Participant to remit cash to the Company in lieu of the surrender of Shares for tax withholding obligations if the surrender of Shares in satisfaction of such withholding obligations would result in the Companys recognition of expense under generally accepted accounting principles. With respect to withholding required upon any taxable event under the Plan, the Committee may, at the time the Award is granted or thereafter, require or permit that any such withholding requirement be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding from the Award Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Committee establishes. 17.5. NO RIGHT TO CONTINUED SERVICE. Nothing in the Plan, any Award Certificate or any other document or statement made with respect to the Plan, shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate any Participants employment or status as an officer, director or consultant at any time, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue as an employee, officer, director or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate, whether for the duration of a Participants Award or otherwise. 17.6. UNFUNDED STATUS OF AWARDS. The Plan is intended to be an unfunded plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award Certificate shall give the Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate. This Plan is not intended to be subject to ERISA. 17.7. RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER BENEFITS. No payment under the Plan shall be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of the Company or any Affiliate unless provided otherwise in such other plan. 17.8. EXPENSES. The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company and its Affiliates. 17.9. TITLES AND HEADINGS. The titles and headings of the Sections in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or headings, shall control. 17.10. GENDER AND NUMBER. Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. 17.11. FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional Shares shall be issued and the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, whether cash shall be given in lieu of fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares shall be eliminated by rounding up or down. 17.12. GOVERNMENT AND OTHER REGULATIONS. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Participant who acquires Shares pursuant to the Plan may, during any period of time that such Participant is an affiliate of the Company (within the meaning of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the 1933 Act), sell such Shares, unless such offer and sale is made (i) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the 1933 Act, which is current and includes the Shares to be sold, or (ii) pursuant to an appropriate exemption from the registration requirement of the 1933 Act, such as that set forth in Rule 144 promulgated under the 1933 Act. 22 (b) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if at any time the Committee shall determine that the registration, listing or qualification of the Shares covered by an Award upon any Exchange or under any foreign, federal, state or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such Award or the purchase or receipt of Shares thereunder, no Shares may be purchased, delivered or received pursuant to such Award unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any condition not acceptable to the Committee. Any Participant receiving or purchasing Shares pursuant to an Award shall make such representations and agreements and furnish such information as the Committee may request to assure compliance with the foregoing or any other applicable legal requirements. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to the Committees determination that all related requirements have been fulfilled. The Company shall in no event be obligated to register any securities pursuant to the 1933 Act or applicable state or foreign law or to take any other action in order to cause the issuance and delivery of such certificates to comply with any such law, regulation or requirement. 17.13. GOVERNING LAW. To the extent not governed by federal law, the Plan and all Award Certificates shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware. 17.14. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS. Each Award Certificate may contain such other terms and conditions as the Committee may determine; provided that such other terms and conditions are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan. 17.15. NO LIMITATIONS ON RIGHTS OF COMPANY. The grant of any Award shall not in any way affect the right or power of the Company to make adjustments, reclassification or changes in its capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets. The Plan shall not restrict the authority of the Company, for proper corporate purposes, to draft or assume awards, other than under the Plan, to or with respect to any person. If the Committee so directs, the Company may issue or transfer Shares to an Affiliate, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Affiliate will transfer such Shares to a Participant in accordance with the terms of an Award granted to such Participant and specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 17.16. INDEMNIFICATION. Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, or an officer of the Company to whom authority was delegated in accordance with Article 4 shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Companys approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf, unless such loss, cost, liability, or expense is a result of his or her own willful misconduct or except as expressly provided by statute. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless. 17.17. SEVERABILITY . In the event that any provision of this Plan is found to be invalid or otherwise unenforceable under any applicable law, such invalidity or unenforceability will not be construed as rendering any other provisions contained herein as invalid or unenforceable, and all such other provisions will be given full force and effect to the same extent as though the invalid or unenforceable provision was not contained herein. 23 EX-10.10 3 a2014q4exhibit10-10.htm EXHIBIT 10.10 2014 Q4 Exhibit 10-10 EXHIBIT 10.10 Micron Technology, Inc. 8000 S. Federal Way Mail Stop 557 Boise, ID 83716-9632 Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (2004 Equity Incentive Plan) Notice of Award and Acknowledgment and Terms and Conditions Name: Employee ID: Effective MMDDYYYY (Award Date), you have been awarded ##,### shares of Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) Common Stock. This Restricted Stock Award is subject to the following: 1. The terms and conditions of the Restricted Award Agreement and 2. The terms and conditions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Please review the Restricted Stock Agreement and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan carefully, as they contain the terms and conditions which govern your Restricted Stock Award. In addition, a Prospectus summarizing the Plan and the Insider Trading Calendar and Policy are available for your review. Unless sooner vested in accordance with Section 3 of the Restricted Stock Agreement or otherwise in the discretion of the Committee, the restrictions imposed under Section 2 of the Restricted Stock Agreement will expire as to the following number of Shares awarded hereunder, on the following respective dates; provided the Grantee is still employed by the Company or any Affiliate. Lapse Schedule Shares Lapse Date % MM/DD/YYY % MM/DD/YYY % MM/DD/YYY % MM/DD/YYY Acknowledgement Grantee hereby acknowledges that he/she has reviewed (i) the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Agreement and (ii) 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and is familiar with the provisions thereof. Grantee acknowledges that a Prospectus relating to the Plan was made available for review. Grantee hereby accepts this Award subject to all the terms and provisions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and Restricted Stock Award. Grantee acknowledges that the grant and acceptance of this Award do not constitute an employment agreement and do not assure continuous employment with Micron Technology, Inc., its affiliated companies, or subsidiaries. Grantee authorizes Micron Technology, Inc. to release his/her Social Security Number or Global ID and address information to the Company's Broker who has agreed to provide brokerage service for 2004 Equity Incentive Plan participants for the purposes of opening an account under his/her name. MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC. a Delaware Corporation Signature: ___________________________________ /s/ Patrick T. Otte Patrick T. Otte Date: _______________________________________ Vice President, Human Resources Date: MMDDYYYY RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. Grant of Shares . The Company hereby grants to the Grantee named on the Notice of Award (Grantee), subject to the restrictions and the other terms and conditions set forth in the Micron Technology, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the Plan) and in this award agreement (this Agreement), the number of shares indicated on the Notice of Award of the Companys $0.10 par value common stock (the Shares). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. 2. Restrictions . The Shares are subject to each of the following restrictions. Restricted Shares mean those Shares that are subject to the restrictions imposed hereunder and such restrictions have not then expired or terminated. Restricted Shares may not be sold, transferred, exchanged, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered. If Grantees service as a director of the Company or employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates for any reason other than as set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 3 hereof, then Grantee shall forfeit all of Grantees right, title and interest in and to the Restricted Shares as of the date of termination of such service or employment, and such Restricted Shares shall revert to the Company. The restrictions imposed under this Section shall apply to all shares of the Companys Stock with respect to the Restricted Shares or other securities issued in connection with any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend or other change in corporate structure affecting the Stock of the Company. 3. Expiration and Termination of Restrictions . The restrictions imposed under Section 2 will expire on the earliest to occur of the following (the period prior to such expiration being referred to herein as the Restricted Period): (a) On the respective expiration dates specified on the Notice of Award as to the number of Shares specified thereon; provided Grantee is then still employed by the Company or any Affiliate or still serves as a director of the Company; (b) Termination of Grantees service as a director of the Company or employment by the Company and all Affiliates by reason of death or Disability; or (c) Upon the occurrence of a Change in Control. 4. Delivery of Shares . The Shares will be registered in the name of Grantee as of the Grant Date and will be held by the Company during the Restricted Period in certificated or uncertificated form. If a certificate for Restricted Shares is issued during the Restricted Period with respect to such Shares, such certificate shall be registered in the name of Grantee and shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture and restrictions against transfer) contained in a Restricted Stock Agreement between the registered owner of the shares represented hereby and Micron Technology, Inc. Release from such terms and conditions shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of such Agreement, copies of which are on file in the offices of Micron Technology, Inc. Stock certificates for the Shares, without the above legend, shall be delivered to Grantee or Grantees designee upon request of Grantee after the expiration of the Restricted Period, but delivery may be postponed for such period as may be required for the Company with reasonable diligence to comply if deemed advisable by the Company, with registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, listing requirements under the rules of any stock exchange, and requirements under any other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or transfer of the Shares. 5. Voting and Dividend Rights . Grantee, as beneficial owner of the Shares, shall have full voting and dividend rights with respect to the Shares during and after the Restricted Period. If Grantee forfeits any rights he may have under this Agreement in accordance with Section 2, Grantee shall no longer have any rights as a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Shares or any interest therein and Grantee shall no longer be entitled to receive dividends on such stock. 6. Changes in Capital Structure . In the event of a corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares), the Committee may adjust this award to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of this award. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock split), a declaration of a dividend payable in Stock, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the Shares then subject to this Agreement shall automatically be adjusted proportionately. 7. No Right of Continued Employment . With respect to a grantee who is employed by the Company or an Affiliate, nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate such grantees employment at any time, nor confer upon any such grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. 8. Payment of Taxes . Upon issuance of the Shares hereunder, Grantee may make an election to be taxed upon such award under Section 83(b) of the Code. Grantee will, no later than the date as of which any amount related to the Shares first becomes includable in Grantees gross income for federal income tax purposes, pay to the Company, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Committee regarding payment of, any federal, state and local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount. The Committee may permit Grantee to surrender to the Company a number of Shares from this Award as necessary to pay the minimum applicable withholding tax obligation. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company, and, where applicable, its Affiliates will, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to Grantee. 9. Amendment . The Committee may amend, modify or terminate the Award, Notice of Award and this Agreement without approval of the Grantee; provided, however, that such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Grantees consent, reduce or diminish the value of this Award determined as if it had been fully vested on the date of such amendment or termination. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company is authorized, without Grantees consent, to amend or interpret this Award, the Notice of Award and this Agreement certificate to the extent necessary, if any, to comply with Section 409A of the Code and Treasury regulations and guidance with respect to such law. 10. Plan Controls . The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of the Notice of Award and this Agreement and this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of the Notice of Award and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative. 11. Severability . If any one or more of the provisions contained in the Notice of Award and this Agreement is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of the Notice of Award and this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included. 12. Notice . Notices and communications under the Notice of Award and this Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Company must be addressed to: Micron Technology, Inc., 8000 S. Federal Way, P.O. Box 6, Boise, ID 83716-9632, Attn: Secretary, or any other address designated by the Company in a written notice to Grantee. Notices to Grantee will be directed to the address of Grantee then currently on file with the Company, or at any other address given by Grantee in a written notice to the Company. Micron Technology, Inc. 8000 S. Federal Way Mail Stop 557 Boise, ID 83716-9632 Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (2004 Equity Incentive Plan) Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement and Terms and Conditions Name: Employee ID: Effective MMDDYYYY (Grant Date), you have been granted a Nonqualified Stock Option to purchase ##,### shares of Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) Common Stock at $##.##(USD) per share. This Option Grant is subject to the following: 1. The terms and conditions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan - Stock Option Agreement and 2. The terms and conditions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Please review the Option Agreement and the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan carefully, as they contain the terms and conditions which govern your option. In addition, a Prospectus summarizing the Plan and the Insider Trading Calendar and Policy are available for your review. Subject to your continued employment, this Option may be exercised in whole or in part, in accordance with the following schedule: Shares Vesting Date Expiration Date % MM/DD/YYYY MM/DD/YYYY % MM/DD/YYYY MM/DD/YYYY % MM/DD/YYYY MM/DD/ YYYY % MM/DD/YYYY MM/DD/YYYY Termination Period This Option may be exercised for thirty (30) days after termination of the Optionee's employment or consulting relationship with the Company. Upon the death or Disability of the Optionee, this Option may be exercised for such longer period as provided in the Plan. If Optionee or his or her beneficiary exercises the Option after termination of service, the Options may be exercised only with respect to the shares that were otherwise vested on the date of Optionees termination of service. In no event shall this Option be exercised later than the Expiration Date as provided in the Option Agreement. Acknowledgement Optionee hereby acknowledges that he/she has reviewed (i) the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement and (ii) 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and is familiar with the provisions thereof. Optionee acknowledges that a Prospectus relating to the Plan was made available for review. Optionee hereby accepts this Option subject to all the terms and provisions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and this Option Agreement. Optionee acknowledges that the grant and acceptance of this Option do not constitute an employment agreement and do not assure continuous employment with Micron Technology, Inc., its affiliated companies, or subsidiaries. Optionee authorizes Micron Technology, Inc. to release his/her Social Security Number or Global ID and address information to the Company's Broker who has agreed to provide brokerage service for stock plan participants for the purposes of opening an account under his/her name. MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC. a Delaware Corporation Signature: ___________________________________ /s/ Patrick T. Otte Patrick T. Otte Date: _______________________________________ Vice President, Human Resources Date: MM/DD/YYYY OPTION AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. Grant of Option. Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) hereby grants to the Optionee named on the Notice of Grant (Optionee), under the Micron Technology, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the Plan), stock options to purchase from the Company (the Options), on the terms and on conditions set forth in this agreement (this Agreement), the number of shares indicated on the Notice of Grant of the Companys $0.10 par value common stock, at the exercise price per share set forth on the Notice of Grant. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. 2. Vesting of Options. The Option shall vest (become exercisable) in accordance with the schedule shown on the Notice of Grant of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing vesting schedule, upon Optionees death or Disability during his or her Continuous Status as a Participant, or upon a Change in Control, all Options shall become fully vested and exercisable. 3. Term of Options and Limitations on Right to Exercise. The term of the Options will be for a period of eight years, expiring at 5:00 p.m., Mountain Time, on the eighth anniversary of the Grant Date (the Expiration Date). To the extent not previously exercised, the Options will lapse prior to the Expiration Date upon the earliest to occur of the following circumstances: (a) Thirty days after the termination of Optionees Continuous Status as a Participant for any reason other than by reason of Optionees death or Disability. (b) Twelve months after termination of Optionees Continuous Status as Participant by reason of Disability. (c) Twelve months after the date of Optionees death, if Optionee dies while employed, or during the three-month period described in subsection (a) above or during the twelve-month period described in subsection (b) above and before the Options otherwise lapse. Upon Optionees death, the Options may be exercised by Optionees beneficiary designated pursuant to the Plan. The Committee may, prior to the lapse of the Options under the circumstances described in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) above, extend the time to exercise the Options as determined by the Committee in writing. If Optionee returns to employment with the Company during the designated post termination exercise period, then Optionee shall be restored to the status Optionee held prior to such termination but no vesting credit will be earned for any period Optionee was not in Continuous Status as a Participant. If Optionee or his or her beneficiary exercises an Option after termination of service, the Options may be exercised only with respect to the Shares that were otherwise vested on Optionees termination of service. 4. Exercise of Option. The Options shall be exercised by (a) written notice directed to the Global Stock Department of the Company or its designee at the address and in the form specified by the Company from time to time and (b) payment to the Company in full for the Shares subject to such exercise (unless the exercise is a broker-assisted cashless exercise, as described below). If the person exercising an Option is not Optionee, such person shall also deliver with the notice of exercise appropriate proof of his or her right to exercise the Option. Payment for such Shares may be, in (a) cash, (b) in the discretion of the Company, Shares previously acquired by the purchaser, or (c) any combination thereof, for the number of Shares specified in such written notice. The value of surrendered Shares for this purpose shall be the Fair Market Value as of the last trading day immediately prior to the exercise date. To the extent permitted under Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board, and subject to applicable securities laws and any limitations as may be applied from time to time by the Committee (which need not be uniform), the Options may be exercised through a broker in a so-called cashless exercise whereby the broker sells the Option Shares on behalf of Optionee and delivers cash sales proceeds to the Company in payment of the exercise price. In such case, the date of exercise shall be deemed to be the date on which notice of exercise is received by the Company and the exercise price shall be delivered to the Company by the settlement date. 5. Beneficiary Designation. Optionee may, in the manner determined by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of Optionee hereunder and to receive any distribution with respect to the Options upon Optionees death. A beneficiary, legal guardian, legal representative, or other person claiming any rights hereunder is subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan, and to any additional restrictions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee. If no beneficiary has been designated or survives Optionee, the Options may be exercised by the legal representative of Optionees estate, and payment shall be made to Optionees estate. Subject to the foregoing, a beneficiary designation may be changed or revoked by Optionee at any time provided the change or revocation is filed with the Company. 6. Withholding. The Company or any employer Affiliate has the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require Optionee to remit to the employer, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including Optionees FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of the exercise of the Options. The withholding requirement may be satisfied, in whole or in part, at the election of the Company, by withholding from the Options Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes, all in accordance with such procedures as the Company establishes. 7. Limitation of Rights. The Options do not confer to Optionee or Optionees beneficiary designated pursuant to Paragraph 5 any rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with the exercise of the Options. Nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate Optionees service at any time, nor confer upon Optionee any right to continue in the service of the Company or any Affiliate. 8. Stock Reserve. The Company shall at all times during the term of this Agreement reserve and keep available such number of Shares as will be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of this Agreement. 9. Restrictions on Transfer and Pledge. No right or interest of Optionee in the Options may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated to or in favor of any party other than the Company or an Affiliate, or shall be subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of Optionee to any other party other than the Company or an Affiliate. The Options are not assignable or transferable by Optionee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a domestic relations order that would satisfy Section 414(p)(1)(A) of the Code if such Section applied to an Option under the Plan; provided, however, that the Committee may (but need not) permit other transfers. The Options may be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by Optionee or any permitted transferee. 10. Restrictions on Issuance of Shares. If at any time the Committee shall determine in its discretion, that registration, listing or qualification of the Shares covered by the Options upon any Exchange or under any foreign, federal, or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition to the exercise of the Options, the Options may not be exercised in whole or in part unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. 11. Amendment. The Committee may amend, modify or terminate this Agreement without approval of the Optionee; provided, however, that such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Optionee's consent, reduce or diminish the value of this award determined as if it had been fully vested and exercised on the date of such amendment or termination (with the per-share value being calculated as the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value over the exercise price of the Options). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company is authorized, without Grantees consent, to amend or interpret this Agreement to the extent necessary, if any, to comply with Section 409A of the Code and Treasury regulations and guidance with respect to such law. 12. Plan Controls. The terms and conditions contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement and this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative. 13. Successors. This Agreement shall be binding upon any successor of the Company, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan. 14. Severability. If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included. 15. Notice. Notices and communications under this Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Company must be addressed to: Micron Technology, Inc., 8000 S. Federal Way, P.O. Box 6, Boise, ID 83707-0006, Attn: Secretary, or any other address designated by the Company in a written notice to Optionee. Notices to Optionee will be directed to the address of Optionee then currently on file with the Company, or at any other address given by Optionee in a written notice to the Company. Micron Technology, Inc. 8000 S. Federal Way Mail Stop 557 Boise, ID 83716-9632 Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan Form of Agreement and Terms and Conditions Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (2004 Equity Incentive Plan) Notice of Award and Performance Restricted Stock Agreement Name: ID: Effective MM/DD/YYYY (Grant Date), you have been awarded performance-conditioned shares of Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) Common Stock. This Restricted Stock Award is subject to the following: 1. The terms and conditions of this Restricted Stock Agreement and 2. The terms and conditions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Please review the Restricted Stock Agreement and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan carefully, as they contain the terms and conditions which govern your Restricted Stock Award. In addition, a Prospectus summarizing the Plan and the Insider Trading Calendar and Policy are available for your review. The target number of Shares subject to this award is _____(the Target Award). Depending on the Companys level of attainment of specified performance targets for the Performance Period as specified in Section 3 of the Restricted Stock Agreement, you may vest in __% to __% of the Target Award in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Restricted Stock Agreement. The restrictions imposed under Section 2 of the Restricted Stock Agreement will expire as to the following number of Shares awarded hereunder, upon achievement of the performance target; provided that you are then still employed by the Company or any Affiliate: % of Shares Vesting* Achievement of Performance *Vesting between performance levels will be determined based on straight line interpolation. Acknowledgement By signing below, you hereby make the following acknowledgements and agreements. You acknowledge that you have reviewed (i) the terms and conditions of this Restricted Stock Agreement and (ii) the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and are familiar with the provisions thereof. You acknowledge that a Prospectus relating to the Plan was made available to you for review. You hereby accept this Award subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan and Restricted Stock Agreement. You hereby agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan. You acknowledge that the grant and acceptance of this Award do not constitute an employment agreement and do not assure your continuous employment with Micron Technology, Inc., its affiliated companies, or subsidiaries. You authorize Micron Technology, Inc. to release your Social Security Number or Global ID and address information to the Companys Broker who has agreed to provide brokerage service for stock plan participants for the purposes of opening an account under your name. MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC. a Delaware Corporation Signature: ___________________________________ /s/ Patrick T. Otte Patrick T. Otte Date: _______________________________________ Vice President, Human Resources Date: MM/DD/YYYY RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. Grant of Shares . The Company hereby grants to the Grantee named on the Notice of Award (Grantee), subject to the restrictions and the other terms and conditions set forth in the Micron Technology, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the Plan) and in this award agreement (this Agreement), the number of shares indicated on the Notice of Award of the Companys $0.10 par value common stock (the Shares). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. 2. Restrictions . The Shares are subject to each of the following restrictions. Restricted Shares mean those Shares that are subject to the restrictions imposed hereunder and such restrictions have not then expired or terminated. Restricted Shares may not be sold, transferred, exchanged, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered. If Grantees service as a director of the Company or employment with the Company or any Affiliate terminates for any reason other than as set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 3 hereof, then Grantee shall forfeit all of Grantees right, title and interest in and to the Restricted Shares as of the date of termination of such service or employment, and such Restricted Shares shall revert to the Company. The restrictions imposed under this Section shall apply to all shares of the Companys Stock with respect to the Restricted Shares or other securities issued in connection with any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, stock dividend or other change in corporate structure affecting the Stock of the Company. 3. Expiration and Termination of Restrictions . The restrictions imposed under Section 2 will expire, in whole or in part as indicated below, on the earliest to occur of the following (the period prior to such expiration being referred to herein as the Restricted Period): (a) as to the following number of Shares, upon achievement of the performance goal; provided that Grantee is then still employed by the Company or any Affiliate: % of Shares Vesting* Achievement of Performance *Vesting between performance levels will be determined based on straight line interpolation. [Insert definition of Performance Period]. The restrictions will expire, as to the applicable number of Shares based upon the level of achievement of the performance goal, on the date of the certification of the level of achievement of the performance goal and approval of the expiration of the restrictions as to the applicable number of Shares, provided that Grantee is then still employed by the Company or any Affiliate. (b) If Grantees service as a director of the Company or employment by the Company and all Affiliates is terminated during the Performance Period by reason of death or Disability, the number of Shares for which the restrictions shall expire shall be determined by multiplying (i) the number of Shares for which restrictions would have expired if the performance target in this Section 3 were fully satisfied, less any Shares for which restrictions had previously expired, by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period preceding the date of the termination due to death or Disability and the denominator of which is [days in performance period.] (c) If a Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period and while Grantee remains employed, the number of Shares for which the restrictions shall expire shall be determined by multiplying (i) the number of Shares for which Restrictions would have expired if the performance goals in this Section 3 were fully satisfied,) less any Shares for which Restrictions had previously expired, by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period preceding the date of the Change in Control and the denominator of which is [days in performance period]. Grantee shall forfeit all of Grantees right, title and interest in and to any of the Restricted Shares for which the restrictions shall not have lapsed as of the end of the Performance Period and such Restricted Shares shall revert to the Company. 4. Delivery of Shares . The Shares will be registered in the name of Grantee as of the Grant Date and will be held by the Company during the Restricted Period in certificated or uncertificated form. If a certificate for Restricted Shares is issued during the Restricted Period with respect to such Shares, such certificate shall be registered in the name of Grantee and shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture and restrictions against transfer) contained in a Restricted Stock Agreement between the registered owner of the shares represented hereby and Micron Technology, Inc. Release from such terms and conditions shall be made only in accordance with the provisions of such Agreement, copies of which are on file in the offices of Micron Technology, Inc. Stock certificates for the Shares, without the above legend, shall be delivered to Grantee or Grantees designee upon request of Grantee after the expiration of the Restricted Period, but delivery may be postponed for such period as may be required for the Company with reasonable diligence to comply if deemed advisable by the Company, with registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, listing requirements under the rules of any stock exchange, and requirements under any other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or transfer of the Shares. 5. Voting and Dividend Rights . Grantee, as beneficial owner of the Shares, shall have full voting rights with respect to the Shares during and after the Restricted Period. Grantee shall accrue cash and non-cash dividends, if any, paid with respect to the Restricted Shares, but the payment of such dividends shall be deferred and held (without interest) by the Company for the account of Grantee until the expiration of the Restricted Period. During the Restricted Period, such dividends shall be subject to the same vesting restrictions imposed under Section 2 as the Restricted Shares to which they relate. Accrued dividends deferred and held pursuant to the foregoing provision shall be paid by the Company to Grantee promptly upon the expiration of the Restricted Period (and in any event within thirty (30) days of the date of such expiration). 6. Changes in Capital Structure . In the event of a corporate event or transaction involving the Company (including, without limitation, any stock dividend, stock split, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares), the Committee may adjust this award to preserve the benefits or potential benefits of this award. Without limiting the foregoing, in the event of a subdivision of the outstanding Stock (stock split), a declaration of a dividend payable in Stock, or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Stock into a lesser number of Shares, the Shares then subject to this Agreement shall automatically be adjusted proportionately. 7. No Right of Continued Employment . With respect to a grantee who is employed by the Company or an Affiliate, nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate to terminate such grantees employment at any time, nor confer upon any such grantee any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. 8. Payment of Taxes . Upon issuance of the Shares hereunder, Grantee may make an election to be taxed upon such award under Section 83(b) of the Code. Grantee will, no later than the date as of which any amount related to the Shares first becomes includable in Grantees gross income for federal income tax purposes, pay to the Company, or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Committee regarding payment of, any federal, state and local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount. The Committee may permit Grantee to surrender to the Company a number of Shares from this Award as necessary to pay the minimum applicable withholding tax obligation. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company, and, where applicable, its Affiliates will, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to Grantee. 9. Amendment . The Committee may amend, modify or terminate the Award, Notice of Award and this Agreement without approval of the Grantee; provided, however, that such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without the Grantees consent, reduce or diminish the value of this Award determined as if it had been fully vested on the date of such amendment or termination. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company is authorized, without Grantees consent, to amend or interpret this Award, the Notice of Award and this Agreement certificate to the extent necessary, if any, to comply with Section 409A of the Code and Treasury regulations and guidance with respect to such law. 10. Plan Controls . The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of the Notice of Award and this Agreement and this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of the Notice of Award and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative. 11. Severability . If any one or more of the provisions contained in the Notice of Award and this Agreement is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of the Notice of Award and this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included. 12. Notice . Notices and communications under the Notice of Award and this Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Company must be addressed to: Micron Technology, Inc., 8000 S. Federal Way, P.O. Box 6, Boise, ID 83716-9632, Attn: Secretary, or any other address designated by the Company in a written notice to Grantee. Notices to Grantee will be directed to the address of Grantee then currently on file with the Company, or at any other address given by Grantee in a written notice to the Company. Micron Technology, Inc. 8000 S. Federal Way Mail Stop 557 Boise, ID 83716-9632 Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan Form of Agreement and Terms and Conditions Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (2004 Equity Incentive Plan) Notice of Award (Notice of Award) and Performance Unit Agreement Name: ID: Effective MM/DD/YYYY (Grant Date), you have been awarded performance units (the Performance Units) representing the right to earn, on a one-for-one basis, shares of Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) common stock (Shares). The Performance Units are subject to the following: 1. The terms and conditions of this Performance Unit Agreement and 2. The terms and conditions of the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. Please review the Performance Unit Agreement and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan carefully, as they contain the terms and conditions which govern your Performance Unit Award. In addition, a Prospectus summarizing the Plan and the Insider Trading Calendar and Policy are available for your review. The target number of Shares subject to this award is [______] (the Target Award). Depending on the Companys level of attainment of specified performance targets for the Performance Period (as defined in Section 2 of the Performance Unit Agreement), you may earn 0% to 200% of the Target Award, in accordance with the performance metrics described on Exhibit A hereto and terms and conditions of this Performance Unit Agreement. Acknowledgement By signing below, you hereby make the following acknowledgements and agreements. You acknowledge that you have reviewed (i) the terms and conditions of this Performance Unit Agreement and (ii) the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan and are familiar with the provisions thereof. You acknowledge that a Prospectus relating to the Plan was made available to you for review. You hereby accept this Award subject to all of the terms and provisions of the Plan and Performance Unit Agreement. You hereby agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan. You acknowledge that the grant and acceptance of this Performance Unit Award do not constitute an employment agreement and do not assure your continuous employment with Micron Technology, Inc., its affiliated companies, or subsidiaries. You authorize Micron Technology, Inc. to release your Social Security Number or Global ID and address information to the Companys Broker who has agreed to provide brokerage service for stock plan participants for the purposes of opening an account under your name. MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC. a Delaware Corporation Signature: ___________________________________ /s/ Patrick T. Otte Patrick T. Otte Date: _______________________________________ Vice President, Human Resources Date: MM/DD/YYYY PERFORMANCE UNIT AGREEMENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. Grant of Shares . The Company hereby grants to the Grantee named on the Notice of Award (Grantee), subject to the restrictions and the other terms and conditions set forth in the Micron Technology, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the Plan) and in this award agreement (this Agreement), the target number of performance units indicated on the Notice of Award (the Performance Units) representing the right to earn, on a one-for-one basis, shares of Micron Technology, Inc. (the Company) $0.10 par value common stock (Shares). 2. Defined Terms . Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Plan. In addition, for purposes of this Agreement: (a) Confirmed Performance Units is defined in Exhibit A . (b) Conversion Date is defined in Exhibit A . (c) Final Payout Factor is defined in Exhibit A . (d) Performance Period means [______________]. (e) Target Award means the number of performance units granted pursuant to this Agreement, as indicated in the Notice of Award. (f) [Insert Performance Metric and definition] 3. Performance Units . The Performance Units have been credited to a bookkeeping account on behalf of Grantee. The Performance Units will be earned in whole, in part, or not at all, as provided on Exhibit A attached hereto. Any Performance Units that fail to vest in accordance with the terms of this Agreement will be forfeited and reconveyed to the Company without further consideration or any act or action by Grantee. 4. Conversion to Shares . Except as otherwise provided herein, the Confirmed Performance Units will be converted to actual unrestricted Shares (one Share per Confirmed Performance Unit) on the Conversion Date, provided that Grantee has remained continuously employed through the Conversion Date. These shares will be registered on the books of the Company in Grantees name as of the Conversion Date and stock certificates for the Shares shall be delivered to Grantee or Grantees designee upon request of Grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Grantees employment is terminated during the Performance Period by reason of death or Disability, then (A) the number of Performance Units earned shall be determined by multiplying (i) the Target Award, by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period preceding the date of the termination due to death or Disability and the denominator of which is [insert number of days in Performance Period] , and (B) any such earned Performance Units shall convert to Shares on the date of Grantees termination of employment. If Grantees employment is terminated during the Performance Period for any reason other than death or Disability, then Grantees Performance Units will be forfeited and reconveyed to the Company without further consideration or any act or action by Grantee. 5. Change in Control . If a Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period and while Grantee remains employed, the number of Performance Units earned shall be determined by multiplying (i) the Target Award, by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period preceding the effective date of the Change in Control and the denominator of which is [insert number of days in Performance Period] . 6. Restrictions on Transfer and Pledge . No right or interest of Grantee in the Performance Units may be pledged, encumbered, or hypothecated or be made subject to any lien, obligation, or liability of Grantee to any other party other than the Company. The Performance Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise disposed of by Grantee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. 7. Restrictions on Issuance of Shares . If at any time the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, that registration, listing or qualification of the Shares underlying the Performance Units upon any securities exchange or similar self-regulatory organization or under any foreign, federal, or local law or practice, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition to the settlement of the Performance Units, stock units will not be converted to Shares in whole or in part unless and until such registration, listing, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. 8. Limitation of Rights . The Performance Units do not confer to Grantee or Grantees beneficiary, executors or administrators any rights of a shareholder of the Company unless and until Shares are in fact issued to such person in connection with the units. Nothing in this Agreement shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company to terminate Grantees employment at any time, nor confer upon Grantee any right to continue in employment of the Company. 9. Dividend Rights . If any dividends or other distributions are paid with respect to the Shares while the Performance Units are outstanding, the dollar amount or fair market value of such dividends or distributions with respect to the number of Shares then underlying the Performance Units shall be credited to a bookkeeping account and held (without interest) by the Company for the account of Grantee until the Conversion Date. Such amounts shall be subject to the same vesting and forfeiture provisions as the Performance Units to which they relate. Accrued dividends held pursuant to the foregoing provision shall be paid by the Company to Grantee on the Conversion Date, provided Grantee is then still employed by the Company. 10. Payment of Taxes . The Company employing Grantee has the authority and the right to deduct or withhold, or require Grantee to remit to the employer, an amount sufficient to satisfy federal, state, and local taxes (including Grantees FICA obligation) required by law to be withheld with respect to any taxable event arising as a result of the vesting or settlement of the Performance Units. The withholding requirement may be satisfied, in whole or in part, by withholding Shares upon the settlement of the Performance Units having a Fair Market Value on the date of withholding equal to the minimum amount (and not any greater amount) required to be withheld for tax purposes. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company will, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to Grantee. 11. Amendment . The Committee may amend, modify or terminate this Agreement without approval of Grantee; provided, however, that such amendment, modification or termination shall not, without Grantees consent, reduce or diminish the value of this award determined as if it had been fully vested on the date of such amendment or termination. 12. Plan Controls . The terms contained in the Plan are incorporated into and made a part of the Notice of Award and this Agreement and this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the Plan. In the event of any actual or alleged conflict between the provisions of the Plan and the provisions of the Notice of Award and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall be controlling and determinative. 13. Governing Law . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, United States of America, regardless of the law that might be applied under principles of conflict of laws. 14. Severability . If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement will be construed and enforced as if the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been included. 15. Notice . Notices and communications under the Notice of Award and this Agreement must be in writing and either personally delivered or sent by registered or certified United States mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. Notices to the Company must be addressed to: Micron Technology, Inc., 8000 S. Federal Way, P.O. Box 6, Boise, ID 83716-9632, Attn: Secretary, or any other address designated by the Company in a written notice to Grantee. Notices to Grantee will be directed to the address of Grantee then currently on file with the Company, or at any other address given by Grantee in a written notice to the Company. Exhibit A Performance Units The Performance Units will be earned, in whole or in part, based on (i) Grantees continued employment with the Company, and (ii) [the achievement of the performance metric] over the Performance Period, as follows: [Performance Metric] Payout Factor: % of Target Award Earned (1) (1) Payouts between performance levels will be determined based on straight line interpolation. Determination of Payout . No later than 60 days after the end of the Performance Period (the Confirmation Date), the Committee shall determine and certify (i) [the results of the performance metric] , and (ii) the resulting payout factor as set forth above (the Final Payout Factor). The Target Award shall be multiplied by the Final Payout Factor to determine the number of Performance Units earned and vested (Confirmed Performance Units). Payout Timing (Conversion to Shares) . The Confirmed Performance Units shall automatically convert to Shares on the Confirmation Date (the Conversion Date); provided that Grantee has remained continuously employed through the Conversion Date. EX-21.1 4 a2014q4ex211subsidiariesof.htm EXHIBIT 21.1 2014 Q4 EX 21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant EXHIBIT 21.1 MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC. SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT Name State (or Jurisdiction) in which Organized IM Flash Technologies, LLC Delaware Micron Japan, Ltd. (1) Japan Micron Memory Japan, Inc. Japan Micron Memory Taiwan Co., Ltd. Taiwan Micron Semiconductor Asia Pte. Ltd. (1) Singapore Micron Semiconductor B.V. Netherlands Micron Semiconductor Products, Inc. (1) Idaho Micron Semiconductor (Xian) Co., Ltd. China (1) Also does business as Micron Consumer Products Group EX-23.1 5 a2014q4ex231pwcconsent.htm EXHIBIT 23.1 2014 Q4 EX 23.1 PwC Consent Exhibit 23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-143026, 333-158473) and S-8 (File Nos. 333-17073, 333-50353, 333-71249, 333-102545, 333-103341, 333-111170, 333-120620, 333-133667, 333-135459, 333-140091, 333-148357, 333-159711, 333-167536, 333-167536a, 333-171717, 333-179592, 333-190010, 333-196293) of Micron Technology, Inc. of our report dated October 27, 2014 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedules and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Jose, CA October 27, 2014 EX-31.1 6 a2014q4ex31-1ceocert.htm EXHIBIT 31.1 2014 Q4 EX 31-1 CEO Cert. EXHIBIT 31.1 RULE 13a-14(a) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER I, D. Mark Durcan, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Micron Technology, Inc.; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure