Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016, and our Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. Our strategy is to build best-in-class platforms and productivity services for a mobile-first, cloud-first world. We develop, license, and support a wide range of software products, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to peoples lives. We generate revenue by licensing and supporting an array of software products, by offering a wide range of services, including cloud-based services , to consumers and businesses, by designing, manufacturing, and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes. Highlights* from the second quarter of fiscal year 2017 included: Commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate** exceeded $14.0 billion. Office Commercial revenue grew 5%, driven by Office 365 commercial revenue growth of 47%. Office Consumer revenue grew 22%, and Office 365 consumer subscribers increased to 24.9 million. Microsoft Dynamics (Dynamics) revenue grew 7%, driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth. Server products and cloud services revenue grew 12%, driven by Microsoft Azure (Azure) revenue growth. Azure revenue grew 93%, with Azure compute usage more than doubling year-over-year. Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (Windows OEM) revenue increased 5%. Windows Commercial revenue grew 5%, driven by multi-year agreement revenue. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, grew 10%, driven by increased revenue per search and search volume. * Highlights are presented based on segment results. ** Commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate is calculated by multiplying revenue for the last month of the quarter by twelve for Office 365 commercial, Azure, Dynamics 365, and other cloud properties. 35 PART I Item 2 On December 8 , 2016, we completed our acquisition of LinkedIn Corporation (LinkedIn) for a preliminary total purchase price of $27.0 billion . LinkedIn has been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of the acquisition. See No te 8 Business Combinations in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. In November 2016, we completed the sale of our feature phone business for $350 million. In July 2015, we announced a plan to restructure our phone business to better focus and align resources. In May 2016, we announced plans to further streamline our smartphone hardware business. These changes in the phone business reinforce our strategy to create a vibrant Windows ecosystem with a single set of experiences across our first-party device family and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) offerings. Part of this strategy involves focusing our phone devices on a narrower range of customer categories and differentiating through the combination of hardware and software we are uniquely positioned to offer. As anticipated, our change in phone strategy resulted in a reduction in units sold and associated expenses in fiscal year 2016, and this trend is expected to continue in fiscal year 2017. Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services is dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies throughout fiscal year 2016, and continuing into fiscal year 2017, negatively impacted reported revenue and reduced reported expenses from our international operations. See a discussion of these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). Seasonality Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers. Reportable Segments The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Segment information appearing in Note 18 Segment Information in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) is also presented on this basis. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. During the periods presented, we reported 36 PART I Item 2 our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud , and More Personal Computing. LinkedIn is reported as part of our Productivity and Business Processes segment. LinkedIn offers services that can be used by customers to transform the way they hire, market, sell, and learn on a global basis through Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 18 Segment Information in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue $ 24,090 $ 23,796 1% $ 44,543 $ 44,175 1% Gross margin $ 14,189 $ 13,924 2% $ 26,798 $ 27,096 (1)% Operating income $ 6,177 $ 6,026 3% $ 11,402 $ 11,819 (4)% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.66 $ 0.62 6% $ 1.26 $ 1.23 2% Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 Revenue increased $294 million or 1%, driven by growth in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud, offset in part by lower revenue from More Personal Computing and an increase in the net revenue deferral from Windows 10. Windows 10 revenue is primarily recognized at the time of billing in the More Personal Computing segment, and the deferral and subsequent recognition of revenue is reflected in Corporate and Other. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 and the acquisition of LinkedIn. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services. More Personal Computing revenue decreased, mainly due to lower revenue from Devices and Gaming, offset in part by higher revenue from Windows and Search advertising. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Operating income increased $151 million or 3%, primarily due to higher gross margin , offset in part by an increase in operating expenses . Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 4%. Gross margin increased $265 million or 2%, driven by higher revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue increased slightly, mainly due to growth in our commercial cloud, the acquisition of LinkedIn, and higher Search advertising traffic acquisition costs, offset in part by a reduction in phone sales. Research and development expenses increased $162 million or 6%, primarily due to increased strategic investments to drive cloud engineering and LinkedIn expenses, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $111 million or 3%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses and increased investments to drive sales capacity in our commercial cloud, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $159 million or 15%, primarily due to the benefit of a legal settlement in the current year, lower employee-related expenses, and a reduction in phone expenses, offset in part by LinkedIn expenses. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.66 for the three months ended December 31, 2016. Current year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by the net revenue deferral from Windows 10, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.17. Diluted EPS was $0.62 for the three months ended December 31, 2015. Prior year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by the net revenue deferral from Windows 10, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.14. 37 PART I Item 2 Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 Revenue increased $368 million or 1%, driven by growth in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud, offset in part by an increase in the net revenue deferral from Windows 10 and lower revenue from More Personal Computing. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from Office 365. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services. More Personal Computing revenue decreased, mainly due to lower revenue from Devices and Gaming, offset in part by higher revenue from Windows and Search advertising. Operating income decreased $417 million or 4%, primarily due to lower gross margin and an increase in operating expenses. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5%. Gross margin decreased $298 million or 1%, driven by higher cost of revenue, offset in part by higher revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $666 million or 4%, mainly due to growth in our commercial cloud and higher Search advertising traffic acquisition costs, offset in part by a reduction in phone sales. Research and development expenses increased $306 million or 5%, primarily due to increased strategic investments to drive cloud engineering and LinkedIn expenses, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $198 million or 9%, primarily due to the benefit of a legal settlement in the current year, lower employee-related expenses, and a reduction in phone expenses, offset in part by LinkedIn expenses. Diluted EPS was $1.26 for the six months ended December 31, 2016. Current year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by the net revenue deferral from Windows 10, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.33. Diluted EPS was $1.23 for the six months ended December 31, 2015. Prior year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by the net revenue deferral from Windows 10, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.23. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 7,382 $ 6,690 10% $ 14,040 $ 12,996 8% Intelligent Cloud 6,861 6,343 8% 13,243 12,235 8% More Personal Computing 11,823 12,473 (5)% 21,117 21,935 (4)% Corporate and Other (1,976 ) (1,710 ) (16)% (3,857 ) (2,991 ) (29)% Total revenue $ 24,090 $ 23,796 1% $ 44,543 $ 44,175 1% Operating income (loss) Productivity and Business Processes $ 3,256 $ 3,292 (1)% $ 6,376 $ 6,448 (1)% Intelligent Cloud 2,398 2,568 (7)% 4,456 4,959 (10)% More Personal Computing 2,499 1,876 33% 4,427 3,403 30% Corporate and Other (1,976 ) (1,710 ) (16)% (3,857 ) (2,991 ) (29)% Total operating income $ 6,177 $ 6,026 3% $ 11,402 $ 11,819 (4)% 38 PART I Item 2 Reportable Segments Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $692 million or 10%, primarily due to higher revenue from Office 365 and the acquisition of LinkedIn. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Office Commercial revenue increased $289 million or 5%, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 commercial, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. LinkedIn revenue was $228 million, primarily comprised of revenue from Talent Solutions and Marketing Solutions. Office Consumer revenue increased $156 million or 22%, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 consumer, mainly due to growth in subscribers. Dynamics revenue increased 7%, due to higher revenue from Dynamics 365. Operating income decreased slightly, primarily due to higher operating expenses, offset in part by an increase in gross margin. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Operating expenses increased $288 million or 13%, mainly due to LinkedIn expenses and investments in cloud engineering. Operating expenses included $310 million related to our acquisition of LinkedIn, including $52 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets. Sales and marketing expenses increased $165 million or 13%, and research and development expenses increased $129 million or 20%. Gross margin increased $252 million or 5%, driven by higher revenue, offset in part by higher cost of revenue. Cost of revenue increased $440 million or 37%, driven by an increased mix of cloud offerings and our acquisition of LinkedIn. Cost of revenue included $119 million related to our acquisition of LinkedIn, including $72 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $518 million or 8%, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Server products and cloud services revenue grew $577 million or 12%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 93%, and 5% growth in revenue from our server products licensed on-premises. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Enterprise Services revenue decreased 4%, driven by a decline in revenue from custom support agreements, offset in part by higher revenue from Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Operating income decreased $170 million or 7%, primarily due to higher operating expenses, offset in part by higher gross margin. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%. Operating expenses increased $264 million or 12%, mainly due to higher sales and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $154 million or 15% and research and development expenses increased $145 million or 19%, driven by strategic investments to drive cloud engineering, sales capacity, and developer engagement. Gross margin increased $94 million or 2%, driven by higher revenue, offset in part by higher cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Cost of revenue increased $424 million or 26%, primarily driven by investments to increase capacity and meet demand for the capabilities of our cloud offerings. More Personal Computing Revenue decreased $650 million or 5%, mainly due to lower revenue from Devices and Gaming, offset in part by higher revenue from Windows and Search advertising. Windows revenue increased $149 million or 3%, mainly due to higher revenue from Windows OEM and Windows Commercial, offset in part by lower revenue from patent licensing. Windows OEM revenue increased 5%. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 6%, slightly outperforming a strengthening commercial PC market, and Windows OEM non-Pro revenue grew 5%, outperforming the consumer PC market. 39 PART I Item 2 Windows Commercial revenue grew 5%, driven by renewals and a higher mix of premium multi-year agreements. P atent licensing revenue decreased 25%, mainly due to a decline in licensed units and license revenue per unit. Search advertising revenue increased $177 million or 12%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 10%, primarily driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume. Devices revenue decreased $914 million or 35%, mainly due to lower revenue from phones. Phone revenue decreased $878 million or 81%, driven by a reduction in volume of phones sold. Gaming revenue decreased $104 million or 3%, primarily due to lower Xbox hardware revenue, offset in part by higher revenue from Xbox software and services. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 22%, mainly due to lower prices of consoles sold and a decline in volume of consoles sold. Xbox software and services revenue increased 18%, driven by a higher volume of Xbox Live transactions and revenue per transaction. Operating income increased $623 million or 33%, due to lower operating expenses and higher gross margin. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 4%. Operating expenses decreased $438 million or 12%. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $208 million or 13%, driven by a reduction in phone expenses and Surface launch-related expenses in the prior year. General and administrative expenses decreased $118 million or 31%, driven by the benefit of a legal settlement in the current year and a reduction in phone expenses. Research and development expenses decreased $112 million or 8%, driven by a reduction in phone expenses. Gross margin increased $185 million or 3%, driven by lower cost of revenue, offset in part by lower revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Cost of revenue decreased $835 million or 12%, driven by a reduction in phone sales and lower Xbox hardware cost of revenue, offset in part by an increase in Xbox software and services cost of revenue and Search advertising traffic acquisition costs. Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $1.0 billion or 8%, primarily due to higher revenue from Office 365. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Office Commercial revenue increased $553 million or 5%, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 commercial, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%. LinkedIn revenue was $228 million, primarily comprised of revenue from Talent Solutions and Marketing Solutions. Office Consumer revenue increased $214 million or 15%, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 consumer, mainly due to growth in subscribers. Dynamics revenue increased 9%, due to higher revenue from Dynamics 365. Operating income decreased $72 million or 1%, primarily due to higher operating expenses, offset in part by higher gross margin. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%. Operating expenses increased $323 million or 7%, mainly due to LinkedIn expenses and investments in cloud engineering. Research and development expenses increased $216 million or 17%, and sales and marketing expenses increased $119 million or 5%. Gross margin increased $251 million or 2%, driven by higher revenue, offset in part by higher cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Cost of revenue increased $793 million or 35%, driven by an increased mix of cloud offerings. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $1.0 billion or 8%, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Server products and cloud services revenue grew $1.1 billion or 11%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 104%, and 4% growth in revenue from our server products licensed on-premises. Revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. 40 PART I Item 2 Enterprise Services revenue decreased 2 %, driven by a decline in revenue from custom support agreements, offset in part by higher revenue from Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Operating income decreased $503 million or 10%, primarily due to higher operating expenses, offset in part by higher gross margin. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%. Operating expenses increased $672 million or 16%, mainly due to higher sales and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $345 million or 18% and research and development expenses increased $341 million or 22%, driven by strategic investments to drive cloud engineering, sales capacity, and developer engagement. Gross margin increased $169 million or 2%, driven by higher revenue, offset in part by higher cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Cost of revenue increased $839 million or 27%, driven primarily by investments to increase capacity and meet demand for the capabilities of our cloud offerings. More Personal Computing Revenue decreased $818 million or 4%, mainly due to lower revenue from Devices and Gaming, offset in part by higher revenue from Windows and Search advertising. Windows revenue increased $162 million or 2%, mainly due to higher revenue from Windows OEM and Windows Commercial. Windows OEM revenue increased 3%. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 4%, generally in line with the commercial PC market, and Windows OEM non-Pro revenue grew 2%, outperforming the consumer PC market. Windows Commercial revenue grew 2%, driven by renewals and a higher mix of premium multi-year agreements. Search advertising revenue increased $586 million or 24%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 9%, primarily driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume. Devices revenue decreased $1.4 billion or 31%, mainly due to lower revenue from phones, offset in part by higher Surface revenue. Phone revenue decreased $1.7 billion or 76%, driven by a reduction in volume of phones sold. Surface revenue increased $223 million or 11%, primarily driven by a higher mix of premium devices sold. Gaming revenue decreased $214 million or 4%, primarily due to lower Xbox hardware revenue, offset in part by higher revenue from Xbox software and services. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 23%, mainly due to lower prices of consoles sold and a decline in volume of consoles sold. Xbox software and services revenue increased 13%, driven by a higher volume of Xbox Live transactions and revenue per transaction. Operating income increased $1.0 billion or 30%, due to lower operating expenses and higher gross margin. Operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 4%. Operating expenses decreased $876 million or 13%. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $453 million or 15%, driven by a reduction in phone expenses as well as Windows 10 and Surface launch-related expenses in the prior year. Research and development expenses decreased $251 million or 8%, driven by a reduction in phone expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $172 million or 22%, driven by a reduction in phone expenses and the benefit of a legal settlement in the current year. Gross margin increased $148 million or 1%, driven by lower cost of revenue, offset in part by lower revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Cost of revenue decreased $966 million or 8%, driven by a reduction in phone sales and lower Xbox hardware cost of revenue, offset in part by an increase in Search advertising traffic acquisition costs and Xbox software and services cost of revenue. Surface cost of revenue increased, primarily driven by a higher mix of premium devices sold. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other revenue is comprised of revenue deferrals related to Windows 10. Corporate and Other operating income (loss) is comprised of Windows 10 revenue deferrals and corporate-level activity not specifically allocated to a segment, including impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses. 41 PART I Item 2 Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 Revenue decreased and operating loss increased, due to a $266 million increase in the net revenue deferral from Windows 10. During the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we deferred net revenue from Windows 10 of $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 Revenue decreased and operating loss increased, due to an $866 million increase in the net revenue deferral from Windows 10. During the six months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, we deferred net revenue from Windows 10 of $3.9 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Research and development $ 3,062 $ 2,900 6% $ 6,168 $ 5,862 5% As a percent of revenue 13% 12% 1ppt 14% 13% 1ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code. Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 Research and development expenses increased $162 million or 6%, primarily due to increased strategic investments to drive cloud engineering and LinkedIn expenses, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses. Expenses included $82 million related to our acquisition of LinkedIn. Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 Research and development expenses increased $306 million or 5%, primarily due to increased strategic investments to drive cloud engineering and LinkedIn expenses, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales and marketing $ 4,071 $ 3,960 3% $ 7,304 $ 7,293 0% As a percent of revenue 17% 17% 0ppt 16% 17% (1)ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. 42 PART I Item 2 Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 Sales and marketing expenses increased $111 million or 3%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses and increased investments to drive sales capacity in our commercial cloud, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses. Expenses included $195 million related to our acquisition of LinkedIn, including $52 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets. Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 Sales and marketing expenses increased slightly, primarily due to increased investments to drive sales capacity in our commercial cloud and LinkedIn expenses, offset in part by a reduction in phone expenses and Windows 10 launch-related expenses in the prior year. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 General and administrative $ 879 $ 1,038 (15)% $ 1,924 $ 2,122 (9)% As a percent of revenue 4% 4% 0ppt 4% 5% (1)ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 General and administrative expenses decreased $159 million or 15%, primarily due to the benefit of a legal settlement in the current year, lower employee-related expenses, and a reduction in phone expenses, offset in part by LinkedIn expenses. Expenses included $33 million related to our acquisition of LinkedIn. Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 General and administrative expenses decreased $198 million or 9%, primarily due to the benefit of a legal settlement in the current year, lower employee-related expenses, and a reduction in phone expenses, offset in part by LinkedIn expenses. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended December 31, Six Months Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Dividends and interest income $ 311 $ 200 $ 604 $ 399 Interest expense (521 ) (309 ) (958 ) (558 ) Net recognized gains on investments 698 106 1,103 108 Net losses on derivatives (46 ) (156 ) (140 ) (259 ) Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (82 ) 2 (134 ) (34 ) Other (174 ) (14 ) (189 ) (107 ) Total $ 186 $ (171 ) $ 286 $ (451 ) We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are 43 PART I Item 2 generally economically offset by unrealized gains ( losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities and gains (losses) on certain balance sheet amounts from foreign exchange rate changes. Three months ended December 31, 2016 compared with three months ended December 31, 2015 Dividends and interest income increased primarily due to higher portfolio balances and yields. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments increased primarily due to higher gains on sales of equity securities. Other-than-temporary impairments were $21 million for the three months ended December 31, 2016, compared with $127 million in the prior year. Net losses on derivatives decreased due to gains on commodity derivatives in the current period as compared to losses in the prior period and lower losses on foreign currency and equity derivatives. Other reflects recognized losses from divestitures and certain joint ventures. Six months ended December 31, 2016 compared with six months ended December 31, 2015 Dividends and interest income increased primarily due to higher portfolio balances and yields. Interest expense increased due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments increased primarily due to higher gains on sales of equity securities. Other-than-temporary impairments were $39 million for the six months ended December 31, 2016, compared with $162 million in the prior year. Net losses on derivatives decreased due to lower losses on commodity and foreign currency derivatives, offset in part by losses on equity derivatives in the current period as compared to gains in the prior period. Other reflects recognized losses on divestitures and certain joint ventures. INCOME TAXES Our effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was 18% and 14%, respectively, and our effective tax rate for the six months ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 was 15% and 13%, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. This quarters effective tax rate was higher than the prior years second quarter effective tax rate, primarily due to changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries. The prior years second quarter effective tax rate also included a tax benefit related to the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S. research and development tax credit. The current year-to-date effective tax rate was higher than the prior year-to-date effective tax rate, primarily due to changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries. Tax contingencies and other income tax liabilities were $13.3 billion and $11.8 billion as of December 31, 2016 and June 30, 2016, respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily to current period intercompany transfer pricing and foreign tax credits. While we settled a portion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, and settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 during the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, we remain under audit for those years. We also continue to be subject to examination by the IRS for tax years 2010 to 2016. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of December 31, 2016, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2016, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. 44 PART I Item 2 FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $122.8 billion as of December 31, 2016, compared with $113.2 billion as of June 30, 2016. Equity and other investments were $8.9 billion as of December 31, 2016, compared with $10.4 billion as of June 30, 2016. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of December 31, 2016, $116.3 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was $2.2 billion. As of December 31, 2016, approximately 85% of the cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 3% were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, and approximately 4% were invested in U.S. mortgage- and asset-backed securities, all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. The remaining cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in foreign securities. Securities lending We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our consolidated balance sheets. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Collateral received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2016. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the three months ended December 31, 2016 were $719 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the six months ended December 31, 2016 were $615 million and $1.5 billion, respectively. Intra-year variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. government securities. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, common and preferred stock, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, U.S. government and agency securities, and certificates of deposit. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. 45 PART I Item 2 Cash Flows Cash from operations increased $3.3 billion to $17.8 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2016, mainly due to an increase in cash received from customers and an income tax refund for overpayment of estimated taxes. Cash from financing increased $21.8 billion to $17.3 billion, mainly due to a $21.3 billion increase in proceeds from issuances of debt, net of repayments, and a $474 million decrease in cash used for common stock repurchases, offset in part by a $481 million increase in dividends paid. Cash used in investing increased $24.8 billion to $33.2 billion, mainly due to a $24.0 billion increase in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangibles and other assets, a $771 million increase in cash used for additions to property and equipment, and a $682 million increase in cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, offset in part by a $639 million increase in cash from securities lending activities. Debt We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. See Note 11 Debt in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue as of December 31, 2016 was comprised mainly of unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue as of December 31, 2016 also included payments for: Windows 10 licenses; post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Office 365 subscriptions; Xbox Live subscriptions; LinkedIn; Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; bundled products and services; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2016: (In millions) Three Months Ending, March 31, 2017 $ 11,411 June 30, 2017 7,634 September 30, 2017 4,272 December 31, 2017 2,768 Thereafter 8,595 Total $ 34,680 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Share Repurchases On September 16, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share repurchases. This share repurchase program became effective on October 1, 2013, and was completed on December 22, 2016. On September 20, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing an additional $40.0 billion in share repurchases. This share repurchase program commenced on December 22, 2016 following completion of the prior program approved on September 16, 2013, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. As of December 31, 2016, no shares had been repurchased under this $40.0 billion share repurchase program. 46 PART I Item 2 During the three and six months ended December 31, 2016, we repurchased 59 million shares and 122 million shares of our common stock for $ 3.5 billion and $ 7.1 billion, respectively, through the share repurchase program a pproved on September 16, 2013. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Dividends See Note 16 Stockholders Equity in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. Additionally, we have agreed to cover damages resulting from breaches of certain security and privacy commitments in our cloud business. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt maturities, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE See Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part 1, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. 47 PART I Item 2 Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current products combined with rights to receive unspecified future versions of software products and are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period. Software updates are evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether they meet the definition of an upgrade, which may require revenue to be deferred and recognized when the upgrade is delivered. If it is determined that implied post-contract customer support (PCS) is being provided, revenue from the arrangement is deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. If updates are determined to not meet the definition of an upgrade, revenue is generally recognized as products are shipped or made available. Microsoft enters into arrangements that can include various combinations of software, services, and hardware. Where elements are delivered over different periods of time, and when allowed under U.S. GAAP, revenue is allocated to the respective elements based on their relative selling prices at the inception of the arrangement, and revenue is recognized as each element is delivered. We use a hierarchy to determine the fair value to be used for allocating revenue to elements: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence, and (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP). For software elements, we follow the industry-specific software guidance which only allows for the use of VSOE in establishing fair value. Generally, VSOE is the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately or the price established by management for a product that is not yet sold if it is probable that the price will not change before introduction into the marketplace. ESPs are established as best estimates of what the selling prices would be if the deliverables were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. Our process for determining ESPs requires judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Customers purchasing a Windows 10 license will receive unspecified updates and upgrades over the life of their Windows 10 device at no additional cost. As these updates and upgrades will not be sold on a stand-alone basis, we are unable to establish VSOE. Accordingly, revenue from licenses of Windows 10 is recognized ratably over the estimated life of the related device, which ranges between two to four years. We currently are evaluating the impact of the new standard related to revenue recognition, which we anticipate will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Impairment of Investment Securities We review investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or 48 PART I Item 2 circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significan t change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized on our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. 49 PART I Item 3