Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in Results of Operations regarding the future composition of the Companys reportable segments; in Gross Margin regarding future charges for inventory write-down; in Selling, General and Administrative regarding future legal expenses; in Stock-based Compensation regarding future costs to be recognized; in Liquidity and Capital Resources regarding capital spending in 2010, increases in the percentage of TECHs credit facility guaranteed by the Company, future distributions from IM Flash to Intel, future capital contributions to TECH and future purchases of Inotera shares; and in Recently Issued Accounting Standards regarding the impact from the adoption of new accounting standards. The Companys actual results could differ materially from the Companys historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in PART II. OTHER INFORMATION Item 1A. Risk Factors. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes and with the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 3, 2009. All period references are to the Companys fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. The Companys fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31. The Companys fiscal 2010, which ends on September 2, 2010, contains 53 weeks. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions. All production data includes production of the Company and its consolidated joint ventures and the Companys supply from Inotera. Overview The Company is a global manufacturer and marketer of semiconductor devices, principally DRAM and NAND Flash memory. In addition, the Company manufactures semiconductor components for CMOS image sensors and other semiconductor products. Its products are used in a broad range of electronic applications including personal computers, workstations, network servers, mobile phones and other consumer applications including Flash memory cards, USB storage devices, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and in automotive applications. The Company markets its products through its internal sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors primarily to original equipment manufacturers and retailers located around the world. The Companys success is largely dependent on the market acceptance of its diversified portfolio of semiconductor products, efficient utilization of the Companys manufacturing infrastructure, successful ongoing development of advanced process technologies and the return on research and development investments. The Company has made significant investments to develop the proprietary product and process technology that is implemented in its worldwide manufacturing facilities and through its joint ventures to enable the production of semiconductor products with increasing functionality and performance at lower costs. The Company generally reduces the manufacturing cost of each generation of product through advancements in product and process technology such as its leading-edge line-width process technology and innovative array architecture. The Company continues to introduce new generations of products that offer improved performance characteristics, such as higher data transfer rates, reduced package size, lower power consumption and increased memory density. To leverage its significant investments in research and development, the Company has formed various strategic joint ventures under which the costs of developing memory product and process technologies are shared with its joint venture partners. In addition, from time to time, the Company has also sold and/or licensed technology to other parties. The Company continues to pursue additional opportunities to recover its investment in intellectual property through partnering and other arrangements. In the second half of calendar 2009, the semiconductor memory industry experienced improving conditions following a severe prolonged downturn that resulted from a significant oversupply of products and challenging global economic conditions. Average selling prices per gigabit for the Companys DRAM and NAND Flash products increased 21% and 5%, respectively, for the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The Company reported net income attributable to Micron of $204 million for the first quarter of 2010. The Company recognized net losses attributable to Micron of $1.9 billion for 2009, $1.7 billion for 2008 and $331 million for 2007. Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting Standards: Effective at the beginning of 2010, the Company adopted new accounting standards for noncontrolling interests and certain convertible debt instruments. The impact of the retrospective adoption of the new accounting standards is summarized below. 25 Noncontrolling interests : Under the new standard, noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries is (1) reported as a separate component of equity in the consolidated balance sheets and (2) included in net income in the statement of operations. Convertible debt instruments : The new standard applies to convertible debt instruments that may be fully or partially settled in cash upon conversion and is applicable to the Companys 1.875% convertible senior notes with an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion issued in May 2007 (the Convertible Notes). The standard requires the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes to be stated separately. The liability component recognized at the issuance of the Convertible Notes equals the estimated fair value of a similar liability without a conversion option and the remainder of the proceeds received at issuance was allocated to equity. In connection therewith, at the May 2007 issuance of the Convertible Notes there was a $402 million decrease in debt, a $394 million increase in additional capital, and an $8 million decrease in deferred debt issuance costs (included in other noncurrent assets). In subsequent periods, the liability component recognized at issuance is increased to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes through the amortization of interest costs. Through 2009, $107 million of interest was amortized. (See Item 1. Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting Standards.) Results of Operations First Quarter Fourth Quarter 2010 % of net sales 2009 % of net sales 2009 % of net sales Net sales: Memory $ 1,623 93 % $ 1,222 87 % $ 1,179 91 % All Other 117 7 % 180 13 % 123 9 % $ 1,740 100 % $ 1,402 100 % $ 1,302 100 % Gross margin: Memory $ 442 27 % $ (502 ) (41 ) % $ 145 12 % All Other 1 1 % 53 29 % 24 20 % $ 443 25 % $ (449 ) (32 ) % $ 169 13 % Selling, general and administrative $ 97 6 % $ 102 7 % $ 82 6 % Research and development 137 8 % 178 13 % 139 11 % Restructure (1 ) (0 ) % (66 ) (5 ) % 12 1 % Other operating (income) expense, net 9 1 % 9 1 % (15 ) (1 ) % Equity in net losses of equity method investees (17 ) (1 ) % (5 ) (0 ) % (34 ) (3 ) % Net income (loss) attributable to Micron 204 12 % (718 ) (51 ) % (100 ) (8 ) % The Companys first quarter of 2010, which ended December 3, 2009, contained 13 weeks as compared to 13 weeks for the fourth quarter of 2009 and 14 weeks for the first quarter of 2009. In 2009, the Company had two reportable segments, Memory and Imaging. In the first quarter of 2010, Imaging no longer met the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and management does not expect that Imaging will meet the quantitative thresholds in future years. As a result, Imaging is no longer considered a reportable segment and is included in the Companys All Other nonreportable segments. Prior period amounts have been recast to reflect Imaging in All Other. Operating results of All Other primarily reflect activity of Imaging and also include activity of the Companys microdisplay and other operations. Net Sales Memory sales for the first quarter of 2010 increased 38% from the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 50% increase in sales of DRAM products and a 21% increase in sales of NAND Flash products. 26 In response to adverse market conditions, the Company shut down production of NAND for IM Flash at the Companys Boise fabrication facility beginning in the second quarter of 2009 and phased out the remainder of its 200mm DRAM production at the Boise fabrication facility in the second half of 2009. The Company will adjust utilization of 200mm wafer processing capacity as product demand varies. Sales of DRAM products for the first quarter of 2010 increased from the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 25% increase in gigabits sold and a 21% increase in average selling prices. Gigabit production of DRAM products increased 30% for the first quarter of 2010 from the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to additional supply received from the Companys Inotera joint venture, which ramped production of previously idle capacity. The Companys DRAM production also increased as a result of efficiencies achieved primarily through transitions to higher density, advanced geometry devices. Sales of DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM, the Companys highest volume products, were 45% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2010, 36% of total net sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 and 25% of net sales for the first quarter of 2009. The increase in DDR2 and DD3 DRAM sales in the first quarter of 2010 was primarily attributable to higher increases in average selling prices relative to the Companys other products and the increased supply from Inotera. The Company sells NAND Flash products in three principal channels: (1) to Intel Corporation (Intel) through its IM Flash consolidated joint venture at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost, (2) to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and other resellers and (3) to retail customers. Aggregate sales of NAND Flash products for the first quarter of 2010 increased 21% from the fourth quarter of 2009 and represented 33% of the Companys total net sales for the first quarter of 2010, 36% of total net sales for the fourth quarter of 2009 and 38% of net sales for the first quarter of 2009. Sales through IM Flash to Intel were $193 million for the first quarter of 2010, $156 million for the fourth quarter of 2009 and $318 million for the first quarter of 2009. For the first quarter of 2010, average selling prices for IM Flash sales to Intel decreased slightly due to reductions in costs per gigabit. However, gigabit sales to Intel were 27% higher in the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 30% increase in gigabit production of NAND Flash products over the same period as a result of the Companys continued transition to higher density NAND Flash products and other improvements in product and process technologies. Aggregate sales of NAND Flash products to the Companys OEM, reseller and retail customers were 20% higher for the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 14% increase in average selling prices and a 5% increase in gigabit sales. Average selling prices to the Companys OEM and reseller customers for the first quarter of 2010 increased 17% compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, while average selling prices of the Companys Lexar brand, directed primarily at the retail market, decreased 1% for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The Company has formed partnering arrangements under which it has sold and/or licensed technology to other parties. The Companys Memory segment recognized royalty and license revenue of $35 million in the first quarter of 2010, $34 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 and $36 million in the first quarter of 2009. Memory sales for the first quarter of 2010 increased 33% from the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 54% increase in sales of DRAM products and a 6% increase in sales of NAND Flash products. Sales of DRAM products for the first quarter of 2010 increased from the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 74% increase in gigabits sold partially offset by a 10% decline in average selling prices. The decline in average selling prices on sales of DRAM products was primarily attributable to a shift in product mix to a higher proportion of DDR2 and DDR3 DRAM products that realize significantly lower average selling prices per gigabit than sales of specialty DRAM products. Gigabit production of DRAM products increased approximately 67% for the first quarter of 2010 despite the shutdown of the Boise fabrication facility in the second half of 2009, primarily due to additional supply received from the Companys Inotera joint venture and production efficiencies from improvements in product and process technologies. Sales of NAND Flash products for the first quarter of 2009 increased 6% from the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to an increase of 57% in gigabits sold as a result of production increases partially offset by a decline of 32% in average selling prices per gigabit. Gigabit production of NAND Flash products increased 85% for the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to transitions to higher density, advanced geometry devices. 27 Gross Margin The Companys gross margin percentage for Memory products for the first quarter of 2010 improved to 27% from 12% for the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to improvements in the gross margins for both DRAM and NAND Flash products. Gross margins for Memory products in the first quarter of 2010 were positively affected by significant improvements in average selling prices as well as cost reductions for both DRAM and NAND Flash products. The Companys gross margins are impacted by charges to write down inventories to their estimated market values as a result of the significant decreases in average selling prices for both DRAM and NAND Flash products. As charges to write down inventories are recorded in advance of when inventories are sold, gross margins in subsequent reporting periods are higher than they otherwise would be. The impact of inventory write-downs on gross margins for all periods reflects inventory write-downs less the estimated net effect of prior period write-downs. The effects of inventory write-downs on Memory gross margins by period were as follows: First Quarter Fourth Quarter 2010 2009 2009 (amounts in millions) Inventory write-downs $ -- $ (369 ) $ -- Estimated effect of previous inventory write-downs 22 157 91 Net effect of inventory write-downs $ 22 $ (212 ) $ 91 In future periods, the Company will be required to record additional inventory write-downs if estimated average selling prices of products held in finished goods and work in process inventories at a quarter-end date are below the manufacturing cost of those products. Improvements in gross margins on sales of DRAM products for the first quarter of 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2009 were primarily due to the 21% increase in average selling prices and a 7% reduction in costs per gigabit. The reduction in DRAM costs per gigabit was primarily due to production efficiencies and to the elimination of Inotera underutilized capacity charges as Inotera ramped production. DRAM production costs for the fourth quarter of 2009 were adversely impacted by $30 million of underutilized capacity costs from Inotera. The Companys gross margin on sales of NAND Flash products for the first quarter of 2010 improved from the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to the 5% increase in overall average selling prices per gigabit and a 2% reduction in costs per gigabit. The reduction in NAND Flash costs per gigabit was primarily due to lower manufacturing costs as a result of increased production of higher-density, advanced-geometry devices, in particular from the Companys transition to 34nm process technology. Gross margins on sales of NAND Flash products reflect sales of approximately half of IM Flashs output to Intel at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost. The Companys gross margin percentage for Memory products improved to 27% for the first quarter of 2010 from negative 41% for the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to significant cost reductions and the net effects of inventory write-downs. The Companys gross margin on sales of DRAM products for the first quarter of 2010 improved from the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to a reduction in costs per gigabit partially offset by the decline in average selling prices per gigabit. The Companys gross margin on sales of NAND Flash products for the first quarter of 2010 improved from the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to a 62% reduction in costs per gigabit partially offset by the 32% decline in average selling prices per gigabit. Cost reductions in the first quarter of 2010 primarily reflect lower manufacturing costs. The Companys gross margin percentage for All Other segments declined in the first quarter of 2010 from the fourth and first quarters of 2009 primarily due to the conversion of Imaging operations to a wafer foundry manufacturing model in connection with the Companys sale of a 65% interest in Aptina Imaging Corporation (Aptina), previously a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, on July 10, 2009. Under the wafer foundry model, the Company sells all of its output of Imaging products to Aptina under a wafer supply agreement with pricing terms that generally result in lower gross margins than historically realized by the Company on sales of Imaging products to end customers. 28 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for the first quarter of 2010 increased 18% from the fourth quarter of 2009, primarily due to higher payroll expenses resulting from the accrual of incentive-based compensation costs as a result of improved operating results. SG&A expenses for the first quarter of 2010 decreased 5% from the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to lower Imaging SG&A costs as a result of the sale of 65% interest in Aptina in the fourth quarter of 2009 and one less week in the first quarter of 2010, partially offset by higher payroll expenses resulting from the accrual of incentive-based compensation costs. Future SG&A expense is expected to vary, potentially significantly, depending on, among other things, the number of legal matters that are resolved relatively early in their life-cycle and the number of legal matters that progress to trial. Research and Development Research and development (R&D) expenses vary primarily with the number of development wafers processed, the cost of advanced equipment dedicated to new product and process development, and personnel costs. Because of the lead times necessary to manufacture its products, the Company typically begins to process wafers before completion of performance and reliability testing. The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability. R&D expenses can vary significantly depending on the timing of product qualification as costs incurred in production prior to qualification are charged to R&D. R&D expenses for the first quarter of 2010 were relatively unchanged from the fourth quarter of 2009 as lower Imaging R&D costs resulting from the sale of a 65% interest in Aptina in the fourth quarter of 2009 were offset by higher payroll expenses resulting from the accrual of incentive-based compensation costs. R&D expenses were reduced by $26 million in the first quarter of 2010, $24 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 and $32 million in the first quarter of 2009 for amounts reimbursable from Intel under a NAND Flash R&D cost-sharing arrangement. R&D expenses for the first quarter of 2010 decreased 23% from the first quarter of 2009 primarily due to the sale of a 65% interest in Aptina in the fourth quarter of 2009. The Companys process technology research and development (R&D) efforts are focused primarily on development of successively smaller line-width process technologies which are designed to facilitate the Companys transition to next generation memory products. Additional process technology R&D efforts focus on the enablement of advanced computing and mobile memory architectures, the investigation of new opportunities that leverage the Companys core semiconductor expertise, and the development of new manufacturing materials. Product design and development efforts are concentrated on the Companys high density DDR3 and mobile products, as well as high density and mobile NAND Flash memory (including MLC technology), specialty memory products and memory systems. Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net Other operating (income) expense consisted of the following: First Quarter Fourth Quarter 2010 2009 2009 Losses from changes in currency exchange rates $ 21 $ 3 $ 5 (Gain) loss on disposals of property, plant and equipment (2 ) 14 (1 ) Loss (credit) on Aptina spinoff -- -- (12 ) Other (10 ) (8 ) (7 ) $ 9 $ 9 $ (15 ) 29 Interest Income/Expense As a result of the adoption of a new accounting standard for certain convertible debt, the Company modified its accounting for its 1.875% Convertible Senior notes. The Company retrospectively allocated the $1.3 billion aggregate principal amount outstanding at inception between a liability component (issued at a discount) and an equity component. The debt discount is being amortized from issuance through June 2014, the maturity date of the Senior Notes, with the amortization recorded as additional non-cash interest expense. As a result, the Company incurred additional non-cash interest expense of $13 million in the first quarter of 2010, $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, and $11 million in the first quarter of 2009. Interest expense for the first quarter of 2010, fourth quarter of 2009 and first quarter of 2009, includes aggregate amounts of non-cash amortization of debt discount and issuance costs of $20 million, $20 million and $15 million, respectively. (See Item 1. Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Retrospective Adoption of New Accounting Standards.) Other non-operating income (expense), net On August 3, 2009, Inotera sold common shares in a public offering at a price equal to 16.02 New Taiwan dollars per common share (approximately $0.49 U.S. dollars on August 3, 2009). As a result of the issuance, the Companys interest in Inotera decreased from 35.5% to 29.8% and the Company recognized a gain of $56 million in the first quarter of 2010 (including $33 million of Inotera Amortization). (See Item 1. Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Equity Method Investments Inotera.) Income Taxes Income taxes for the first quarter of 2010, fourth quarter of 2009 and first quarter of 2009 primarily reflect taxes on the Companys non-U.S. operations and U.S. alternative minimum tax. The Company has a valuation allowance for its net deferred tax asset associated with its U.S. operations. The benefit for taxes on U.S. operations in the first quarter of 2010, fourth quarter of 2009 and first quarter of 2009 was substantially offset by changes in the valuation allowance. Equity in Net Losses of Equity Method Investees In connection with its DRAM partnering arrangements with Nanya, the Company has investments in two Taiwan DRAM memory companies accounted for as equity method investments: Inotera and MeiYa. Inotera and MeiYa each have fiscal years that end on December 31. The Company recognizes its share of Inoteras and MeiYas quarterly earnings or losses on a two-month lag. The Company recognized losses from these equity method investments of $14 million for the first quarter of 2010, $34 million for the fourth quarter of 2009 and $5 million for the first quarter of 2009. As a result of its sale of a 65% interest in its Aptina subsidiary on July 10, 2009, the Companys investment in Aptina is accounted for as an equity method investment. The Companys shares in Aptina constitute 35% of Aptinas total common and preferred stock and 64% of Aptinas common stock. Under the equity method, the Company recognizes its share of Aptinas results of operations based on its 64% share of Aptinas common stock on a two-month lag. The Company recognized a loss of $3 million in the first quarter of 2010 for its investment in Aptina. (See Item 1. Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Equity Method Investments.) Noncontrolling Interests in Net (Income) Loss Noncontrolling interests for 2009, 2008 and 2007 primarily reflects the share of income or losses of the Companys TECH joint venture attributed to the noncontrolling interests in TECH. The Company purchased $99 million of TECH shares on February 27, 2009, $99 million of TECH shares on June 2, 2009, and $60 million of TECH shares on August 27, 2009. As a result, noncontrolling interests in TECH were reduced from approximately 27% as of August 28, 2008 to approximately 15% in August 2009. (See Item 1. Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements TECH Semiconductor Singapore Pte. Ltd.) 30 Stock-based Compensation Total compensation cost for the Companys equity plans for the first quarter of 2010, fourth quarter of 2009 and first quarter of 2009 was $31 million, $10 million and $9 million, respectively. Stock-based compensation expenses for the first quarter of 2010 increased from prior quarters primarily due to the accrual of performance-based stock compensation costs as a result of improved operating results. Stock compensation expenses fluctuate based on assessments of whether the achievement of performance conditions is probable for performance-based stock grants. As of December 3, 2009, $140 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards was expected to be recognized through the first quarter of 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 3, 2009, the Company had cash and equivalents and short-term investments totaling $1,565 million compared to $1,485 million as of September 3, 2009. The balance as of December 3, 2009, included $88 million held at the Companys IM Flash joint ventures and $73 million held at the Companys TECH joint venture. The Companys ability to access funds held by the joint ventures to finance the Companys other operations is subject to agreement by the joint venture partners, debt covenants and contractual limitations. Amounts held by TECH are not anticipated to be available to finance the Companys other operations. The Companys liquidity is highly dependent on average selling prices for its products and the timing of capital expenditures, both of which can vary significantly from period to period. Depending on conditions in the semiconductor memory market, the Companys cash flows from operations and current holdings of cash and investments may not be adequate to meet its needs for capital expenditures and operations. Historically, the Company has used external sources of financing to fund these needs. Due to conditions in the credit markets, it may be difficult to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the Company. Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $326 million for the first quarter of 2010 which reflected approximately $679 million generated from the production and sales of the Companys products partially offset by an increase in working capital of approximately $353 million. The increase in working capital was primarily due to a $324 million increase in receivables due to the higher level of sales and in an increase in the proportion of sales to original equipment manufacturers who generally have longer payment terms than other customers. Investing activities: Net cash used for investing activities was $25 million in the first quarter of 2010, which included cash expenditures of $62 million for property, plant and equipment. A significant portion of the capital expenditures related to IM Flash and TECH operations. The Company believes that to develop new product and process technologies, support future growth, achieve operating efficiencies and maintain product quality, it must continue to invest in manufacturing technologies, facilities and capital equipment and research and development. The Company expects that capital spending will be approximately $750 million to $850 million for 2010. As of December 3, 2009, the Company had commitments of approximately $300 million for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment, most of which is expected to be paid within one year. Financing activities: Net cash used for financing activities was $221 million in the first quarter of 2010, which includes $88 million of distributions to joint venture partners and $49 million in payments on equipment purchase contracts. Net cash used for financing activities also includes payments to reduce debt, net of proceeds received, of $80 million. (See Item 1. Financial Statements Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Supplemental Balance Sheet Information Debt.) TECHs credit facility contains covenants that, among other requirements, establish certain liquidity, debt service coverage and leverage ratios, and restrict TECHs ability to incur indebtedness, create liens and acquire or dispose of assets. In the first quarter of 2010, the debt covenants for TECHs credit facility were modified and as of December 3, 2009, TECH was in compliance with the covenants. In connection with the modification, the Company has guaranteed approximately 85% of the outstanding amount borrowed under TECHs credit facility and the Companys guarantee is expected to increase to 100% of the outstanding amount borrowed under the facility in April 2010. Under the terms of the credit facility, TECH had $60 million in restricted cash as of December 3, 2009. 31 Joint ventures: In the first quarter of 2010, IM Flash distributed $88 million to Intel and the Company expects that it will make additional distributions to Intel in 2010. Timing of these distributions and any future contributions, however, is subject to market conditions and approval of the partners. The Company made $258 million of capital contribution to TECH in 2009 and expects to make additional capital contributions to TECH in 2010. The timing and amount of these contributions is subject to market conditions. The shareholders agreement for the TECH joint venture expires in April 2011. In September 2009, TECH received a notice from HP that it does not intend to extend the TECH joint venture beyond April 2011. The Company is working with HP and Canon to reach a resolution of the matter. The parties inability to reach a resolution of this matter prior to April 2011 could result in the dissolution of TECH. On December 15, 2009, Inoteras Board of Directors approved the issuance of 640 million common shares. The issuance price was set on January 6, 2010 at 22.50 New Taiwan dollars per share ($0.70 U.S. dollars at January 6, 2010). The Company expects to purchase its allotted portion of the offering, estimated to be approximately 150 million shares. The actual number of shares purchased by the Company will vary depending on the number of shares purchased by Inoteras employees and other shareholders. Contractual obligations: As of December 3, 2009, contractual obligations for notes payable, capital lease obligations and operating leases were as follows: Total Remainder of 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter (amounts in millions) Notes payable 1 $ 2,718 $ 261 $ 452 $ 412 $ 34 $ 1,559 $ -- Capital lease obligations 1 628 151 282 52 21 21 101 Operating leases 71 14 15 11 11 7 13 1 Includes interest Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In May 2008, the FASB issued a new accounting standard for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion, including partial cash settlement. This standard requires that issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion separately account for the liability and equity components of such instruments in a manner such that interest cost will be recognized at the entitys nonconvertible debt borrowing rate in subsequent periods. The Company adopted this standard as of the beginning of 2010 and retrospectively accounted for its $1.3 billion of 1.875% convertible senior notes under the provisions of this guidance from the May 2007 issuance date of the notes. As a result, prior financial statement amounts were recast. (See Retrospective Adoption of Accounting Standards note.) In December 2007, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. This standard requires that (1) noncontrolling interests be reported as a separate component of equity, (2) net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interest be separately identified in the statement of operations, (3) changes in a parents ownership interest while the parent retains its controlling interest be accounted for as equity transactions and (4) any retained noncontrolling equity investment upon the deconsolidation of a subsidiary be initially measured at fair value. The Company adopted this standard as of the beginning of 2010. As a result of the retrospective adoption of the presentation and disclosure requirements, prior financial statement amounts were recast. (See Retrospective Adoption of Accounting Standards note.) In December 2007, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on business combinations, which establishes the principles and requirements for how an acquirer (1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, (2) recognizes and measures goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase and (3) determines what information to disclose. The Company adopted this standard effective as of the beginning of 2010. The adoption did not have a significant impact on the Companys financial statements. 32 In September 2006, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on fair value measurements and disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The Company adopted this standard effective as of the beginning of 2009 for financial assets and financial liabilities. The Company adopted this standard effective as of the beginning of 2010 for all other assets and liabilities. The adoptions did not have a significant impact on the Companys financial statements. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In June 2009, the FASB issued a new accounting standard on variable interest entities which (1) replaces the quantitative-based risks and rewards calculation for determining whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary in a variable interest entity with an approach that is primarily qualitative, (2) requires ongoing assessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and (3) requires additional disclosures about an enterprises involvement in variable interest entities . The Company is required to adopt this standard as of the beginning of 2011. The Company is evaluating the impact the adoption of this standard will have on its financial statements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and related disclosures. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted future events and various other assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. The Company evaluates its estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. Management believes the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of the Companys financial condition and results of operations and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. Acquisitions and consolidations: Determination and the allocation of the purchase price of acquired operations significantly influences the period in which costs are recognized. Accounting for acquisitions and consolidations requires the Company to estimate the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities acquired as well as various forms of consideration given, which involves a number of judgments, assumptions and estimates that could materially affect the amount and timing of costs recognized. The Company typically obtains independent third party valuation studies to assist in determining fair values, including assistance in determining future cash flows, appropriate discount rates and comparable market values. Determining whether or not to consolidate a variable interest entity may require judgment in assessing whether the Company is the entitys primary beneficiary. Contingencies: The Company is subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Considerable judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of any loss from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. The Company accrues a liability and charges operations for the estimated costs of adjudication or settlement of asserted and unasserted claims existing as of the balance sheet date. Income taxes: The Company is required to estimate its provision for income taxes and amounts ultimately payable or recoverable in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world. Estimates involve interpretations of regulations and are inherently complex. Resolution of income tax treatments in individual jurisdictions may not be known for many years after completion of any fiscal year. The Company is also required to evaluate the realizability of its deferred tax assets on an ongoing basis in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which requires the assessment of the Companys performance and other relevant factors when determining the need for a valuation allowance with respect to these deferred tax assets. Realization of deferred tax assets is dependent on the Companys ability to generate future taxable income. 33 Inventories: Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market value and the Company recorded charges of $603 million in aggregate for 2009 and $282 million in aggregate for 2008, to write down the carrying value of inventories of memory products to their estimated market values. Cost includes labor, material and overhead costs, including product and process technology costs. Determining market value of inventories involves numerous judgments, including projecting average selling prices and sales volumes for future periods and costs to complete products in work in process inventories. To project average selling prices and sales volumes, the Company reviews recent sales volumes, existing customer orders, current contract prices, industry analysis of supply and demand, seasonal factors, general economic trends and other information. When these analyses reflect estimated market values below the Companys manufacturing costs, the Company records a charge to cost of goods sold in advance of when the inventory is actually sold. Differences in forecasted average selling prices used in calculating lower of cost or market adjustments can result in significant changes in the estimated net realizable value of product inventories and accordingly the amount of write-down recorded. For example, a 5% variance in the estimated selling prices would have changed the estimated market value of the Companys semiconductor memory inventory by approximately $86 million at December 3, 2009. Due to the volatile nature of the semiconductor memory industry, actual selling prices and volumes often vary significantly from projected prices and volumes and, as a result, the timing of when product costs are charged to operations can vary significantly. U.S. GAAP provides for products to be grouped into categories in order to compare costs to market values. The amount of any inventory write-down can vary significantly depending on the determination of inventory categories. The Companys inventories have been categorized as Memory, Imaging and Microdisplay products. The major characteristics the Company considers in determining inventory categories are product type and markets. Product and process technology: Costs incurred to acquire product and process technology or to patent technology developed by the Company are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over periods currently ranging up to 10 years. The Company capitalizes a portion of costs incurred based on its analysis of historical and projected patents issued as a percent of patents filed. Capitalized product and process technology costs are amortized over the shorter of (1) the estimated useful life of the technology, (2) the patent term or (3) the term of the technology agreement. Property, plant and equipment: The Company reviews the carrying value of property, plant and equipment for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable from the estimated future cash flows expected to result from its use and/or disposition. In cases where undiscounted expected future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the assets. The estimation of future cash flows involves numerous assumptions which require judgment by the Company, including, but not limited to, future use of the assets for Company operations versus sale or disposal of the assets, future selling prices for the Companys products and future production and sales volumes. In addition, judgment is required by the Company in determining the groups of assets for which impairment tests are separately performed. Research and development: Costs related to the conceptual formulation and design of products and processes are expensed as research and development as incurred. Determining when product development is complete requires judgment by the Company. The Company deems development of a product complete once the product has been thoroughly reviewed and tested for performance and reliability. Subsequent to product qualification, product costs are valued in inventory. Stock-based compensation: Compensation cost for stock-based compensation is estimated at the grant date based on the fair-value of the award and is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period of the award. For stock-based compensation awards with graded vesting that were granted after 2005, the Company recognizes compensation expense using the straight-line amortization method. For performance-based stock awards, the expense recognized is dependent on the probability of the performance measure being achieved. The Company utilizes forecasts of future performance to assess these probabilities and this assessment requires considerable judgment. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires considerable judgment, including estimating stock price volatility, expected option life and forfeiture rates. The Company develops its estimates based on historical data and market information which can change significantly over time. A small change in the estimates used can result in a relatively large change in the estimated valuation. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option valuation model to value employee stock awards. The Company estimates stock price volatility based on an average of its historical volatility and the implied volatility derived from traded options on the Companys stock. 34