ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note About Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this report, other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including without limitation, the following sections: Business, Managements Discussion and Analysis, and Risk Factors. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, strategy, future, opportunity, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section titled Risk Factors (refer to Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW Managements discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2010 and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes (Notes) included in this Form 10-Q. We generate revenue by developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and services for many different types of computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for personal computers, servers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. We provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and developers. We also design and sell hardware, including the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console and accessories, the Zune digital music and entertainment device and accessories, and Microsoft PC hardware products. Online offerings and information are delivered to consumers through Bing, Windows Live, Microsoft Office Web Apps, our MSN portals and channels, and to businesses through Microsoft Online Services offerings, such as Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Online, Windows Azure, SQL Azure and SharePoint Online. We enable the delivery of online advertising across our broad range of digital media properties and on Bing through our proprietary adCenter platform. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division is particularly seasonal as its products are aimed at the consumer market and are in highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately 40% of its yearly segment revenues in our second fiscal quarter. In addition, quarterly revenues may be impacted by the deferral of revenue. See the discussions below regarding the deferral of revenue related to sales of Windows Vista with a guarantee to be upgraded to Windows 7 at minimal or no cost and of Windows 7 to retailers before general availability (the Windows 7 Deferral). All growth and percentage comparisons refer to the three months ended September 30, 2010, as compared with the three months ended September 30, 2009, unless otherwise noted. 27 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Summary (In millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Revenue $ 16,195 $ 12,920 25% Operating income $ 7,116 $ 4,482 59% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.62 $ 0.40 55% Revenue increased primarily due to strong sales of Windows 7, the 2010 Microsoft Office system, Server and Tools products, and the Xbox 360 console and video games. Revenue also increased due to the deferral in the prior year of approximately $1.5 billion of revenue related to the Windows 7 Deferral. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates had an insignificant impact on revenue. Operating income increased reflecting the change in revenue, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Key changes in operating expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $297 million or 10%, primarily reflecting higher online costs and increased volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold. General and administrative expenses increased $197 million or 27%, due mainly to increased legal charges and headcount-related expenses. Research and development expenses increased $131 million or 6%, due mainly to higher headcount-related expenses and third-party development and programming costs. Diluted earnings per share increased reflecting increased net income and the repurchase of 485 million shares during the 12 months ended September 30, 2010. Global macroeconomic factors have a strong correlation to demand for our software, services, hardware, and online offerings. The current macroeconomic factors remain dynamic and uncertain. Irrespective of global economic conditions, we are positive about our relative market position, our current product portfolio, and future product pipeline. Because we offer a wide range of products and services that enable companies to improve productivity and reduce costs, including cloud-based services, we believe that Microsoft is well-positioned to create new opportunities to increase revenue as the global economy improves. We remain focused on executing in the areas we can control by continuing to provide high value products at the lowest total cost of ownership while managing our expenses. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE/OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts in this section are presented on a basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP) and include certain reconciling items attributable to each of the segments. Segment information appearing in Note 16 Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item I of this Form 10-Q) is presented on a basis consistent with our current internal management reporting. Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from segment operating results and is analyzed separately. We have recast certain prior period amounts within this MD&A to conform to the way we internally managed and monitored segment performance during the current fiscal year. 28 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Windows & Windows Live Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Revenue $ 4,785 $ 2,880 66% Operating income $ 3,323 $ 1,483 124% Windows & Windows Live Division (Windows Division) offerings consist of premium and standard edition Windows operating systems, and online software and services through Windows Live. Premium Windows operating systems are those that include additional functionality and are sold at a price above our standard editions. Premium editions include Windows 7 Home Premium, Professional, Ultimate, and Enterprise, as well as Windows Vista Business, Home Premium, Ultimate, and Enterprise. Standard editions include Windows 7 Starter and Home Basic, Windows Vista Starter and Home Basic, and Windows XP Home. Windows Live primarily generates revenue from online advertising. Windows Division revenue growth is largely correlated to the growth of PC purchases from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that pre-install versions of Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for approximately 75% of total Windows Division revenue. The remaining approximately 25% of Windows Division revenue (other revenue) is generated by commercial and retail sales of Windows and online advertising from Windows Live. Windows Division revenue increased due to strong sales of Windows 7 and PC market growth. We estimate total worldwide PC shipments from all sources grew approximately 9% to 11%. OEM revenue increased $1.8 billion or 93%. Including revenue and units associated with the Windows 7 Deferral in the prior year, OEM revenue increased $364 million or 11%, while OEM license units increased 5%. The OEM revenue increase was driven by PC market growth, PC market strength among business customers, and the mix of versions of Windows licensed, partially offset by lower Windows attach rates in China and year-over-year changes in inventory in our distribution channels. Other revenue increased $125 million or 13%, driven primarily by commercial and retail sales of Windows 7. Windows Division operating income grew as a result of increased revenue, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Cost of revenue increased $22 million or 5%, primarily driven by higher traffic acquisition and royalty costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $22 million or 4% reflecting advertising and marketing of Windows and Windows Live. Server and Tools (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Revenue $ 3,959 $ 3,550 12% Operating income $ 1,630 $ 1,237 32% Server and Tools licenses products, applications, tools, content, and delivers Enterprise Services, all of which are designed to make information technology professionals, developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server and Tools product and service offerings consist of Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Windows Azure and other cloud and server offerings, and Windows Embedded device platforms. We also offer developer tools, training and certification. Enterprise Services comprise Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server product offerings can be run on-site, in a partner-hosted environment, or in a Microsoft-hosted environment. We use multiple sales channels, including pre-installed OEM versions, sales through partners and sales directly to end customers. Approximately 50% of Server and Tools revenue comes from annuity volume licensing agreements, approximately 30% is purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, retail packaged product and licenses sold to OEMs, and the remainder comes from Enterprise Services. Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth in product revenue and Enterprise Services revenue. Product revenue increased $343 million or 12%, driven primarily by growth in Windows Server, SQL Server, Enterprise CAL Suites and Windows Embedded revenue, reflecting continued adoption of Windows platform applications. Enterprise Services revenue grew $66 million or 9%, due to growth in both Premier product support services and consulting services. 29 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due to revenue growth, offset in part by a slight increase in operating expenses. Cost of revenue increased $55 million or 8%, reflecting higher costs associated with the delivery of services and online costs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $38 million or 4%, primarily due to lower corporate marketing and advertising expenses. Online Services Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Revenue $ 527 $ 487 8% Operating loss $ (560 ) $ (477 ) (17)% Online Services Division (OSD) offerings include Bing, MSN, and advertiser and publisher tools. OSD revenue increased primarily as a result of growth in online advertising revenue. Online advertising revenue grew $55 million or 13% to $473 million, reflecting higher search and owned and operated display advertising revenue, offset in part by decreased third party advertising revenue. OSD operating loss increased due to higher cost of revenue and research and development expenses, offset in part by increased revenue. Cost of revenue grew $74 million driven by costs associated with the Yahoo! search agreement, partially offset by decreased online traffic acquisition costs. Research and development expenses increased $61 million or 27%, primarily due to headcount-related expenses related to the search portion of the business. Microsoft Business Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Revenue $ 5,126 $ 4,514 14% Operating income $ 3,388 $ 2,827 20% Microsoft Business Division (MBD) offerings include the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed to increase personal, team, and organization productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Microsoft Office system offerings generate over 90% of MBD revenue. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications. We evaluate our results based upon the nature of the end user in two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. MBD revenue increased primarily reflecting sales of the 2010 Microsoft Office system, which was released during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010. Business revenue increased $396 million or 11%, primarily reflecting licensing of the 2010 Microsoft Office system to transactional business customers, growth in multi-year licensing revenue, and a 4% increase in Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Consumer revenue increased $216 million or 26% due to sales of the 2010 Microsoft Office system and growth in the PC market. MBD operating income increased due mainly to revenue growth, offset in part by higher cost of revenue. Cost of revenue increased $81 million or 30%, primarily driven by higher costs of providing services and increased traffic acquisition costs. 30 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Entertainment and Devices Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Revenue $ 1,795 $ 1,412 27% Operating income $ 382 $ 260 47% Entertainment and Devices Division (EDD) offerings include the Xbox 360 platform (which includes the Xbox 360 gaming and entertainment console, Xbox 360 video games, Xbox LIVE, and Xbox 360 accessories, including Kinect for Xbox 360 launching in November 2010), the Zune digital music and entertainment platform, PC game software, online games and services, Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), and Windows Phone. EDD revenue increased primarily reflecting higher Xbox 360 platform revenue. Xbox 360 platform revenue grew $409 million or 33%, primarily reflecting increased volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold and higher Xbox 360 video game revenue led by Halo Reach. We shipped 2.8 million Xbox 360 consoles during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared with 2.1 million Xbox 360 consoles during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Halo Reach launched in September 2010 generating approximately $350 million of revenue during the quarter. EDD operating income increased primarily reflecting revenue growth, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Cost of revenue increased $152 million or 19% primarily due to higher volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold. Research and development expenses increased $65 million or 30%, primarily reflecting higher headcount-related expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $39 million or 27% due mainly to increased Xbox 360 platform marketing activities. Corporate-Level Activity (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Corporate-level activity $ (1,047 ) $ (848 ) (23)% Certain corporate-level activity is not allocated to our segments, including costs of: broad-based sales and marketing; product support services; human resources; legal; finance; information technology; corporate development and procurement activities; research and development; and legal settlements and contingencies. Corporate-level expenses increased due mainly to a $113 million increase in legal charges and a 6% increase in headcount-related expenses. OPERATING EXPENSES Cost of Revenue (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Cost of revenue $ 3,139 $ 2,842 10% As a percent of revenue 19 % 22 % (3)ppt Cost of revenue includes: manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed; operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers; costs incurred to include software on PCs sold by OEMs, to drive traffic to our Web sites and to acquire online advertising space (traffic acquisition costs); costs incurred to support and maintain Internet-based products and services; warranty costs; inventory valuation adjustments; costs associated with the delivery of consulting services; and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs. Cost of revenue increased primarily due to higher online costs and increased volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold. 31 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Research and development $ 2,196 $ 2,065 6% As a percent of revenue 14 % 16 % (2)ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content. Research and development expenses increased, primarily reflecting a 5% increase in headcount-related expenses and higher third-party development and programming costs. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Sales and marketing $ 2,806 $ 2,790 1% As a percent of revenue 17 % 22 % (5)ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses increased slightly, primarily reflecting increased advertising and marketing of Windows and Windows Live and the Xbox 360 platform, offset in part by decreased corporate marketing and advertising expenses. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 General and administrative $ 938 $ 741 27% As a percent of revenue 6 % 6 % 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to increased legal charges, as discussed under Corporate-Level Activity above, and an increase in headcount-related expenses. 32 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 OTHER INCOME AND INCOME TAXES Other Income The components of other income were as follows: (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2010 2009 Dividends and interest income $ 210 $ 203 3% Interest expense (45 ) (38 ) (18)% Net recognized gains on investments 34 70 (51)% Net losses on derivatives (5 ) (4 ) (25)% Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (42 ) 55 * Other (38 ) (3 ) * Total $ 114 $ 283 (60)% * Not meaningful Dividends and interest income increased slightly due to higher average portfolio investment balances, offset in part by lower yields on our fixed-income investments. Interest expense increased due to our increased issuance of debt. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to fewer gains on sales of investments in the current period as compared to the prior period. Net losses on foreign currency remeasurements increased primarily due to currency movements net of our hedging activities. Income Taxes Our effective tax rates were approximately 25% for the three months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $44.2 billion as of September 30, 2010, compared with $36.8 billion as of June 30, 2010. Our short-term investments are primarily to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of investment grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Equity and other investments were $9.2 billion as of September 30, 2010, compared with $7.8 billion as of June 30, 2010. While we own certain mortgage-backed and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio as of September 30, 2010 does not contain direct exposure to subprime mortgages or structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority of our mortgage-backed securities are collateralized by prime residential mortgages and carry a 100% principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $909 million as of September 30, 2010. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the three months ended September 30, 2010 were $1.7 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. Intra-quarter variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, 33 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. treasuries. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and agency securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally labeled as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Debt In September 2010, we issued $4.75 billion of debt securities. See further discussion of these securities under Notes below. As of September 30, 2010, we had $10.7 billion of issued and outstanding debt comprising $1.0 billion of commercial paper and $9.7 billion of long-term debt, including $1.3 billion of convertible debt. Short-term Debt As of September 30, 2010, our $1.0 billion of commercial paper issued and outstanding had a weighted average interest rate, including issuance costs, of 0.19% and maturities of 29 to 42 days. The estimated fair value of this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. We have a $1.0 billion 364-day credit facility, which expires on November 5, 2010, and which serves as a back-up for our commercial paper program. As of September 30, 2010, we were in compliance with the financial covenant in the credit facility agreement, which requires a coverage ratio be maintained of at least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization to interest expense. No amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any of the periods presented. Long-term Debt Notes As of September 30, 2010, we had issued and outstanding $8.5 billion of debt securities as follows: $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 0.875% notes due 2013, $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.95% notes due 2014, $1.75 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.625% notes due 2015, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.20% notes due 2019, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.0% notes due 2020, $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.20% notes due 2039, and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.5% notes due 2040, (collectively the Notes). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. Convertible Debt In June 2010, we issued $1.25 billion of zero coupon convertible unsecured debt due on June 15, 2013 in a private placement offering. Proceeds from the offering were $1.24 billion, net of fees and expenses, which were capitalized. Each $1,000 principal amount of notes is convertible into 29.94 shares of Microsoft common stock at a conversion price of $33.40 per share. 34 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Prior to March 15, 2013, the notes will be convertible, only in certain circumstances, into cash and, if applicable, cash, shares of Microsofts common stock or a combination thereof, at our election. On or after March 15, 2013, the notes will be convertible at any time. Upon conversion, we will pay cash up to the aggregate principal amount of the notes and pay or deliver cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. Because the convertible debt may be wholly or partially settled in cash, we are required to separately account for the liability and equity components of the notes in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt borrowing rate when interest costs are recognized in subsequent periods. The net proceeds of $1.24 billion were allocated between debt for $1.18 billion and stockholders equity for $58 million with the portion in stockholders equity representing the fair value of the option to convert the debt. In connection with the issuance of the notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain option counterparties who are initial purchasers of the notes or their affiliates. The capped call transactions are expected to reduce potential dilution of earnings per share upon conversion of the notes. Under the capped call transactions, we purchased from the option counterparties capped call options that in the aggregate relate to the total number of shares of our common stock underlying the notes, with a strike price equal to the conversion price of the notes and with a cap price equal to $37.16. The purchased capped calls were valued at $40 million and recorded to stockholders equity. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue at September 30, 2010 comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each billing coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Unearned revenue at September 30, 2010 also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future, Xbox LIVE subscriptions; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; unspecified upgrades/enhancements of Microsoft Internet Explorer on a when-and-if-available basis for Windows XP; technology guarantee programs, including the 2010 Microsoft Office technology guarantee program; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of September 30, 2010: (In millions) Three Months Ending, December 31, 2010 $ 5,694 March 31, 2011 3,939 June 30, 2011 2,347 September 30, 2011 787 Thereafter 1,152 Total $ 13,919 Cash Flows Cash flows from operations increased $2.1 billion to $8.2 billion due mainly to increased revenue and cash collections, partially offset by a decrease in unearned revenue. Cash used in financing decreased $1.6 billion to $639 million due mainly to $4.7 billion of proceeds from issuances of long-term debt in the current quarter, partially offset by a $2.9 billion increase in common stock repurchases. Cash used in investing increased $3.8 billion to $5.0 billion due mainly to a $2.5 billion increase in cash used for combined investment purchases, sales, and maturities and a $1.1 billion decrease in cash from securities lending. Share Repurchases During the three months ended September 30, 2010, we repurchased approximately 163 million shares of Microsoft common stock for $4.0 billion under the repurchase plan we announced on September 22, 2008. All repurchases 35 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 were made using cash resources. As of September 30, 2010, approximately $19.7 billion remained of the $40.0 billion approved repurchase amount. The repurchase program expires September 30, 2013 but may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. Dividends Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the periods presented: Declaration Date Per Share Dividend Record Date Total Amount Payment Date (in millions) September 21, 2010 $ 0.16 November 18, 2010 $ 1,370 December 9, 2010 September 18, 2009 $ 0.13 November 19, 2009 $ 1,152 December 10, 2009 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. To date, we have not encountered significant costs as a result of these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to these indemnifications in our financial statements. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. We believe existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should be sufficient to meet operating requirements, regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance of a balance sheet with a large component of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views on potential future capital requirements relating to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges to our business model. We regularly assess our investment management approach in view of our current and potential future needs. We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. While we currently do not foresee a need to repatriate funds, should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations locally, we could elect to repatriate funds held in foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates or increased interest expense. As a result of the special dividend paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 and shares repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $15.0 billion at September 30, 2010. Our retained deficit is not expected to affect our future ability to operate, pay dividends, or repay our debt given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance On July 1, 2010, we adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) on revenue recognition. Under the new guidance on arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential to the functionality of the tangible product are no longer within the scope of 36 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products are now subject to other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence or third party evidence for deliverables in an arrangement cannot be determined, a best estimate of the selling price is required to separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. The new guidance includes new disclosure requirements on how the application of the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. On July 1, 2010, we adopted new guidance issued by the FASB on the consolidation of variable interest entities. The new guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. Adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance to amend the disclosure requirements related to fair value measurements. The guidance requires the disclosure of roll forward activities on purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value measurements). The guidance will become effective for us with the reporting period beginning July 1, 2011. Other than requiring additional disclosures, the adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, stock-based compensation, and product warranties. Revenue Recognition Software revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether a software arrangement includes multiple elements, and if so, whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for those elements. A portion of revenue may be recorded as unearned due to undelivered elements. The amount of revenue allocated to undelivered elements is based on the VSOE of fair value for those elements using the residual method or relative fair value method, and the deferred revenue is recognized as the elements are delivered. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and changes to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Impairment of Investment Securities Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. 37 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure of a contingency is required if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be impacted. 38 Table of Contents PART I Item 2, 3 Product Warranties We provide for the estimated costs of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized. For hardware warranty, we estimate the costs based on historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge of specific product failures (if any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country in which we do business, but generally include parts and labor over a period generally ranging from 90 days to three years. For software warranty, we estimate the costs to provide bug fixes, such as security patches, over the life of the software. We regularly reevaluate our estimates to assess the adequacy of the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts as necessary.