Item 7. Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview.") Business Segments We have the following four reportable segments: NAND Solutions Group ("NSG"): Includes high-volume NAND Flash products sold into data storage, personal music players and the high-density computing market, as well as NAND Flash products sold to Intel Corporation ("Intel") through IM Flash. DRAM Solutions Group ("DSG"): Includes DRAM products sold to the PC, consumer electronics, networking and server markets. Wireless Solutions Group ("WSG"): Includes DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products, including multi-chip packages, sold to the mobile device market. Embedded Solutions Group ("ESG"): Includes DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash products sold into automotive and industrial applications, as well as NOR and NAND Flash sold to consumer electronics, networking, PC and server markets. Our other operations do not meet the quantitative thresholds of a reportable segment and are reported under All Other. Products NAND Flash Memory NAND Flash products are electrically re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor memory devices that retain content when power is turned off. NAND Flash sales were 44%, 36% and 30% of our total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. NAND Flash products are sold by our NSG, WSG and ESG segments. NAND Flash is ideal for mass-storage devices due to its fast erase and write times, high density and low cost per bit relative to other solid-state memories. Removable storage devices, such as USB and Flash memory cards, are used with applications such as PCs, digital still cameras, MP3/4 players and mobile phones. Embedded NAND Flash-based storage devices are utilized in mobile phones, MP3/4 players, computers, solid-state drives ("SSDs"), tablets and other personal and consumer applications. The market for NAND Flash products has grown rapidly and we expect it to continue to grow due to demand for these and other removable and embedded storage devices. Our NAND Flash products feature a small cell structure that enables higher densities for demanding applications. We offer Single-Level Cell ("SLC") NAND Flash products as well as Multi-Level Cell ("MLC") and Triple-Level Cell ("TLC") NAND Flash products, which have two and three times, respectively, the bit density of SLC NAND Flash products. In 2012, we offered SLC NAND products in 1 gigabit ("Gb") to 64Gb densities. In addition, we offered 8Gb to 128Gb 2-bit-per-cell MLC NAND Flash products and 32Gb to 128Gb 3-bit-per-cell TLC NAND Flash products. We offer high-speed NAND Flash products that are compatible with advanced interfaces. Additionally, our multichip packages ("MCPs") incorporate NAND Flash with other memory products to create a single package that simplifies design while improving performance and functionality. 2 We offer next-generation RealSSD SSDs for enterprise server and notebook applications which feature higher performance, reduced power consumption and enhanced reliability as compared to typical hard disk drives. Using our SLC and MLC NAND Flash process technology, these SSDs are offered in 2.5-inch and 1.8-inch form factors, with densities up to 512 gigabytes ("GB"). We also offer embedded USB devices with densities up to 16GB. We are sampling enterprise PCIe SSDs with capacities up to 700GB. We expect that demand for SSDs will continue to increase significantly over the next several years. Through our Lexar brand, we sell high-performance digital media products and other flash-based storage products through retail and OEM channels. Our digital media products include a variety of flash memory cards and JumpDrive products with a range of speeds, capacities and value-added features. We offer flash memory cards in a variety of speeds and capacities and in all major media formats, including: CompactFlash, Memory Stick and Secure Digital ("SD"). CompactFlash and Memory Stick products sold by us incorporate our patented controller technology. Other products, including SD memory cards and some JumpDrive products, incorporate third party controllers. We also manufacture products that are sold under other brand names and resell flash memory products that are purchased from other NAND Flash suppliers. Dynamic Random Access Memory ("DRAM") DRAM products are high-density, low-cost-per-bit, random access memory devices that provide high-speed data storage and retrieval. DRAM sales products were 39%, 41% and 60% of our total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. DRAM products are sold by our DSG, WSG and ESG segments. We offer DRAM products with a variety of performance, pricing and other characteristics including high-volume DDR3 and DDR2 products as well as specialty DRAM memory products including Mobile Low Power DRAM ("LPDRAM"), DDR, SDRAM, Reduced Latency DRAM ("RLDRAM") and Pseudo-static DRAM ("PSRAM"). DDR3 and DDR2 : DDR3 and DDR2 are standardized, high-density, high-volume, DRAM products that are sold primarily for use as main system memory in computers and servers. DDR3 and DDR2 products offer high speed and high bandwidth at a relatively low cost. DDR3 sales were 20%, 21% and 22% of our total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. DDR2 sales were 9%, 10% and 24% of our total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to begin volume production of DDR4 products in 2013. We offer DDR3 products in 1Gb, 2Gb and 4Gb densities and DDR2 products in 512 megabit ("Mb"), 1Gb and 2Gb densities. These densities enable us to meet customer demands for a broad array of products and we offer these products in multiple configurations, speeds and package types. Specialty DRAM products : We also offer DRAM memory products including DDR and DDR2 Mobile LPDRAM, DDR, SDRAM, RLDRAM and PSRAM in densities ranging from 64Mb to 4Gb. LPDRAM products are used primarily in laptop computers, tablets and other consumer devices that require low power consumption. Our other specialty DRAM products are used primarily in networking devices, servers, consumer electronics, communications equipment and computer peripherals as well as computer memory upgrades. Aggregate sales of LPDRAM and our other specialty DRAM products were 10%, 10% and 14% of our total net sales in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. NOR Flash Memory NOR Flash products are electrically re-writeable, non-volatile semiconductor memory devices that retain content when power is turned off, offer fast read times due to random access capability and have execute-in-place ("XiP") capability that enables processors to read NOR Flash without first accessing RAM. These capabilities make NOR ideal for storing program code in wireless and embedded applications. Our NOR Flash sales originated from the May 7, 2010 acquisition of Numonyx and were 12%, 18% and 5% of our total net sales for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. NOR Flash products are sold by our WSG and ESG segments. We offer both parallel and serial interface NOR Flash products in a broad range of densities, packages and features. Our parallel NOR Flash products are constructed to meet the needs of the consumer electronics, industrial, wired and wireless communications, computing and automotive applications. These products offer high densities, XiP performance, architectural flexibility and proven reliability in rigorous industrial settings. Our serial NOR Flash products are designed to meet the needs of consumer electronics, industrial, wired communications and computing applications. These products offer industry-standard packaging, pinouts, command sets and chipset compatibility. 3 Partnering Arrangements The following is a summary of our partnering arrangements as of August 30, 2012: Member or Partner(s) Approximate Micron Ownership Interest Formed/ Acquired Product Market Consolidated Entities IMFT (1) Intel Corporation 51 % 2006 NAND Flash MP Mask (2) Photronics, Inc. 50 % 2006 Photomasks Equity Method Investments Inotera (3) Nanya Technology Corporation 40 % 2009 DRAM Aptina (4) Riverwood Capital LLC and TPG Partners VI, L.P. 35 % 2009 CMOS Image Sensors (1) IMFT: We partner with Intel for the design, development and manufacture of NAND Flash and certain emerging memory products. In connection therewith, we formed a joint venture with Intel, IM Flash Technologies, LLC ("IMFT"), to manufacture NAND Flash memory products for the exclusive benefit of the members. The members share the output of IMFT generally in proportion to their investment. We sell NAND Flash products to Intel through IMFT at long-term negotiated prices approximating cost. We generally share product design and other research and development costs for NAND Flash and certain emerging memory technologies equally with Intel. In April 2012, we acquired Intel's remaining interests in a separate NAND Flash joint venture, IM Flash Singapore, LLP ("IMFS"). (See "