ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As used herein, "we," "our," "us" and similar terms include Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements such as those made in "Overview" regarding Elpida's wafer production and expectations related to Elpida's future cash flows; "Operating Results by Business Segment" regarding increases in sales of mobile DRAM for 2014 as a result of our acquisition of Elpida; in "Operating Results by Product" regarding the timing and effect of the transition of our Singapore DRAM facility to NAND Flash production, our increases in DRAM sales for 2014 as a result of our acquisition of Elpida and the effect of Elpida inventory adjustments in acquisition accounting on cost of sales in the first quarter of 2014; in "Selling, General and Administrative" regarding SG&A costs for the first quarter of 2014; in "Research and Development" regarding R&D costs for the first quarter of 2014; in "Liquidity and Capital Resources" regarding the sufficiency of our cash and investments, cash flows from operations and available financing to meet our requirements at least through 2014, regarding our pursuit of additional financing and capital spending in 2014, the timing of payments for certain contractual obligations, the timing of payments in connection with the Elpida transactions and conversions of our convertible notes; and in "Recently Issued Accounting Standards" regarding the impact of recently issued accounting pronouncements. Our actual results could differ materially from our historical results and those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Item 1A. Risk Factors." This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes for the year ended August 29, 2013. All period references are to our fiscal periods unless otherwise indicated. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53-week period ending on the Thursday closest to August 31 and fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 each contained 52 weeks. All production data includes the production of our consolidated joint ventures and our other partnering arrangements. All tabular dollar amounts are in millions. Our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is provided in addition to the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes to assist readers in understanding our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. MD&A is organized as follows: Overview: Highlights of key transactions and events. Results of Operations: An analysis of our financial results consisting of the following: Consolidated results; Operating results by business segment; Operating results by product; and Operating expenses and other. Liquidity and Capital Resources: An analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows and discussion of our financial condition and potential sources of liquidity. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements: Contingent liabilities, commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates: Accounting estimates that we believe are most important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results and forecasts. Also includes changes in accounting standards. 34 Overview For an overview of our business, see "Item 1 Business Overview." Our results of operations for 2013 were affected by the following key transactions and events. Acquisition of Elpida Memory, Inc. On July 31, 2013, we completed our acquisition of Elpida Memory, Inc. ("Elpida"), a Japanese corporation, pursuant to the terms and conditions of an Agreement on Support for Reorganization Companies (as amended, the "Sponsor Agreement") that we entered into on July 2, 2012 with the trustees of Elpida and one of its subsidiaries, Akita Elpida Memory, Inc., a Japanese corporation ("Akita" and, together with Elpida, the "Elpida Companies") pursuant to and in connection with the Elpida Companies' pending corporate reorganization proceedings under the Corporate Reorganization Act of Japan. We paid $615 million for the acquisition of 100% of Elpida's equity. On July 31, 2013, we also acquired a 24% ownership interest in Rexchip Electronics Corporation ("Rexchip''), a Taiwanese corporation and manufacturing joint venture formed by Powerchip Technology Corporation ("Powerchip") and Elpida, from Powerchip and certain of its affiliates (the "Powerchip Group") pursuant to a share purchase agreement. We paid $334 million in cash for the shares. Elpida and it's subsidiaries (the "Elpida Group") own approximately 65% of Rexchip's outstanding common stock. Therefore, as a result of the consummation of our acquisition of Elpida and the Rexchip shares from the Powerchip Group, we own approximately 89% of Rexchip's common stock. The provisional fair values of assets and liabilities acquired include, among other items, cash and restricted cash aggregating $1,618 million; inventories of $962 million; property, plant and equipment of $935 million; net deferred tax assets of $917 million and debt of $2,134 million. Elpida's assets include, among others: a 300mm DRAM wafer fabrication facility located in Hiroshima, Japan; its ownership interest in Rexchip, whose assets include a 300mm DRAM wafer fabrication facility located in Taichung City, Taiwan; and an assembly and test facility located in Akita, Japan. The Elpida and Rexchip fabrication facilities together represent approximately one-third of our wafer capacity. Elpida's semiconductor memory products include Mobile DRAM, targeted toward mobile phones and tablets. We believe that combining the complementary product portfolios of Micron and Elpida strengthens our position in the memory market and enables us to provide customers with a wider portfolio of high-quality memory solutions. We also believe that the Elpida transaction strengthens our market position in the memory industry through increased research and development and manufacturing scale, improved access to core memory market segments, and additional wafer capacity to balance among our DRAM, NAND Flash and NOR Flash memory solutions. Elpida's operations are included primarily in the DSG and WSG segments. Our results of operations for 2013 included approximately one month of operating results from the Elpida operations, which accounted for sales of $355 million and net income of $29 million. The Elpida Companies are currently subject to corporate reorganization proceedings under the Corporate Reorganization Act of Japan. Both of the Elpida Companies have adopted plans of reorganization which set forth the treatment of the Elpida Companies' pre-petition creditors and their claims, which plans were approved by the Elpida Companies' creditors and the Tokyo District Court in February 2013. The plans of reorganization provide for payments by the Elpida Companies to their secured and unsecured creditors in an aggregate amount of 200 billion yen (or the equivalent of approximately $2.05 billion as of August 29, 2013), less certain expenses of the reorganization proceedings and certain other items. The plans of reorganization provide for the Elpida Companies' pre-petition creditors to be paid in seven installments. The initial installment payment of 60 billion yen ($ 615 million as of August 29, 2013), which amount is subject to reduction for certain items specified in the Sponsor Agreement and plans of reorganization, was paid in October 2013. Substantially all of the $615 million that we paid in connection with the Elpida acquisition was deposited into accounts that are legally restricted for payment to the secured and unsecured creditors of Elpida in October 2013 and was presented as restricted cash in the amount of $556 million on our August 29, 2013 balance sheet. The remaining 140 billion yen (or the equivalent of approximately $1.43 billion as of August 29, 2013) of installment payments payable to the Elpida Companies' creditors are scheduled to be made by the Elpida Companies in six annual installments payable beginning on December 31, 2014. Pursuant to the terms of the Sponsor Agreement, we entered into a series of agreements with the Elpida Companies, including supply agreements, research and development services agreements and general services agreements, which are intended to generate more stable operating cash flows to meet the requirements of the Elpida Companies' businesses, including the funding of the installment payments to the Elpida Companies' creditors. We anticipate that, once fully in effect, payments made under these agreements will generally cover all of Elpida and Akita's costs. 35 To mitigate the risk from the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the proposed Elpida Acquisition, we entered into a series of currency exchange contracts to hedge our exposure to yen and New Taiwan Dollar payments (the "Elpida Hedges"). These currency exchange contracts were not designated for hedge accounting and were remeasured at fair value each period with gains and losses recognized in other operating (income) expense. As a result of mark-to-market adjustments for the Elpida Hedges, we recorded losses to other non-operating expense of $228 million in 2013. As of August 29, 2013, our cumulative loss on the Elpida Hedges was $220 million. See "