ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-looking statements The information set forth in this report in Item 2, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and Item 3, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk," includes "Forward-Looking Statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and is subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, projections of revenues, income or loss, capital expenditures, plans for product development and cooperative arrangements, technology development by third parties, future operations, financing needs or plans of MicroVision, Inc. ("we" or "our"), as well as assumptions relating to the foregoing. The words "anticipate," "could," "would," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "goal," "may," "plan," "project," "will," and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements include risk factors identified below in Item 1A. Overview MicroVision, Inc. is a pioneer in laser beam scanning (LBS) technology that we market under our brand name PicoP. We have developed our proprietary PicoP scanning technology that can be adopted by our customers to create high-resolution miniature projection and three-dimensional sensing and image capture solutions. PicoP scanning technology is based on our patented expertise in micro-electrical mechanical systems (MEMS), laser diodes, opto-mechanics, and electronics and how those elements are packaged into a small form factor, low power scanning engine that can display, interact and sense, depending on the needs of the application. For display, the engine can project a high-quality image on any surface for use in pico projection and augmented or virtual reality. For sensing, we use infrared (IR) lasers to capture three-dimensional data in the form of a point cloud. Interactivity uses the 3D sensing function and the display function to project an image that the user could then interact with as one would a touch screen. Our strategy includes selling LBS engines to original design manufacturers (ODMs) and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We plan to offer three scanning engines to support a wide array of applications: a small form factor display engine for consumer products, an interactive scanning engine for smart Internet of Things (IoT) products, and a light detection and ranging (LiDAR) engine for consumer electronic applications. We also are developing LiDAR for automotive collision avoidance systems. In addition to selling modules, we have licensed our patented PicoP scanning technology to other companies for incorporation into their scanning engines for projection. We sell our licensees key components needed to produce their laser scanning engines and/or license our technology in exchange for a royalty fee for each scanning engine they sell. Companies to whom we license our PicoP scanning technology are typically ODMs or OEMs who are in the business of making components or products ready for sale to end users. To date, we have primarily focused on the consumer electronics market, however, we believe that our LBS technology creates a platform that could support multiple applications and markets including medical, industrial and automotive. While we are optimistic about our technology and the potential for future revenues, we have incurred substantial losses since inception and we expect to incur a significant loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2018. Key accounting policies and estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. We base our estimates on historical data, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the information display and 3D sensing industries, information provided by our current and prospective customers and strategic partners, information available from other outside sources and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Except for policy changes in accounting for revenues associated with our adoption of Topic 606 (see Note 3 "Revenue Recognition" in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1), there have been no significant changes to our critical accounting judgments, policies, and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017. 13 Results of operations Product revenue Product revenue is revenue from sales of our products which are LBS engines, MEMS and ASICs. Revenue is recognized under Topic 606 when the product is shipped to the customer because control passes to the customer at the point of shipment. Our product sales generally include acceptance provisions, however, because we generally can objectively determine that we have met agreed-upon customer specifications prior to shipment, control of the item passes at the time of shipment. Our quarterly product revenue may vary substantially due to the timing of product orders from customers, product shipments, production constraints and availability of components and raw materials. We did not recognize any product revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Product revenue backlog during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $4.3 million. Royalty revenue ( in thousands ) 2018 2017 $ change % change Three Months Ended March 31, $ 11 $ 97 $ (86) (88.7) Royalty revenue is revenue under license agreements to our PicoP scanning technology. We recognize revenue on upfront license fees at a point in time if the nature of the license granted is a right-to-use license, representing functional intellectual property with significant standalone functionality. If the nature of the license granted is a right-to-access license, representing symbolic intellectual property, which excludes significant standalone functionality, we recognize revenue over the period of time we have ongoing obligations under the agreement. We will recognize revenue from sales-based royalties on the basis of the quarterly reports provided by our customer as to the number of royalty-bearing products sold or otherwise distributed. In the event that reports are not received, we will estimate the number of royalty-bearing products sold by our customers. Contract revenue ( in thousands ) 2018 2017 $ change % change Three Months Ended March 31, $ 2,177 $ 471 $ 1,706 362.2 Contract revenue includes revenue from performance on development contracts and the sale of prototype units and evaluation kits based on our PicoP scanning engine. Our contract revenue in a particular period is dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts we have entered into, and the availability of technical resources to perform work on the contracts. We recognize contract revenue either at a point in time, or over time, depending upon the characteristics of the individual contract. If control of the deliverable(s) occur over time, the revenue is recognized in proportion to the transfer of control. If control passes to the customer only upon completion and transfer of the asset, revenue is recognized at the completion of the contract. In contracts that include significant customer acceptance provisions, we recognize revenue only upon acceptance of the deliverable(s). We identify each performance obligation in our development contracts at contract inception. The contracts generally include product development and customization specified by the customer. In contracts with multiple performance obligations, we identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are distinct within the context of the contract. Performance obligations that are not distinct at contract inception are combined. Our development contracts are primarily fixed-fee contracts. If control of deliverables occurs over time, we recognize revenue on fixed fee contracts on the proportion of total cost expended (under Topic 606, the "input method") to the total cost expected to complete the contract performance obligation. For contracts that require the input method for revenue recognition, the determination of the total cost expected to complete the performance obligations on fixed fee contracts involves significant judgment. We incorporate revisions to hour and cost estimates when the causal facts become known. 14 In April 2017, we signed a contract with a major technology company to develop an LBS display system. Under the terms of this agreement, we may receive $14.0 million in fees for development work contingent on completion of milestones. As of March 31, 2018, we have received $4.0 million in fees for development work. We are recognizing revenue on the $14.0 million in development fees over time, utilizing the input method of total costs expended to total cost expected to complete the performance obligation. As of March 31, 2018, we have recognized $6.8 million of contract revenue from development fees on this agreement. The increase in contract revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was attributed to increased contract activity. Our contract backlog, including orders for prototype units and evaluation kits, at March 31, 2018 and 2017 was approximately $7.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively. The April 2017 development contract represents $7.2 million of the contract backlog and is scheduled for completion during the first quarter of 2019. Cost of product revenue % of % of product product ( in thousands ) 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change Three Months Ended March 31, $ 238 N/A $ 213 N/A $ 25 11.7 Cost of product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect costs of products sold to customers. Direct costs include labor, materials, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, and other costs incurred directly, or charged to us by our contract manufacturers, in the manufacture of these products. Indirect costs include labor, manufacturing overhead, and other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Manufacturing overhead includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing material, facility and other costs, and is allocated to cost of product revenue based on the proportion of indirect labor which supported production activities. Cost of product revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the product mix and volume, the level of manufacturing overhead expense and the volume of direct material purchased. Cost of product revenue was higher during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due to higher depreciation. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, we did not expense manufacturing overhead associated with production capacity in excess of production requirements. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, we expensed $245,000 of manufacturing overhead associated with production capacity in excess of production requirements. Additionally, during the three months ended March 31, 2018, we recorded a provision for scrap of $4,000 compared to zero during the same period in 2017. Cost of contract revenue % of % of contract contract ( in thousands ) 2018 revenue 2017 revenue $ change % change Three Months Ended March 31, $ 1,635 75.1 $ 403 85.6 $ 1,232 305.7 Cost of contract revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of performing on contracts and producing prototype units and evaluation kits. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in producing prototype units and evaluation kits or performing on a contract. Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our research and development department and building our technical capabilities and capacity. Cost of contract revenue is determined by the level of direct and indirect costs incurred, which can fluctuate substantially from period to period. The increase in the cost of contract revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018 was primarily attributed to the direct and indirect costs incurred related to the April 2017 development contract. 15 Research and development expense ( in thousands ) 2018 2017 $ change % change Three Months Ended March 31, $ 4,828 $ 3,318 $ 1,510 45.5 Research and development expense consists of compensation related costs of employees and contractors engaged in internal research and product development activities, direct material to support development programs, laboratory operations, outsourced development and processing work, and other operating expenses. We assign our research and development resources based on the business opportunity of the available projects, the skill mix of the resources available and the contractual commitments we have made to our customers. We believe that a substantial level of continuing research and development expense will be required to further develop our scanning technology. The increase in research and development expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was attributable to higher costs related to subcontractors and increased headcount and personnel-related compensation and benefits expenses related to our LBS engine development. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense ( in thousands ) 2018 2017 $ change % change Three Months Ended March 31, $ 2,607 $ 2,580 $ 27 1.0 Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense includes compensation and support costs for marketing, sales, management and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including legal and accounting services, consultants and other operating expenses. The increase in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 was attributed to increased headcount and personnel-related compensation and benefits expenses to support sales activities as well as increased rent expense, offset by lower legal fees related to commercial contracts. Liquidity and capital resources We have incurred significant losses since inception. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales, and licensing activities. At March 31, 2018, we had $7.2 million in cash and cash equivalents. Based on our current operating plan that includes expected proceeds from a development contract signed in April 2017 with a major technology company and including expected payments totaling $10.0 million under a licensing agreement that was executed with a customer in May 2018, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations through December 2018. Our receipt of proceeds under our April 2017 development contract is subject to our completion of certain milestones, and we can provide no assurance that such milestones will be completed. We will require additional capital to fund our operating plan past that time. We plan to obtain additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt securities, product sales and/or licensing activities. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us or, if available, will be available on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis. If adequate capital resources are not available on a timely basis, we intend to consider limiting our operations substantially. This limitation of operations could include reducing investments in our production capacities, research and development projects, staff, operating costs, and capital expenditures. These factors raise substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. Our unaudited consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments that might be necessary should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Operating activities Cash used in operating activities totaled $9.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to cash used in operating activities of $6.7 million during the same period in 2017. The change in cash flows from operating activities is primarily attributed to the higher net loss during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 as well as the timing of payments received from customers and payment made to suppliers. 16 Investing activities During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, net cash used in investing activities was $182,000 and $755,000, respectively, and was primarily attributed to capital expenditures in manufacturing and production equipment. Financing activities During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, we had no financing activities. In August 2017, we raised approximately $11.5 million before issuance costs of approximately $1.1 million through an underwritten public offering of 5.5 million shares of our common stock. In August 2017, we raised approximately $3.2 million before issuance costs of approximately $26,000 through a private placement of 1.5 million shares of our common stock. During the second quarter of 2017, we received $906,000 from the exercise of warrants to purchase 460,000 shares of common stock, which warrants were issued in connection with earlier financing transactions. In May 2017, we entered into an ATM agreement with IFS Securities (DBA Brinson Patrick). During the second quarter of 2017, we received gross proceeds of $3.7 million before issuance costs of approximately $125,000 from the sale of approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock. The agreement was terminated in June 2017 at our election without penalty. During the second quarter of 2017, we received proceeds of $2.2 million from the sale of 1.2 million shares of our common stock as part of the Common Stock Purchase agreement we entered into with Lincoln Park in September 2016. The agreement was terminated in August 2017 at our election without penalty.