Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We had a backlog of $5.1 million at December 31, 2014 compared to a backlog of $2.1 million at December 31, 2013. The backlog at December 31, 2014 is composed of $3.6 million in orders for components and $1.5 million in contract backlog. We plan to complete all of the backlog within one year. Employees As of March 11, 2015, we had approximately 66 employees. Further Information MicroVision was founded in 1993 as a Washington corporation and reincorporated in 2003 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Our principal office is located at 6244 185th Avenue NE, Suite 100, Redmond, Washington 98052 and our telephone number is (425) 936-6847. Our Internet address is www.microvision.com. We make available free of charge our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Investors can access this material by visiting our website, clicking on "Investors" and then on "SEC Filings." ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Relating to the MicroVision Business We have a history of operating losses and expect to incur significant losses in the future. We have had substantial losses since our inception. We cannot assure you that we will ever become or remain profitable. As of December 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $468.8 million. We incurred consolidated net losses of $450.7 million from inception through 2013, and a net loss of $18.1 million in 2014. The likelihood of our success must be considered in light of the expenses, difficulties and delays frequently encountered by companies formed to develop and commercialize new technologies. In particular, our operations to date have focused primarily on research and development of our technology platform and development of demonstration units. We are unable to accurately estimate future revenues and operating expenses based upon historical performance. We cannot be certain that we will succeed in obtaining additional development revenue or commercializing our technology or products. In light of these factors, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow at least through 2015 and likely thereafter. We cannot be certain that we will achieve positive cash flow at any time in the future. 5 We will require additional capital to fund our operations and to implement our business plan. If we do not obtain additional capital, we may be required to curtail our operations substantially. Raising additional capital may dilute the value of current shareholders' shares. Based on our current operating plan, and including the $8.0 million payment received under a licensing agreement that was executed with our customer in March 2015, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations through December 2015. We will require additional cash to fund our operating plan past that time. We plan to obtain additional cash through sales and licensing activities and/or the issuance of equity or debt securities. We are introducing new technology into an emerging market which creates significant uncertainty about our ability to accurately project revenue, costs and cash flows. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which original equipment manufacturers and original device manufacturers introduce products incorporating PicoP display technology and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products. If revenues are less than we anticipate, if the mix of revenues varies from anticipated amounts or if expenses exceed the amounts budgeted, we may require additional capital earlier than expected to fund our operations. In addition, our operating plan provides for the development of strategic relationships with suppliers of components, our products and systems and equipment manufacturers that may require additional investments by us. Additional capital may not be available to us, or if available, on terms acceptable to us or on a timely basis. Raising additional capital may involve issuing securities with rights and preferences that are senior to our common stock and may dilute the value of current shareholders' shares. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis we may consider limiting our operations substantially to extend out funds as we pursue other financing opportunities and business relationships. This limitation of operations could include delaying development projects and reductions in staff, operating costs, including research and development, and capital expenditures. Reducing operations may jeopardize our ability to achieve our business goals or satisfy our customers. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer or foundry for our products could cause us to experience delays that result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. We rely on single suppliers to manufacture our products, including our MEMS chips in wafer form. The lead time to establish a relationship with a new or alternative contract manufacturer or foundry is a time consuming process, as our unique technology may require significant manufacturing process adaptation to achieve full manufacturing capacity. Accordingly, we may be unable to establish alternative contract manufacturers in the short term, or at all, at prices or on other terms that are acceptable to us. Changes in our supply chain may result in increased cost and delay and may create uncertainty regarding, but not limited to, product warranty, product liability and quality control standards. The loss of any single or limited source supplier or the disruption in the supply of components from these suppliers could cause significant delays in product deliveries which may result in lost revenues and damaged customer relationships. To the extent that we are not able to establish a relationship with a new or alternative contract manufacturer or foundry in a timely manner, we may be unable to meet contract or production milestones which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to secure significant third-party manufacturing resources. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to provide our components and future products in commercial quantities at competitive prices and on schedule. Accordingly, we will be required to obtain access, through business partners or contract manufacturers, to manufacturing capacity and processes for the commercial production of our expected future products. We cannot be certain that we will successfully obtain access to needed manufacturing resources concurrent with a significant increase in our planned production levels. Future manufacturing limitations of our suppliers could constrain the number of products incorporating our technology that we are able to produce. 6 We are dependent on third parties in order to develop, manufacture, sell and market our products. Our strategy for commercializing our technology and products incorporating PicoP display technology includes entering into development, manufacturing, sales and marketing arrangements with corporate partners, original equipment manufacturers and other third parties. We cannot be certain that we will be able to negotiate arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all, or that these arrangements will be successful in yielding commercially viable products. If we cannot establish these arrangements, we would require additional capital to undertake such activities on our own and would require extensive manufacturing, sales and marketing expertise that we do not currently possess and that may be difficult to obtain. In addition, we could encounter significant delays in introducing PicoP display technology or find that the development, manufacture or sale of products incorporating PicoP display engine would not be feasible. To the extent that we enter into development, manufacturing, sales and marketing or other joint venture arrangements, our revenues will depend upon the performance of third parties. We cannot be certain that any such arrangements will be successful. We cannot be certain that our technology platform or products incorporating PicoP display technology will achieve market acceptance. If products incorporating PicoP display technology do not achieve market acceptance, our revenues may not grow. Our success will depend in part on customer acceptance of PicoP display technology. PicoP display technology may not be accepted by manufacturers who use display technologies in their products, by systems integrators who incorporate our products into their products or by end users of these products. To be accepted, PicoP display technology must meet the expectations of our potential customers in the consumer, automotive, and other markets. If our technology fails to achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to continue to develop our technology platform. Future products based on our PicoP display technology are dependent on advances in technology by other companies. Our PicoP display technology will continue to rely on technologies, such as light sources, MEMS and optical components that are developed and produced by other companies. The commercial success of certain future products based on our technology will depend in part on advances in these and other technologies by other companies. We may, from time to time, contract with and support companies developing key technologies in order to accelerate the development of them for our or our customers' specific uses. There are no guarantees that such activities will result in useful technologies or products for us. We are dependent on a small number of customers for our revenue. Our quarterly performance may vary substantially and this variance, as well as general market conditions, may cause our stock price to fluctuate greatly and potentially expose us to litigation. In 2013, two commercial customers accounted for 86% of our revenue. In 2014, 65% of our revenue was generated from sales to two commercial customers. Our customers take time to obtain, and replacing a customer, if one was lost, may take an extended period of time, which could negatively affect our revenue. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly based on: market acceptance of products based on PicoP display technology, changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally, announcements by other companies in our industry, changes in business or regulatory conditions, announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products, the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements, economic and stock market conditions, or other factors unrelated to our company or industry. In one or more future quarters, our results of operations may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and the trading price of our common stock may decline as a consequence. In addition, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, shareholders often have instituted securities class action litigation against that company. If we become involved in a class action suit, it could divert the attention of management, and, if adversely determined, could require us to pay substantial damages. 7 We or our customers may fail to perform under open orders, which could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. Our backlog of open orders totaled $5.1 million as of December 31, 2014. We may be unable to meet the performance requirements, including performance specifications or delivery dates, required by such purchase orders. Further, our customers may be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations thereunder on a timely basis or at all if, among other reasons, our products and technologies do not achieve market acceptance, our customers' products and technologies do not achieve market acceptance or our customers otherwise fail to achieve their operating goals. To the extent we are unable to perform under such purchase orders or to the extent customers are unable or unwilling to perform, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. It may become more difficult to sell our stock in the public market or maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our common stock is listed for quotation on The NASDAQ Global Market. To keep our listing on this market, we must meet NASDAQ's listing maintenance standards. If we are unable to meet NASDAQ'S listing maintenance standards for any reason, our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. If our common stock were delisted, we likely would seek to list the common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the American Stock Exchange or on a regional stock exchange. Listing on such other market or exchange could reduce the liquidity of our common stock. If our common stock were not listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market or an exchange, trading of our common stock would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities or directly through market makers in our common stock. If our common stock were to trade in the over-the-counter market, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, the common stock. A delisting from the NASDAQ Global Market and failure to obtain listing on such other market or exchange would subject our securities to so-called penny stock rules that impose additional sales practice and market-making requirements on broker-dealers who sell or make a market in such securities. Consequently, removal from the NASDAQ Global Market and failure to obtain listing on another market or exchange could affect the ability or willingness of broker-dealers to sell or make a market in our common stock and the ability of purchasers of our common stock to sell their securities in the secondary market. In addition, when the market price of our common stock is less than $5.00 per share, we become subject to penny stock rules even if our common stock is still listed on the NASDAQ Global Market. While the penny stock rules should not affect the quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market, these rules may further limit the market liquidity of our common stock and the ability of investors to sell our common stock in the secondary market. The market price of our stock has traded below $5.00 per share during 2014 and 2013. On March 11, 2015, the closing price of our stock was $2.72. Our lack of financial and technical resources relative to our competitors may limit our revenues, potential profits, overall market share or value. Our current products and potential future products will compete with established manufacturers of existing products and companies developing new technologies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and other resources than we have. Because of their greater resources, our competitors may develop products or technologies that may be superior to our own. The introduction of superior competing products or technologies could result in reduced revenues, lower margins or loss of market share, any of which could reduce the value of our business. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological change and our financial results may suffer. The information display industry has been characterized by rapidly changing technology, accelerated product obsolescence and continuously evolving industry standards. Our success will depend upon our ability to further develop our technology platform and to cost effectively introduce new products and features in a timely manner to meet evolving customer requirements and compete with competitors' product advances. We may not succeed in these efforts due to: delays in product development, lack of market acceptance for our products, or lack of funds to invest in product research, development and marketing. The occurrence of any of the above factors could result in decreased revenues, market share and value. 8 We could face lawsuits related to our use of PicoP display technology or other technologies. Defending these suits would be costly and time consuming. An adverse outcome in any such matter could limit our ability to commercialize our technology and products, reduce our revenues and increase our operating expenses. We are aware of several patents held by third parties that relate to certain aspects of light scanning displays and image capture products. These patents could be used as a basis to challenge the validity, limit the scope or limit our ability to obtain additional or broader patent rights of our patents or patents we have licensed. A successful challenge to the validity of our patents or patents we have licensed could limit our ability to commercialize our technology or display engines enabled by PicoP display technology and, consequently, materially reduce our revenues. Moreover, we cannot be certain that patent holders or other third parties will not claim infringement by us with respect to current and future technology. Because U.S. patent applications are held and examined in secrecy, it is also possible that presently pending U.S. applications will eventually be issued with claims that will be infringed by our products or our technology. The defense and prosecution of a patent suit would be costly and time consuming, even if the outcome were ultimately favorable to us. An adverse outcome in the defense of a patent suit could subject us to significant costs, to require others and us to cease selling products that incorporate PicoP display technology, to cease licensing our technology or to require disputed rights to be licensed from third parties. Such licenses, if available, would increase our operating expenses. Moreover, if claims of infringement are asserted against our future co-development partners or customers, those partners or customers may seek indemnification from us for damages or expenses they incur. If we fail to manage expansion effectively, our revenue and expenses could be adversely affected. Our ability to successfully offer products and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. The growth in business and relationships with customers and other third parties has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management systems and resources. We will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures and will need to continue to train and manage our work force. Our products may be subject to future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that could increase our development and production costs. Products incorporating PicoP display technology could become subject to future environmental, health and safety laws, regulations or amendments that would negatively impact our ability to commercialize PicoP display technology. Compliance with any such new laws and regulations would likely increase our cost to develop and produce products using PicoP display technology, and violations may result in fines, penalties or suspension of production. If we become subject to any environmental, health, or safety laws or regulations which require us to cease or significantly change our operations to comply, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely impacted by worldwide political and economic uncertainties and specific conditions in the markets we address. In the recent past, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced a downturn due to slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending, and adverse business conditions. Any continuation or worsening of the current global economic and financial conditions could materially adversely affect (i) our ability to raise, or the cost of, needed capital, (ii) demand for our current and future products and (iii) our ability to commercialize products. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery, worldwide, or in the display industry. Because we plan to continue using foreign contract manufacturers, our operating results could be harmed by economic, political, regulatory and other factors in foreign countries. We currently use foreign manufacturers and plan to continue to use foreign manufacturers to manufacture future products, where appropriate. These international operations are subject to inherent risks, which may adversely affect us, including: political and economic instability, high levels of inflation, historically the case in a number of countries in Asia, burdens and costs of compliance with a variety of foreign laws, regulations and restrictions, foreign taxes, changes in tariff rates or other trade and monetary policies, and changes or volatility in currency exchange rates and interest rates. 9 Manufacturing facilities could be damaged or disrupted by a natural disaster or labor strike, either of which would materially affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A major catastrophe, such as an earthquake, monsoon, flood or other natural disaster, labor strike, or work stoppage at our contract manufacturers' facilities, our suppliers, or our customers, could result in a prolonged interruption of our business. A disruption resulting from any one of these events could cause significant delays in product shipments and the loss of sales and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If our licensors and we are unable to obtain effective intellectual property protection for our products and technology, we may be unable to compete with other companies. Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain. If we do not obtain effective intellectual property protection for our products, processes and technology, we may be subject to increased competition. Our commercial success will depend in part on our ability and the ability of our licensors to maintain the proprietary nature of the PicoP display and other key technologies by securing valid and enforceable patents and effectively maintaining unpatented technology as trade secrets. We try to protect our proprietary technology by seeking to obtain United States and foreign patents in our name, or licenses to third-party patents, related to proprietary technology, inventions, and improvements that may be important to the development of our business. However, our patent position and the patent position of our licensors involve complex legal and factual questions. The standards that the United States Patent and Trademark Office and its foreign counterparts use to grant patents are not always applied predictably or uniformly and can change. Additionally, the scope of patents are subject to interpretation by courts and their validity can be subject to challenges and defenses, including challenges and defenses based on the existence of prior art. Consequently, we cannot be certain as to the extent to which we will be able to obtain patents for our new products and technology or the extent to which the patents that we already own or license from others protect our products and technology. Reduction in scope of protection or invalidation of our licensed or owned patents, or our inability to obtain new patents, may enable other companies to develop products that compete with ours on the basis of the same or similar technology. We also rely on the law of trade secrets to protect unpatented know-how and technology to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this know-how and technology by limiting access to the trade secrets to those of our employees, contractors and partners with a need to know such information and by entering into confidentiality agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our employees, consultants and business partners. Any of these parties could breach the agreements and disclose our trade secrets or confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any trade secret not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be negatively affected. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims that could be time-consuming and costly, divert management attention and adversely affect our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage. We may be subject to product liability claims if any of our product applications are alleged to be defective or cause harmful effects. For example, because some PicoP display engines are designed to scan a low power beam of colored light into the user's eye, the testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of these products involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Product liability claims or other claims related to our products, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, divert management time and attention, require us to pay significant damages, harm our reputation or hinder commercial acceptance of our products. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our products. Our contracts and collaborative research and development agreements have long sales cycles, which make it difficult to plan our expenses and forecast our revenues. Our contracts and collaborative research and development agreements have lengthy sales cycles that involve numerous steps including determination of a product application, exploring the technical feasibility of a proposed product, evaluating the costs of manufacturing a product or qualify a contract manufacturer for production. Our long sales cycle, which can last several years, makes it difficult to predict the quarter in which contract signing and revenue recognition will occur. Delays in entering into contracts and collaborative research and development agreements could cause significant variability in our revenues and operating results for any particular quarterly period. 10 Our contracts and collaborative research and development agreements may not lead to any product or to any products that will be profitable. Our contracts and collaborative research and development agreements, including without limitation those discussed in this document, are exploratory in nature and are intended to develop new types of products for new applications. These efforts may prove unsuccessful and these relationships may not result in the development of any product or any products that will be profitable. If we lose our rights under our third-party technology licenses, our operations could be adversely affected. Our business depends in part on technology rights licensed from third parties. We could lose our exclusivity or other rights to use the technology under our licenses if we fail to comply with the terms and performance requirements of the licenses. In addition, certain licensors may terminate a license upon our breach and have the right to consent to sublicense arrangements. If we were to lose our rights under any of these licenses, or if we were unable to obtain required consent to future sublicenses, we could lose a competitive advantage in the market, and may even lose the ability to commercialize certain products completely. Either of these results could substantially decrease our revenues. Loss of any of our key personnel could have a negative effect on the operation of our business. Our success depends on our executive officers and other key personnel and on the ability to attract and retain qualified new personnel. Achievement of our business objectives will require substantial additional expertise in the areas of sales and marketing, research and product development and manufacturing. Competition for qualified personnel in these fields is intense, and the inability to attract and retain additional highly skilled personnel, or the loss of key personnel, could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We currently lease approximately 23,900 square feet of combined use office, laboratory and manufacturing space at our corporate headquarters in Redmond, Washington. The 65 month lease expires in January 2019. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS On March 31, 2014, Asia Optical Co., Inc., a supplier pursuant to an agreement entered into in 2008, filed a complaint for arbitration with the American Arbitration Association claiming that we ordered products from them and failed to take delivery of and pay for such products. The relief sought in the complaint is $3.6 million plus attorneys' fees, interest and arbitration costs. We contest the claim and are defending against it. An adverse outcome of these proceedings could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. At this stage, we cannot predict the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome or the range of potential loss. We are also subject to various claims and pending or threatened lawsuits in the normal course of business. We are not currently party to any other legal proceedings that we believe are reasonably possible to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 11 ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Executive officers are appointed by our Board of Directors and hold office until their successors are elected and duly qualified. Mr. Tokman also serves as a director of MicroVision. The following persons serve as executive officers of MicroVision: Alexander Tokman, age 53, has served as President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of MicroVision since January 2006. Mr. Tokman served as MicroVision's President and Chief Operating Officer from July 2005 to January 2006. Mr. Tokman, a former GE executive, joined MicroVision after a 10-year tenure at GE Healthcare, a subsidiary of General Electric, where he led several global businesses, most recently as General Manager of its Global Molecular Imaging and Radiopharmacy multi-technology business unit from 2003 to 2005. Prior to that, between 1995 and 2003, Mr. Tokman served in various cross-functional and cross-business leadership roles at GE where he led the definition and commercialization of several medical modalities product segments including PET/CT, which added over $500 million of revenue growth to the company within the first three years of its commercial introduction. Mr. Tokman is a certified Six Sigma and Design for Six Sigma (DFSS) Black Belt and Master Black Belt and as one of GE's Six Sigma pioneers, he drove the quality culture change across GE Healthcare in the late 1990s. From November 1989 to March 1995 Mr. Tokman served as new technologies programs lead and a head of I&RD office at Tracor Applied Sciences a subsidiary of then Tracor, Inc. Mr. Tokman has both an M.S. and B.S. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Massachusetts, Dartmouth. Stephen Holt, age 52, joined MicroVision in April 2013 as Chief Financial Officer. Prior to MicroVision, from May 2007 to May 2012, he served as Chief Financial Officer of PixelOptics, where he played a lead role in bringing the company's first electronic focusing eyewear product to market. At this venture capital-backed start-up, Mr. Holt raised capital and negotiated strategic partner agreements to license technology in addition to implementing policies and procedures to create an infrastructure capable of supporting rapid growth while maintaining a strong internal control environment. From March 2006 to April 2007, he was the Chief Financial Officer of Interstate Distributors, a trucking and transportation services company. From December 2003 to March 2006, he was the Chief Financial Officer of a group of companies consisting of Activelight, Boxlight, Cinelight and Projector Wholesale Supply. These companies were value added resellers and distributors of audio-visual and projection equipment. Mr. Holt, a Certified Management Accountant, holds a Bachelor of Science from California State University, Chico and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University. David Westgor, age 61, was appointed Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in November 2013 after serving as General Counsel since December 2012 and Deputy General Counsel since June 2007. In his current role, Mr. Westgor oversees the legal department, advises the Board of Directors and executive team on corporate governance matters and provides support for the company's business activities. Before joining MicroVision, Mr. Westgor was Senior Counsel at Medtronic Physio-Control where he had primary responsibility for the legal affairs of its medical and informatics business units. Mr. Westgor graduated from Loyola Law School and practiced in the Los Angeles office of Pillsbury Winthrop. He moved to the Seattle area to become in-house counsel at a broadband telecommunications company. Mr. Westgor also has a Master of Fine Arts degree from the Art Institute of Chicago and a B.A. from St. Olaf College. Dale Zimmerman, age 55, has served as Vice President of Research and Development since June 2012 and Director of Systems Engineering of MicroVision from June 2011 to May 2012. Prior to MicroVision, from February 2006 to December 2008 he served as Vice President of Product Strategy of Silicon Image, a company specializing in high speed serial interface solutions for HDTV, PC and storage products. From 1996 to 2006, he served as General Manager of DLP TV for Texas Instruments where he played an important role in launching the first conference room projectors, home theater projectors, and HDTVs. His teams received many awards including 3 Emmys and CES Innovation Best of Show. He received B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical and electronics engineering from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and a second M.S. in electrical engineering in 2011 from Stanford University. 12 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock began trading publicly on August 27, 1996. Our common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "MVIS." We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently anticipate that we will retain all future earnings to fund the operations of our business and do not anticipate paying dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. As of March 11, 2015, there were approximately 108 holders of record of 44,776,000 shares of common stock outstanding. As many of our shares of common stock are held by brokerages and institutions on behalf of shareholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial holders of our common stock represented by these record holders. Common Stock Quarter Ended HIGH LOW 2013 March 31, 2013 $ 2.28 $ 1.52 June 30, 2013 3.49 1.58 September 30, 2013 2.71 1.70 December 31, 2013 1.84 1.03 2014 March 31, 2014 $ 3.38 $ 1.12 June 30, 2014 2.36 1.49 September 30, 2014 2.43 1.75 December 31, 2014 2.04 1.59 2015 January 1, 2015 to March 11, 2015 $ 2.75 $ 1.72 13 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA A summary of selected financial data as of and for the five years ended December 31, 2014 is set forth below. It should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. A 1:8 reverse stock split of MicroVision's common stock became effective on February 17, 2012. All of the share and per share amounts discussed and shown in the statements and tables below have been adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (in thousands, except per share data) Statement of Operations Data: Revenue $ 3,485 $ 5,852 $ 8,365 $ 5,617 $ 4,740 Net loss available for common shareholders (18,120) (13,178) (22,693) (35,808) (47,460) Basic and diluted net loss per share (0.44) (0.47) (1.05) (2.57) (4.17) Weighted average shares outstanding basic and diluted 41,599 28,025 21,595 13,919 11,379 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and cash equivalents $ 8,349 $ 5,375 $ 6,850 $ 13,075 $ 19,413 Investments available-for-sale - - - - 13 Working capital (deficit) 5,040 (3,878) 1,831 5,913 15,618 Total assets 11,945 8,447 12,938 23,870 35,233 Long-term liabilities 488 481 20 326 1,394 Total shareholders' equity (deficit) 6,872 (1,696) 5,054 10,802 21,833 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We are developing our proprietary PicoP display technology which can be used by our customers to create high-resolution miniature laser display and imaging engines. Our PicoP display technology uses our widely patented expertise in two dimensional Micro-Electrical Mechanical Systems (MEMS), lasers, optics, and electronics to create a high quality video or still image from a small form factor device with lower power needs than conventional display technologies. Our ingredient brand strategy is to develop and supply PicoP display technology directly or through licensing arrangements to original device manufacturers (ODMs) and original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in various market segments, including consumer electronics and automotive, for integration into their products. Our development efforts are focused on improving the performance of display engines through the improvement of the optical system, drive electronics hardware and software design, and the performance of various components of the display engine. We also provide engineering support to our customers as they prepare to manufacture display engines as well as provide support to ODMs and OEMs during the integration and optimization of PicoP display technology for specific products. The primary objective for consumer applications is to provide users of mobile devices such as smartphones, tablets and other consumer electronics products with a large screen viewing experience produced by a small projector either embedded in the device or via a companion product. These potential products would allow users to watch movies and videos, play games, and display images and other data onto a variety of surfaces, freeing users from the limitations of a small screen. PicoP display technology could also be combined with other components and systems to be embedded into a vehicle or integrated into a portable standalone head-up display (HUD). HUD technology allows for important information, such as safety warnings or navigation instructions, to be projected in the driver's field of vision where the information can be accessed without taking their eyes off the road. 14 We also see potential for PicoP display technology in other areas, although these are not currently major areas of focus. PicoP display technology could be combined with other components and systems to be incorporated into a pair of glasses to provide the mobile user with a see-through or occluded personal display to view movies, play games or access other content. Devices enabled by PicoP display technology could be used in field-based professions such as service repair or sales to view and share information such as schematics for equipment repair, sales data, orders or contact information on a larger, more user-friendly display. We also see potential for embedding PicoP display technology in industrial products where our displays could be used for 3D measuring and digital signage, enhancing the overall user experience of these applications. We develop and procure intellectual property rights relating to our technology as a key aspect of our business strategy. We generate intellectual property from our internal research and development activities and our ongoing performance on development contracts. We also have acquired exclusive rights to various technologies under licensing and acquisition agreements. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and expect to incur a substantial loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2015. Key Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. We base our estimates on historical data, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the display and image capture industries, information provided by our current and prospective customers and strategic partners, information available from other outside sources, and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following key accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition. We generate revenue from many sources and activities. To date, our sources can be classified as development revenue, product revenue, or contract revenue. Development revenue We evaluate the performance criteria and terms of our collaborative research and development agreements to determine whether revenue should be recognized under a performance-based method or milestone method. Significant items covered in our evaluation include the following: the nature of our obligation under the agreement, whether provisions leading to variable revenues exist, whether any payments are refundable, whether the deliverables should be treated as a single unit of accounting or separated into multiple units, whether substantive milestones exist, whether milestone payments are commensurate with either our level of effort or the increase in value of the customer's rights, and whether a licensing agreement exists. We recognize development revenue as work progresses on an agreement and as our customer accepts the deliverables using a proportional method based on the lesser of the cumulative proportion of total estimated costs to be incurred under the agreement or the cash payments received plus outstanding billings for work accepted by the customer. Since our collaborative agreements generally require some level of technology development, the actual costs required to complete a contract could vary from our estimates. The proportional revenue recognition method we use for collaborative research and development agreements includes adjustments for revisions to estimated total agreement costs. Each period, we evaluate total estimated costs for each agreement. Any amendments to the estimated costs are recognized in the period in which the facts become known. Any related costs for work performed under collaborative research and development agreements are expensed in the accounting period incurred and included in the Statement of Operations in research and development expense. 15 Product revenue Product sales generally include acceptance provisions. We recognize product revenue upon acceptance of the product by the customer or expiration of the contractual acceptance period, after which there are no rights of return. Provisions are made for warranties at the time revenue is recognized. Our quarterly revenue may vary substantially due to the timing of product orders from customers, production constraints and availability of components and raw materials. Contract revenue We recognize contract revenue on the sale of prototype units and evaluation kits upon acceptance of the deliverables by the customer or expiration of the contractual acceptance period, after which there are no rights of return. We recognize contract revenue on long-term, cost plus fixed fee, and fixed price contracts using the percentage-of-completion method. Under the percentage-of-completion method, revenue is recognized as work progresses on the contract. Our analysis of these contracts also contemplates whether contracts should be combined or segmented. We combine closely related contracts when all the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. The combination of two or more contracts requires judgment in determining whether the intent of entering into the contracts was effectively to enter into a single project, which should be combined to reflect an overall profit rate. Similarly, we may segment a project, which may consist of a single contract or group of contracts, with varying rates of profitability, only if the applicable criteria under GAAP are met. Judgment also is involved in determining whether a single contract or group of contracts may be segmented based on how the arrangement was negotiated and the performance criteria. The decision to combine a group of contracts or segment a contract could change the amount of revenue and gross profit recorded in a given period. The percentage-of-completion method relies on estimates of total expected contract revenue and costs. We have developed processes that allow us to make prudent estimates of the cost to complete a contract. When work begins on a contract, and at the end of each accounting period, we estimate the labor, material and other costs required to complete the contract using data provided by our technical team, project managers, vendors, outside consultants and others and compare these to costs incurred to date. Recognized revenues are subject to amendments for actual costs incurred. Amendments to revenue estimates are recognized in the period in which the facts become known. Historically, we have made only immaterial amendments to estimates to complete the contract at each reporting period. In the future, amendments to estimates could significantly impact recognized revenue in any one reporting period. If we are unable to estimate costs on a contract, revenue is recognized using the completed-contract method. Under the completed-contract method, revenue and contract costs are deferred and both are recognized when all deliverables are completed. We establish an allowance for estimated losses if the estimated cost to complete a contract exceeds the remaining contract value. The entire estimated loss is recognized in the period in which the loss becomes known. We determine the estimated cost to complete a contract through a detailed review of the work to be completed, the resources available to complete the work and the technical difficulty of the remaining work. If amendments to estimated costs to complete the contract are higher than the total contract revenue, the entire contract loss will be recognized. The actual cost to complete a contract can vary significantly from the estimated cost, due to a variety of factors including availability of technical staff, availability of materials and technical difficulties that arise during the course of a project. Cost of Revenue. Cost of product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect costs of manufacturing products sold to customers. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in the manufacture of these products. Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Cost of contract revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of performing on development contracts and producing prototype units and evaluation kits. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in performing on a contract or producing prototype units and evaluation kits. Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our research and development department and building our technical capabilities and capacity. Cost of contract revenue is determined by the level of direct and indirect costs incurred, which can fluctuate substantially from period to period. Our overhead, which includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing material, and facility and depreciation costs, is allocated to inventory, cost of product revenue, cost of contract revenue, and research and development expense based on the level of effort supporting production, contract work, or research and development activity. 16 Intangible Assets. Our intangible assets consist exclusively of purchased patents. The patents are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit, ranging from one to 17 years. We evaluate the recoverability of intangible assets periodically by taking into account events or circumstances that may warrant revised estimates of useful lives or that indicate the asset may be impaired. We compare the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related intangible assets or group of assets over their remaining lives against their respective carrying amounts. Measurement of an impairment loss for our intangible assets is based on the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value. Inventory. We value inventory at the lower of cost or market with cost determined on a net-realizable value basis. We make prudent judgments and estimates to value our inventory and make adjustments to its carrying value. We review several factors in determining the market value of our inventory including evaluating the replacement cost of the raw materials, the net realizable value of the finished goods, and the likelihood of obsolescence. If we do not achieve our targeted sales prices, if market conditions for our components or products were to decline or if we do not achieve our sales forecast, additional reductions in the carrying value of the inventory would be required. Warrant liability. In combination with our registered direct offerings of common stock in May and September 2013, we issued warrants to purchase common stock. Based on the terms in the conditional exchange provision of the warrants issued, we made the determination to classify the warrants as a liability given that the exchange provision could result in the issuance of a variable number of shares of common stock. At each balance sheet date that the warrants were outstanding, we evaluated the fair value of the warrants and any change in value was recorded as a non-operating gain or loss on the statement of operations. Due to the conditional exchange provision of the warrants, the determination of the fair value of the warrant liability varied depending on our common stock price. Because the price of our common stock was less than the exercise price of the warrant, we calculated the fair value of the warrant liability as the fair value of the common stock that would have been required to be issued to settle the exchange provision of the warrant. When the exchange provision was exercised by the holder, we recognized a gain or loss on the exchange based on the fair market value of the common stock issued by us to the holder to satisfy the exchange provision. The key accounting policies described above are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by generally accepted accounting principles, with no need for us to apply judgment or make estimates. There are also areas in which our judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result to our consolidated financial statements. Additional information about our accounting policies, and other disclosures required by generally accepted accounting principles, are set forth in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. Inflation has not had a material impact on our revenues, or income from continuing operations over the three most recent fiscal years. Results of Operations YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2014 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 Development Revenue. % of % of development development 2014 revenue 2013 revenue $ change % change (in thousands) Development revenue $ 1,691 100.0 $ 2,909 100.0 $ (1,218) (41.9) We earn development revenue from performance on collaborative research and development agreements with commercial customers researching and developing commercial applications for our technology. Our contributions under the collaborative agreements generally include research services, components, and prototype devices and fixtures. Our development revenue from such agreements in a particular period is dependent upon the values and timing of agreements, the availability of technical resources to perform the work, and achievement of mutually agreed upon contractual milestones. We evaluate the performance criteria and terms of our collaborative research and development agreements to determine whether revenue should be recognized under a performance-based method or milestone method. 17 In March 2013, we entered into a $4.6 million collaborative research and development agreement with a prominent electronics company to incorporate our PicoP display technology into a display module that could enable a variety of new products. As of September 30, 2014, we had completed all deliverables and obligations under the collaborative research and development agreement and had recognized the full contract value of $4.6 million. Based on the terms of this agreement, we recognized development revenue as work progressed on the agreement and as our customer accepted the deliverables using a proportional method based on the lesser of the cumulative proportion of total estimated costs to be incurred under the agreement versus the cash payments received plus outstanding billings for work accepted by the customer. Since collaborative agreements generally require some level of technology development, the actual costs required to complete a contract can vary from estimates. The proportional revenue recognition method we use for collaborative research and development agreements includes adjustments for revisions to estimated total agreement costs. Each period, we evaluate the total estimated costs for each agreement. Our backlog of collaborative research and development agreements at December 31, 2014 was zero compared to $1.7 million at December 31, 2013. Product Revenue. % of % of product product 2014 revenue 2013 revenue $ change % change (in thousands) Product revenue $ 392 100.0 $ 2,341 100.0 $ (1,949) (83.3) Product revenue primarily includes sales of components under our ingredient brand business model. Product revenue during the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily included sales of components to a former customer. Product revenue was lower during the year ended December 31, 2014 than the same period in 2013 as a result of lower component sales. The backlog of product orders at December 31, 2014 was approximately $3.6 million compared to $147,000 at December 31, 2013. The product backlog is scheduled for delivery within one year. Contract Revenue. % of % of contract contract 2014 revenue 2013 revenue $ change % change (in thousands) Contract revenue $ 1,402 100.0 $ 602 100.0 $ 800 132.9 We earn contract revenue from the sale of prototype units and evaluation kits based on our PicoP display technology and development contracts. Our contract revenue in a particular period is dependent upon when we enter into a contract, the value of the contracts, and the availability of technical resources to perform work on the contracts. Our contract revenue from sales of prototype units and evaluation kits may vary substantially due to the timing of orders from customers and potential constraints on resources. We recognize contract revenue upon acceptance of the deliverables by the customer or expiration of the contractual acceptance period, after which there are no rights of return. The increase in contract revenue during the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily the result of the delivery of customized PicoP display modules to a worldwide logistics company during the third quarter of 2014. Our contract backlog, including orders for prototype units and evaluation kits, at December 31, 2014 was $1.5 million compared to $285,000 at December 31, 2013, all of which is scheduled for completion during the next twelve months. 18 Cost of Product Revenue. % of % of product product 2014 revenue 2013 revenue $ change % change (in thousands) Cost of product revenue $ 228 58.2 $ 1,518 64.8 $ (1,290) (85.0) Cost of product revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect cost of manufacturing products sold to customers. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in the manufacture of these products. Indirect costs include labor, manufacturing overhead, and other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities and capacity. Manufacturing overhead includes the cost of procuring, inspecting and storing material, and facility and depreciation costs, and is allocated to cost of product revenue based on the proportion of direct material purchased to support production. The cost of product revenue as a percentage of product revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the product mix and volume, the level of manufacturing overhead expense and the volume of direct material purchased. Cost of product revenue was lower during the year ended December 31, 2014 than the same period in 2013 primarily because of reduced product sales. Cost of Contract Revenue. % of % of contract contract 2014 revenue 2013 revenue $ change % change (in thousands) Cost of contract revenue $ 816 58.2 $ 283 47.0 $ 533 188.3 Cost of contract revenue includes both the direct and allocated indirect costs of producing prototype units, evaluation kits and test equipment and performing on development contracts. Direct costs include labor, materials and other costs incurred directly in producing prototype units and evaluation kits or performing on a contract. Indirect costs include labor and other costs associated with operating our research and development department and building our technical capabilities and capacity. Cost of contract revenue is determined by the level of direct and indirect costs incurred, which can fluctuate substantially from period to period. The increase in cost of contract revenue during 2014, compared to 2013, was primarily the result of higher direct costs related to the delivery of customized PicoP display modules to a worldwide logistics company during the third quarter. The cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the contract cost mix and the levels of direct and indirect costs incurred. Research and Development Expense. 2014 2013 $ change % change (in thousands) Research and development $ 9,067 $ 10,544 $ (1,477) (14.0) Research and development expense consists of compensation related costs of employees and contractors engaged in internal research and product development activities, direct material to support development programs, laboratory operations, outsourced development and processing work, and other operating expenses. Research and development expense includes costs associated with our work under collaborative research and development arrangements. We assign our research and development resources based on the business opportunity of the available projects, the skill mix of the resources available and the contractual commitments we have made to customers. The decrease in research and development expense during 2014, compared to 2013, is primarily attributable to lower purchased labor and reduced non-cash compensation expense. We believe that a substantial level of continuing research and development expense will be required to further develop our technology. Accordingly, we anticipate our level of research and development spending will continue to be substantial. 19 Sales, Marketing, General and Administrative Expense. 2014 2013 $ change % change (in thousands) Sales, marketing, general and administrative $ 7,005 $ 8,757 $ (1,752) (20.0) Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense includes compensation and support costs incurred for marketing, sales, management and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including legal and accounting services, consultants and other operating expenses. The decrease in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense during 2014, compared to 2013, is primarily due to decreased payroll costs, lower depreciation expense and reduced non-cash compensation expense. Gain on sale of previously reserved inventory. 2014 2013 $ change % change (in thousands) Gain on sale of previously reserved inventory $ (463) $ (156) $ (307) 196.8 Gain on sale of previously reserved inventory includes the sales of excess component inventory for discontinued products and was fully reserved in prior periods. The increase during 2014, compared to 2013, is due to increased sales volume of previously reserved excess component inventory. Gain (Loss) on warrant exchange. 2014 2013 $ change % change (in thousands) Gain (loss) on warrant exchange $ (4,967) $ 1,900 $ (6,867) (361.4) Based on the terms of the warrants we issued in May and September, 2013, we determined to classify the warrants as a liability given that the warrants could result in the issuance of a variable number of shares of common stock based on a conditional exchange provision. At each balance sheet date, we evaluated the fair value of the warrants and any change in value was recorded as a non-operating gain or loss on the statement of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded non-operating gains of $1.9 million related to the change in value of the warrants. In February 2014, we issued 3,713,309 shares of our common stock under the exchange provisions of the warrants issued in our May and September 2013 registered direct offerings. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded a loss of $5.0 million on the exchange as the fair market value of the common stock issued was greater than the obligation recorded due to an increase in our stock price from December 31, 2013 to the date the warrants were exchanged. Other Income and Expense. 2014 2013 $ change % change (in thousands) Other income and expense $ 15 $ 16 $ (1) (6.3) The decrease in other income and expense was primarily from lower interest expense in 2014 compared to 2013. Income Taxes. No provision for income taxes has been recorded because we have experienced net losses from inception through December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014, we had net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $341.5 million for federal income tax reporting purposes. In addition, we have research and development tax credits of $6.5 million. The net operating loss carry-forwards and research and development credits available to offset future taxable income, if any, will expire in varying amounts from 2018 to 2034 if not previously used. In addition to the tax benefits above, we have $1.2 million of capital loss carry-forwards that are scheduled to expire between 2015 and 2017. In certain circumstances, as specified in the Internal Revenue Code, a 50% or more ownership change by certain combinations of our shareholders during any three-year period would result in a limitation on our ability to use a portion of our net operating loss carry-forwards. 20 We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. We did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2014 or at December 31, 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred significant losses since inception. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues and product sales. At December 31, 2014, we had $8.3 million in cash and cash equivalents. Based on our current operating plan, and including the $8.0 million payment received under a licensing agreement that was executed with our customer in March 2015, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations through December 2015. We will require additional cash to fund our operating plan past that time. We plan to obtain additional cash through sales and licensing activities and/or the issuance of equity or debt securities. There can be no assurance that additional cash will be available or that, if available, it will be available on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis. If adequate funds are not available on a timely basis, we intend to consider limiting our operations substantially. This limitation of operations could include reducing our planned investment in development projects resulting in reductions in staff, operating costs, capital expenditures and investments in research and development. We have received a report from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2014 that includes an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. These financial statements are prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. Cash used in operating activities totaled $13.0 million during 2014, compared to $12.7 million during 2013. Cash used in operating activities resulted primarily from cash used to fund our net loss, after adjusting for non-cash charges such as realized gains and losses on warrant exchange, stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities totaled $173,000 in 2014 compared to $340,000 in 2013. Purchases of property and equipment during 2014 totaled $207,000 compared to $375,000 during 2013. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities totaled $16.1 million in 2014, compared to $11.5 million in 2013. The following is a list of our financing activities during 2014 and 2013. In June 2014, we entered into an At-the-Market (ATM) equity agreement with Meyers Associates, L.P. Under the agreement we may from time to time, at our discretion offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $4.5 million. As of December 31, 2014 we have received proceeds of approximately $3.5 million before issuance costs of approximately $175,000 from the sale of 1.7 million shares of our common stock. In March 2014, we raised $13.9 million before issuance costs of approximately $1.0 million through an underwritten offering of 7.2 million shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 2.1 million shares of our common stock. Each unit was sold to investors for $1.94 and consisted one share of common stock and one warrant to purchase 0.3 shares of common stock. The warrants have an exercise price of $2.47 per share and expire on the fifth anniversary of the date of issuance. In September 2013, we raised $6.6 million before issuance costs of approximately $452,000 from the sale of 3.5 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 2.1 million shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering. In May 2013, we raised $5.85 million before issuance costs of approximately $362,000 from the sale of 2.6 million shares of common stock and warrants to purchase up to an aggregate of 2.0 million shares of our common stock in a registered direct offering. 21 Our cash requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which OEMs and ODMs introduce products incorporating our technology and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products. Our ability to raise capital will depend on numerous factors, including the following: market acceptance of products based on PicoP display technology, changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally, announcements by other companies in our industry, changes in business or regulatory conditions, announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products; the status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements, economic and stock market conditions, the cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights, our ability to establish cooperative development, joint venture and licensing arrangements, or other factors unrelated to our company or industry. If we are successful in establishing original equipment manufacturer co-development and joint venture arrangements, we expect our partners to fund certain non-recurring engineering costs for technology development and/or for product development. Nevertheless, we expect our cash requirements to remain high as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our light scanning technology. New accounting pronouncements See Note 2, "Summary of significant accounting policies," in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements found in part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.