Item 2 . Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This report, including "Part I Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Part II - Item 1A Risk Factors" contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Risk Factors," beginning at page 39 and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q . Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: The impact of disruptions to our manufacturing and the distribution of our products, including disruptions due to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government responses; That our lead times and ability to fulfill orders were significantly adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the early part of the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2020, but improved as the quarter progressed and the pandemic could adversely impact our business in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2020; That local governments could require us to temporarily reduce production further or cease operations at any of our facilities and we could experience constraints in fulfilling customer orders; Our belief that our actions to combat the spread of the COVID-19 virus will help preserve the health of our team members, customers, suppliers, visitors to our facilities, people with whom we conduct business and our communities, and allow us to safely continue operations; Our inability to predict how the COVID-19 pandemic, and actions taken by others in response to it, will affect our business; The effects that uncertain global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations; The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines and modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines; The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin; The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers; The impact of national security protections, trade restrictions and changes in tariffs, including those impacting China; Our expectation that in the future we will acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement our existing businesses; Our expectation that in the future we will enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies; The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter, including the impact of our product lead times; Our expectation that our September 2020 days of inventory levels will be up 1 to 13 days compared to the June 2020 levels. Our belief that our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers; The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us; Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel; Anticipating increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances in our products; Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base; The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities; Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing product lines and the effect of such an increase; Our belief that our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs; The impact of any supply disruption we may experience; 25 Table of Contents Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs; That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies; Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields; Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products; The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations; The cost savings from re-purposing Fab 5 for the manufacture of discrete and specialty products in addition to a lower volume of a diversified set of standard products and transferring the manufacture of certain higher volume products to other facilities; Our anticipated level of capital expenditures; Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends; The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them; The impact of seasonality on our business; Our belief that our IT system compromise has not had a material adverse effect on our business or resulted in any material damage to us; Our expectation that we will continue to be the target of attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems; The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards; That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss; The accuracy of our estimated tax rate; Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our effective tax rate; The impact of the geographical dispersion of our earnings and losses on our effective tax rate; Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements are reasonable; Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis; Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation; The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims or indemnification claims; The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and/or cash flows; The effect of fluctuations in currency rates; That we could increase our borrowings or seek additional equity or debt financing to maintain or expand our facilities, or to fund cash dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions or other corporate activities, and that the timing and amount of such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors; Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debentures in cash; Our intention to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. Changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings; and Our ability to collect accounts receivable. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q . Although we believe that the expectations reflected in our forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update the information contained in any forward-looking statement. 26 Table of Contents Introduction The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. We begin our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of COVID-19 developments followed by a summary of our overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then discuss our Results of Operations for the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources", "Contractual Obligations" and "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements." COVID-19 Developments The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a global reduction in economic activity by adversely affecting production, creating supply chain and market disruption, and adversely impacting businesses and individuals. The severity and duration of the economic impact is currently unknown and will depend on many factors, such as the effectiveness of containment efforts. We regularly monitor new information regarding the severity of the COVID-19 virus and the ability to contain, treat, or prevent it. Demand for our products has increased in the areas of our business that support the stay-at-home economy, such as products used in medical devices, datacenters, communications infrastructure, computers, printers, monitors and contact free consumer and industrial products. However, demand has decreased in other areas such as automotive, broad based industrial, consumer and home appliances. We have seen a greater number of order cancellations and requests to reschedule deliveries to future dates. In particular, in the early part of the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2020, some customers requested order cancellation within our firm order window and claimed applicability of force majeure clauses. While we have a diverse customer base operating in diverse industries, the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on demand for our products depends on unpredictable future developments. At this time, our global manufacturing sites are operational, though certain of them are operating at reduced utilization levels. This may be due to local restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as our Philippine manufacturing sites, or a decrease in demand for products manufactured at a particular site. Additionally, travel restrictions have impacted our subcontractors' manufacturing operations in Malaysia and China, and similar challenges have arisen for our logistics service providers, which has impacted their ability to ship product to our customers. The overall adverse impact to our lead times and ability to fulfill orders was significant in the early part of the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2020 but improved as the quarter progressed. However, the pandemic could adversely impact our business in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2020 and could continue to adversely impact our business in future periods if the number of COVID-19 cases increases. In the future, local governments could require us to temporarily reduce production further or cease operations at any of our facilities and we could experience constraints in fulfilling customer orders. In response to the early indications of the COVID-19 pandemic, we took proactive measures to safeguard the health of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, visitors to our facilities, other business partners, and our communities. We strategically implemented plans intended to ensure business continuity in the event severe outbreaks or government requirements were to impact our operations. We are committed to the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, visitors to our facilities, other business partners, and communities. We are following governmental policies and CDC recommendations designed to slow the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Our efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic include the following: We require social distancing, and have established distancing protocols at our facilities. We currently prohibit visitors, have suspended business travel, have suspended attendance at conferences and other gatherings, and require team members to work from home to the extent possible. Where work from home is not possible, all on-site team members are requested to take their temperatures before arriving to work, stay home if they do not feel well, stay home if they have been exposed to someone with the COVID-19 virus or its symptoms, maintain a safe distance from others, wash their hands frequently, and wear a mask if they choose. We clean high touch surfaces daily. 27 Table of Contents In partnership with our suppliers, we have evaluated our supply chain to identify gaps or weak points. In order to ensure continuity, in some cases, we have qualified alternative suppliers and increased our inventory of raw materials. We have added assembly and test capacity to provide redundant manufacturing capability through our network of subcontractors. We have implemented measures to help prepare for an economic downturn, such as implementing employee salary cuts, limiting hiring, reducing business travel costs, reducing discretionary spending, and limiting capital expenditures. We are working with government authorities in the areas where we have a significant footprint. We continue to update ourselves on government requirements, relevant regulations, industry standards, and best practices to help safeguard our team members across the globe. We believe these actions are important and will help preserve the health of our team members, customers, suppliers, visitors to our facilities, people with whom we conduct business and our communities, and allow us to safely continue operations. However, we cannot predict how these actions, or the actions taken by government entities, suppliers, or customers in response to the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business, revenues, or results of operations. Strategy Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontrollers, microprocessors, field-programmable gate array (FPGA) products, a broad spectrum of high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, radio frequency (RF), timing, timing systems, safety, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity devices, as well as Serial Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory (EEPROM), Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial Electrically Erasable Random Access Memory (EERAM) and Serial Static Random Access Memory (SRAM). We also license Flash-IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products. We license our SuperFlash technology and other technologies to wafer foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products, gate array, RF and analog products that require embedded non-volatile memory. We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries. The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, aerospace, office communication, and computing. Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets. Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin. We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties. Our acquisition of Microsemi, in May 2018, significantly increased the amount of our outsourced manufacturing requirements. We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. 28 Table of Contents We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, FPGAs, timing systems, Flash-IP, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products. We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our client engagement managers (CEMs), embedded solutions engineers (ESEs), and sales management personnel have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical and business knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for CEMs and distributor sales teams. ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world or through online webcasts, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support. See "Our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry," on page 45 for discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There were no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the first three months of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2021 compared to our "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" as previously described in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 . Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the periods covered by this report: Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 39.0 38.4 Gross profit 61.0 61.6 Research and development 15.1 16.6 Selling, general and administrative 11.2 12.7 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 18.0 18.8 Special charges and other, net 0.6 Operating income 16.7 % 13.0 % Net Sales We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit. 29 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our net sales for the periods covered by this report (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 2019 Change Net sales $ 1,309.7 $ 1,322.6 (1.0 )% The decrease in net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 was primarily due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve. As an indication of these adverse fluctuations, the net sales value of inventory at our distributor customers increased $16.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to a decrease of $27.2 million during the three months ended June 30, 2019. Excluding the change in inventory levels at our distributors, end market demand decreased by 4.2%, and was negatively impacted by general economic conditions and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These adverse conditions did not impact each of the end markets we serve in the same manner. For instance, in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019, we experienced relatively weaker demand for our products that are used in the consumer, automotive and industrial markets and relatively stronger demand for our products that are used in the computing and communications markets. Due to the size, complexity and diversity of our customer base, we are not able to quantify the impact that general economic conditions and the COVID-19 pandemic had on each of our end markets. Other factors that we believe contributed to changes in our reported net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 and which are drivers of long-term trends in our net sales but which factors we are not able to quantify include: semiconductor industry conditions; our various new product offerings that have increased our served available market; customers increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions; and increasing semiconductor content in our customers products. We sell a large number of products to a large and diverse customer base and there was not any single product or customer that accounted for a material portion of the change in our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the prior year period. The overall average selling price of our products is affected by pricing declines over the life of individual products; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period. The overall average selling price of our products did not change significantly during the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. Net sales by product line for the periods covered by this report were as follows (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 % 2019 % Microcontrollers $ 716.4 54.7 $ 708.3 53.6 Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products 370.2 28.3 386.4 29.2 Field-programmable gate array products 86.8 6.6 91.0 6.9 Licensing, memory and other 136.3 10.4 136.9 10.3 Total net sales $ 1,309.7 100.0 $ 1,322.6 100.0 Microcontrollers Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 54.7% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 53.6% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Net sales of our microcontroller products increased 1.1% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 due primarily to strength in the computing and communications markets, partially offset by weakness in the consumer, automotive and industrial markets. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary 30 Table of Contents nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have in the past been able to, and expect in the future to be able to, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. The average selling price of our microcontroller products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in the average selling price of our microcontroller products in any given period. Analog, Interface, Mixed Signal and Timing Products Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 28.3% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 29.2% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products decreased 4.2% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 due primarily to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve. Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time. Field-Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) Products Sales of our FPGA products accounted for approximately 6.6% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 6.9% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Net sales of our FPGA products decreased 4.6% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. This was due primarily to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve. FPGA product pricing has historically been relatively stable because they are proprietary products with significant design in complexity and are frequently designed into long-lived end applications. Licensing, Memory and Other Licensing, memory and other (LMO) includes royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, timing systems, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications. Revenue from these services and products accounted for approximately 10.4% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 10.3% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Net sales related to these services and products decreased 0.4% in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019. This sales decrease was due primarily to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve. LMO net sales can fluctuate over time based on general economic and semiconductor industry conditions as well as changes in demand for our licenses, engineering services, memory products, and manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting). Distribution Distributors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales in each of the three months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which made up 11% our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. 31 Table of Contents Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. At June 30, 2020, our distributors maintained 30 days of inventory of our products compared to 29 days at March 31, 2020. Over the past ten fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between approximately 27 days and 47 days. Inventory holding patterns at our distributors may have a material impact on our net sales. Sales by Geography Sales by geography for the periods covered by this report were as follows (dollars in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 % 2019 % Americas $ 343.0 26.2 $ 346.7 26.2 Europe 245.3 18.7 291.1 22.0 Asia 721.4 55.1 684.8 51.8 Total net sales $ 1,309.7 100.0 $ 1,322.6 100.0 Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 77% of our total net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 79% of our total net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated. Sales to customers in Europe as a percentage of total sales decreased in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers that service the automotive and industrial markets in Europe. Sales to customers in Asia as a percentage of total sales increased in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2019 due to the fact that the COVID-19 pandemic was largely under control in China and Taiwan, which represent the highest percentage of our net sales in Asia, during the three months ended June 30, 2020, and therefore, the geography returned to higher levels of demand. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. Gross Profit Our gross profit in the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $798.3 million, or 61.0% of net sales, compared to $815.2 million, or 61.6% of net sales, in the three months ended June 30, 2019. The following table summarizes the material and primary drivers of our change in gross profit as a percentage of net sales, with the material factors discussed in more detail below the table (dollars in millions): Gross Profit % of Net Sales $ 815.2 61.6 Three months ended June 30, 2019 (10.1 ) Decrease in semiconductor net sales at June 30, 2019 gross margins and excluding the impact of other factors quantified in this table (6.6 ) (0.5 ) Impact of unabsorbed capacity charges (3.0 ) (0.3 ) Impact of higher costs per unit related to sold inventory 3.4 0.3 Increase in net sales to licensing customers, which has no associated cost of sales (0.6 ) (0.1 ) Other individually immaterial factors $ 798.3 61.0 Three months ended June 30, 2020 Unabsorbed capacity charges - When production levels are below normal capacity, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity. During the three months ended June 30, 2020 , we operated at below normal capacity levels due to lower demand for our products primarily related to general economic conditions and uncertainty from the COVID-19 pandemic resulting in unabsorbed capacity charges of $13.9 million compared to unabsorbed capacity charges of $7.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019 . We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions. 32 Table of Contents Higher costs per unit related to sold inventory - Our product cost per unit may fluctuate over time due to cost of materials and other factors and also fluctuate based on the mix of products sold. During the three months ended June 30, 2020, product mix resulted in $3.0 million higher cost of goods sold and decrease in gross profit than the comparable metric in the three months ended June 30, 2019. The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.13 micron to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. All of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report. We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%. Our wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron that run on 6-inch wafers. We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%. Our overall inventory levels were $657.2 million at June 30, 2020, compared to $685.7 million at March 31, 2020. We maintained 117 days of inventory on our balance sheet at June 30, 2020 compared to 122 days of inventory at March 31, 2020. We expect our days of inventory levels in the September 2020 quarter to be up 1 to 13 days compared to the June 2020 levels. We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, FPGA products, memory products and technology licensing revenue and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve. During fiscal 2020, we announced our intention to re-purpose Fab 5 to manufacture discrete and specialty products in addition to a lower volume of a diversified set of standard products. In connection with these efforts, we reduced the clean room footprint and transferred certain higher volume products from Fab 5 to our 8-inch wafer fabrication facilities in Arizona and Oregon. We anticipate that these actions will result in significant cost savings over the next several years. In fiscal 2020, we incurred $18.0 million in costs associated with these actions and during the three months ended June 30, 2020, we incurred $1.0 million in such costs, all of which have been recorded within the special charges and other, net line item in our statements of income. We expect to incur less than $7.0 million within fiscal 2021 for the remaining associated costs of these restructuring activities. We operate assembly and test facilities in Thailand, the Philippines, and other locations throughout the world. Approximately 47% of our assembly requirements were performed in our internal assembly facilities in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 45% during the three months ended June 30, 2019. Approximately 55% of our test requirements were performed in our internal test facilities in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to approximately 54% during the three months ended June 30, 2019. The increases in the percentage of assembly and test operations that were performed internally in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 are primarily due to our investments in assembly and test equipment, which increased our internal capacity capabilities, and also due to adverse demand fluctuations in the markets we serve, which reduced our demand for external assembly and test operations. Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly and test operations. The percentage of our assembly and test operations that are performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. We plan to continue to transition certain outsourced assembly and test capacity to our internal facilities. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in each of the three months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. Research and Development (R&D) 33 Table of Contents R&D expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2020 were $198.0 million, or 15.1% of net sales, compared to $219.1 million, or 16.6% of net sales, for the three months ended June 30, 2019. We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives. R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. R&D expenses decreased $21.1 million, or 9.6%, for the three months ended June 30, 2020 over the same period last year. The primary reason for the decrease in R&D costs was due to management of discretionary spending, including reduced headcount costs and travel expenses, due to uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. R&D expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2020 were $146.3 million, or 11.2% of net sales, compared to $167.9 million, or 12.7% of net sales, for the three months ended June 30, 2019. Our goal is to continue to be more efficient with our operating expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force, CEMs and ESEs who work remotely from sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $21.6 million, or 12.9%, for the three months ended June 30, 2020 over the same period last year. The primary reason for the decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to management of discretionary spending, including reduced headcount costs and travel expenses, due to uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $235.4 million, compared to $248.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019. The primary reason for the decrease was lower amortization from our acquisition of Microsemi and from our prior acquisitions. Special Charges and Other, Net During the three months ended June 30, 2020, we incurred special charges and other, net of $0.3 million, compared to $8.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019. The costs incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2020 were primarily related to restructuring of our wafer fabrication operations. Other restructuring expenses incurred during the three months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 were related to our most recent business acquisitions, and resulted from workforce, property and other operating expense rationalizations as well as combining product roadmaps and manufacturing operations. Other Income (Expense) Interest income in the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $0.3 million compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019. Interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $99.1 million compared to $132.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019. The primary reason for the decrease in interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the same period last year relates to the cumulative pay down of our debt and lower interest rates on our outstanding variable rate debt. 34 Table of Contents During the three months ended June 30, 2020, we recognized losses of $26.8 million related to the settlement of approximately $383.3 million in principal of our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt, approximately $643.9 million in principal of our 2017 Senior Convertible Debt and $615.0 million of borrowings under our Bridge Loan Facility. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we recognized losses of $1.9 million related to the voluntary prepayment of a portion of the outstanding balance on our Term Loan Facility. Other loss, net in the three months ended June 30, 2020 was $3.2 million compared to other income, net of $2.7 million for the three months ended June 30, 2019. The primary reason for the decrease in other income (expense) in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to the same period last year relates to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Provision for Income Taxes We account for incomes taxes in accordance with ASC 740. Our provision or benefit for income taxes is attributable to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. A comparison of our effective tax rates for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019 is not meaningful due to the amount of pre-tax income, and income tax benefits recorded during the period. We are subject to taxation in many jurisdictions in which we have operations. The effective tax rates that we pay in these jurisdictions vary widely, but they are generally lower than our combined U.S. federal and state effective tax rate. Our domestic statutory tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2020 was approximately 22% and our domestic statutory tax rate for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was approximately 22%. Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2020 and fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 were much lower than this amount. The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, tax holidays, financing arrangements and other factors. Our effective tax rate has been, and will continue to be impacted by the geographical dispersion of our earnings and losses. Our foreign tax rate differential benefit primarily relates to our operations and assets in Thailand, Malta and Ireland. Our Thailand manufacturing operations are currently subject to numerous tax holidays granted to us based on our investment in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future; however, we actively seek to obtain new tax holidays, otherwise we will be subject to tax at the statutory tax rate of 20%. We do not expect the future expiration of any of our tax holiday periods in Thailand to have a material impact on our effective tax rate. The remaining material components of foreign income taxed at a rate lower than the U.S. are earnings accrued in Ireland at a 12.5% statutory tax rate and earnings accrued in Malta at a 0% to 5% tax rate. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, our fiscal 2007 and later tax returns remain effectively open for examination by the taxing authorities. We are currently being audited by the tax authorities in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. At this time, we do not know what the outcome of these audits will be. We record benefits for uncertain tax positions based on an assessment of whether it is more likely than not that the tax positions will be sustained based on their technical merits under currently enacted law. If this threshold is not met, no tax benefit of the uncertain tax position is recognized. If the threshold is met, we recognize the largest amount of the tax benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. On July 27, 2015, in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. In the July 2015 ruling, the Tax Court concluded that the sharing of the cost of employee stock compensation in a companys cost-sharing arrangement was invalid under the U.S. Administrative Procedures Act. In June 2019, a panel of the Ninth Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals reversed this decision. In July 2019, Altera petitioned U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit to hold an en banc rehearing of the case. In November 2019, the en banc rehearing petition was denied, and Altera asked the U.S. Supreme Court for a judicial review. On June 22, 2020, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to issue a writ of certiorari in Altera v Commissioner , leaving intact the decision reached by the Ninth Circuit of the U.S. Court of Appeals. Based on the Ninth Circuit Opinion, we recorded a cumulative income tax expense of $21.8 million during the three months ended June 30, 2020 . 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $380.2 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments at June 30, 2020 , a decrease of $22.8 million from the March 31, 2020 balance. Net cash provided by operating activities was $501.8 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $380.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to efforts focused on working capital and discretionary spending management. Net cash used in investing activities was $16.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $26.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019. During the three months ended June 30, 2020 and June 30, 2019, net investing activities primarily related to capital purchases and investments in other assets. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures in the three months ended June 30, 2020 were $9.5 million compared to $23.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity, the addition of research and development equipment and new office buildings. We currently intend to spend between $50 million and $70 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to support the growth of our production capabilities for our new products and technologies and to bring in-house more of the assembly and test operations that are currently outsourced. We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. Net cash used in financing activities was $507.7 million in the three months ended June 30, 2020 compared to $348.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2019. Significant transactions affecting our net financing cash flows include: in the first three months of fiscal 2021, net proceeds of $2.18 billion from the issuance of our 2.670% 2023 Notes and our 4.250% 2025 Notes used to finance the cash portion of our settlement of approximately $383.3 million in principal amount of our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt and approximately $643.9 million in principal amount of our 2017 Senior Convertible Debt, $615.0 million to repay in full all amounts outstanding under our Bridge Loan Facility, and $933.9 million and used $17.8 million of cash to pay down borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility and our Term Loan Facility, respectively, in the first three months of fiscal 2020, $257.5 million of cash used to pay down principal on the Term Loan Facility and the Revolving Credit Facility, net of amounts borrowed under our Revolving Credit Facility, and in the first three months of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, we paid cash dividends to our stockholders of $90.4 million and $87.1 million , respectively. In March 2020 and September 2019, we amended our credit agreement dated May 29, 2018, to, among other things, reduce the margin added to the interest rate on revolving loans under the Credit Agreement and amend certain negative covenants, including covenants that restrict our and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens and enter into certain restrictive agreements. The amendments also allow us the option to factor receivables and certain related assets. The amendments lowered the Revolving Credit Facility thereunder to $3.57 billion from $3.60 billion . The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of approximately $3.57 billion, with a $250.0 million foreign currency sublimit, a $50.0 million letter of credit sublimit and a $25.0 million swingline loan sublimit. The Credit Agreement also provides for the Term Loan Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility consists of $3.57 billion of revolving loan commitments (the "2023 Revolving Loans") that terminate on May 18, 2023 (the "2023 Maturity Date"). The 2023 Revolving Loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus a spread of 0.00% to 0.75% or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a spread of 1.00% to 1.75%, in each case, with such spread being determined based on the consolidated senior leverage ratio for the preceding four fiscal quarter period. At June 30, 2020 , we had $1.45 billion and $1.71 billion of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan Facility, respectively, compared to $2.39 billion and $1.72 billion at March 31, 2020 , respectively. See Note 6 of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our Credit Agreement. The enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the "Act") imposed a tax on all previously untaxed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries of U.S. corporations. Due to this change, the jurisdiction in which our cash is at any given point in time no longer has a significant impact on our liquidity. Future distributions of a significant portion of our non-U.S. assets to the U.S. will no longer be subject to U.S. federal taxation. We intend to invest substantially all of our foreign subsidiary earnings, as well as our capital in our foreign subsidiaries, indefinitely outside of the U.S. in those jurisdictions in which we would incur significant, additional costs upon repatriation of such amounts. 36 Table of Contents We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At June 30, 2020 , we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. There were no repurchases of common stock during the first three months of fiscal 2021 . As of June 30, 2020 , we held approximately 12.6 million shares as treasury shares. On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. A quarterly cash dividend of $0.3675 per share was paid on June 4, 2020 in the aggregate amount of $90.4 million . A quarterly dividend of $0.3680 per share was declared on August 4, 2020 and will be paid on September 4, 2020 to stockholders of record as of August 21, 2020 . We expect the aggregate cash dividend for September 2020 to be approximately $93.0 million . Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, our results of operations, and potential changes in tax laws. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may increase our borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash (including the impact of the Act), demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. We may from time to time seek to refinance certain of our outstanding notes or convertible debt through issuances of new notes or convertible debt or through exchange transactions. Such issuances or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our ability to negotiate acceptable terms, our liquidity position and other factors. There can be no assurance that any financing will be available on acceptable terms due to unfavorable market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations for the remainder of fiscal 2021 and thereafter, and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in millions): Payments Due by Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Total 2021 2022 - 2023 2024 - 2025 Thereafter Operating lease obligations $ 211.0 $ 38.2 $ 71.7 $ 33.1 $ 68.0 Capital purchase obligations (1) 20.4 20.4 Other purchase obligations and commitments (2) 127.8 125.6 1.9 0.3 Revolving Credit Facility (3) 1,535.5 21.1 56.1 1,458.3 Term Loan Facility (4) 1,888.5 27.9 74.4 74.4 1,711.8 4.333% 2023 Notes (5) 1,130.1 21.7 86.7 1,021.7 3.922% 2021 Notes (6) 1,039.2 19.6 1,019.6 2.670% 2023 Notes (7) 1,087.2 20.4 53.4 1,013.4 4.250% 2025 Notes (8) 1,468.5 39.0 102.0 102.0 1,225.5 2017 Senior Convertible Debt (9) 1,588.2 23.2 46.3 46.3 1,472.4 2015 Senior Convertible Debt (10) 785.7 11.8 23.6 750.3 2017 Junior Convertible Debt (11) 948.5 15.4 30.9 30.9 871.3 Pension obligations (12) 21.8 1.0 3.3 4.6 12.9 Transition tax obligation (13) 243.8 23.2 46.4 101.6 72.6 Total contractual obligations (14) $ 12,096.2 $ 408.5 $ 1,616.3 $ 4,636.9 $ 5,434.5 37 Table of Contents (1) Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for construction or purchases of property, plant and equipment. These obligations were not recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet as of June 30, 2020 , as we have not yet received the related goods or taken title to the property. (2) Other purchase obligations and commitments include payments due under various types of licenses and outstanding purchase commitments with our wafer foundries. (3) For purposes of this table, we have assumed that the principal of our 2023 revolving loans outstanding at June 30, 2020 will be paid on May 18, 2023, which is the maturity date of such borrowings. (4) The Term Loan Facility matures on May 29, 2025. (5) The 4.333% 2023 Notes mature on June 1, 2023. (6) The 3.922% 2021 Notes mature on June 1, 2021. (7) The 2.670% 2023 Notes mature on September 1, 2023. (8) The 4.250% 2025 Notes mature on September 1, 2025. (9) For purposes of this table, we have assumed that the principal of our 2017 Senior Convertible Debt will be paid on February 15, 2027, which is the maturity date of such debt. (10) For purposes of this table, we have assumed that the principal of our 2015 Senior Convertible Debt will be paid on February 15, 2025, which is the maturity date of such debt. (11) For purposes of this table, we have assumed that the principal of our 2017 Junior Convertible Debt will be paid on February 15, 2037, which is the maturity date of such debt. (12) For purposes of this table, pension obligations due in more than 5 years represent the expected pension payments from 2026 through 2030. It excludes pension obligations subsequent to 2030. (13) During fiscal 2018, we recognized a provisionary one-time transition tax on accumulated unrepatriated foreign earnings, estimated at $644.7 million, as a result of the Act. As of December 31, 2018, with the conclusion of the measurement period in accordance with SAB 118, we increased this amount by $13.1 million to $657.8 million, of which we expect cash payments of approximately $290.3 million after offsets by the utilization of various tax attribute carryforwards in the U.S. This tax is payable over a period of eight years, with 8% of the transition tax payable each year for fiscal 2019 through fiscal 2023, and 15%, 20%, and 25%, respectively, payable during fiscal 2024, 2025, and 2026. (14) The contractual obligations do not include amounts related to uncertain tax positions because reasonable estimates cannot be made. Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of raw materials and other goods and services, with the exception of commitments to our wafer foundries, are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for the purchase of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on us and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Our purchase orders are based on our current manufacturing needs and are fulfilled by our vendors with short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of raw materials or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. We also enter into contracts for outsourced services; however, the obligations under these contracts were not significant and the contracts generally contain clauses allowing for cancellation without significant penalty. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees) As of June 30, 2020 , we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K with the exception of standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements. 38 Table of Contents