Managements Discussion and Analysis (Part II, Item 7). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Microsoft was founded in 1975. Our mission is to enable people and organizations throughout the world to do more and achieve more by creating technology that transforms the way people learn, work, play, and communicate. We develop and market software, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to peoples lives. We do business worldwide and have offices in more than 100 countries. We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and services, by designing, manufacturing, and selling devices, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global customer audience. In addition to selling individual products and services, we offer suites of products and services. Our products include operating systems for computing devices, servers, phones, and other intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; productivity applications; business solution applications; desktop and server management tools; software development tools; video games; and online advertising. We also design and sell hardware including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment consoles, phones, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. We offer cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services, and content over the Internet by way of shared computing resources located in centralized data centers. Examples of cloud-based computing services we offer include Bing, Microsoft Azure, Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Office 365, OneDrive, Skype, Xbox Live, and Yammer. Cloud revenue is earned primarily from usage fees, advertising, and subscriptions. We also provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and developers. We conduct research and develop advanced technologies for future software, devices, and services. We believe that we will continue to grow and meet our customers needs as the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. We will continue to create new opportunities for partners, increase customer satisfaction, and improve our service excellence, business efficacy, and internal processes. OPERATING SEGMENTS During the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we changed our organizational structure as part of our transformation to a devices and services company. As a result, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, beginning in fiscal year 2014, we reported our financial performance based on our new segments: Devices and Consumer (D&C) Licensing, D&C Hardware, D&C Other, Commercial Licensing, and Commercial Other. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 On April 25, 2014, we completed the transaction to acquire substantially all of Nokia Corporations (Nokia) Devices and Services Business (NDS). We report the financial performance of NDS in our new Phone Hardware segment. Prior to the acquisition of NDS, financial results associated with our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia were reflected in our D&C Licensing segment. The contractual relationship with Nokia related to those initiatives terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. With the creation of the new Phone Hardware segment, the D&C Hardware segment was renamed Computing and Gaming Hardware in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation of development, sales, marketing, and services resources within businesses. Additional information on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note 21 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements. Devices and Consumer Our D&C segments develop, manufacture, market, and support products and services designed to increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, entertain and connect people, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our D&C segments are made up of D&C Licensing, Computing and Gaming Hardware, Phone Hardware, and D&C Other. D&C Licensing The principal products and services provided by the D&C Licensing segment are: Windows, including original equipment manufacturer (OEM) licensing (Windows OEM) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing of the Windows operating system and related software; non-volume licensing of Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (Office Consumer); Windows Phone operating system, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue. The Windows operating system is designed to empower individuals, companies, and organizations to simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the users hardware and software. Windows revenue growth is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume, Windows revenue is impacted by: the mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size; differences in device market demand between developed markets and emerging markets; attachment of Windows to devices shipped; customer mix between consumer, small and medium sized businesses, and large enterprises; changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel; pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large, multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed; piracy; and sales of packaged software. The versions of Office included in our D&C Licensing segment are designed to increase personal productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Growth depends on our ability to add value to the core product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other areas such as content management and collaboration. Office Consumer revenue is impacted by sales to customers that buy Office with their new devices and by product launches, as well as the transition to Office 365 Consumer, our subscription-based cloud service that provides access to Office plus other productivity services. Office 365 Consumer revenue is included in our D&C Other segment. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 The Windows Phone operating system is designed to bring users closer to the people, applications, and content they need. As noted above, prior to our acquisition of NDS, Microsoft and Nokia jointly created new mobile products and services and extended established products and services to new markets through a strategic alliance. Windows Phone revenue associated with this contractual relationship was reflected in D&C Licensing. Windows Phone revenue also includes revenue from licensing mobile-related patents. Competition The Windows operating system faces competition from various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable productivity, and the largest support network for any operating system. Competitors to the versions of Office included in D&C Licensing include global application vendors such as Apple and Google, numerous web-based competitors, and local application developers in Asia and Europe. Apple distributes versions of its pre-installed application software, such as email, note taking, and calendar products, through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite and distributes its productivity services through the Android and Chrome operating systems. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves as alternatives to our products. We believe our products compete effectively based on our strategy of providing powerful, flexible, secure, and easy to use solutions that work across a variety of devices. Windows Phone operating system faces competition from iOS, Android, and Blackberry operating systems. Windows Phone competes based on differentiated user interface, personalized applications, compatibility with Windows PCs and tablets, and other unique capabilities. Computing and Gaming Hardware The principal products and services provided by the Computing and Gaming Hardware segment are: Xbox gaming and entertainment consoles and accessories, second-party and third-party video game royalties, and Xbox Live subscriptions (Xbox Platform); Surface devices and accessories; and Microsoft PC accessories. The Xbox Platform is designed to provide a unique variety of entertainment choices through the use of our devices, peripherals, content, and online services. We released Xbox 360 and Xbox One in November 2005 and November 2013, respectively. Surface devices are designed to help organizations, students, and consumers to be more productive, offering accessories and compatibility with peripherals. Surface devices were first released in October 2012. Our latest Surface device, the Surface Pro 3, was released in June 2014. Competition Our Xbox Platform competes with console platforms from Sony and Nintendo, both of which have a large, established base of customers. The lifecycle for gaming and entertainment consoles averages five to ten years. Nintendo released their latest generation console in November 2012. Sony released their latest generation console in November 2013. We believe the success of gaming and entertainment consoles is determined by the availability of games for the console, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the console, and the ability to create new experiences via online services, downloadable content, and peripherals. In addition to Sony and Nintendo, we compete with other providers of entertainment services through online marketplaces. We believe the Xbox Platform is effectively positioned against competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own game franchises as well as other digital content offerings. 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 Surface devices face competition from computer, tablet, and other hardware manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and customers. Phone Hardware The principal products and services provided by the new Phone Hardware segment are Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones, which we began manufacturing and selling with the acquisition of NDS on April 25, 2014. Competition Our phones face competition primarily from Samsung and Apple, as well as many other mobile device manufacturers. We believe our phones will compete by being tailored for virtually every demographic and geography worldwide, offering unique industrial design and imaging technologies at high and low ranges of price points, and by incorporating Microsofts digital work and digital life experiences. D&C Other The principal products and services provided by the D&C Other segment are: Resale, including the Windows Store, Xbox Live transactions, and the Windows Phone Store; search advertising; display advertising; Office 365 Consumer, comprising Office 365 Home and Office 365 Personal; Studios, comprising first-party video games; and our retail stores. Windows Store and Windows Phone Store are online application marketplaces that are designed to benefit our developers and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base and benefit users by providing centralized access to certified applications. Xbox Live transactions consist of online entertainment content, such as games, music, movies, and TV shows, accessible on Xbox consoles and other devices. Search and display advertising includes Bing, Bing Ads, MSN, Windows Services, and Xbox ads. We are the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo! websites worldwide. We have completed the Yahoo! worldwide algorithmic transition and the paid search transition in the U.S. and planned international markets. Office 365 Consumer is designed to increase personal productivity through a range of Microsoft Office programs and services delivered across multiple platforms via the cloud. Studios designs and markets games for Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and online. Growth depends on our ability to attract new users and increase engagement by developing a deep library of content which consumers seek. Competition We face competition for our Resale products and services from various online marketplaces, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, and Google. Our search and display advertising business competes with Google and a wide array of websites, social platforms like Facebook, and portals like Yahoo! that provide content and online offerings to end users. Our success depends on our ability to attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content and advertiser offerings. We believe we can attract new users by continuing to offer new and compelling products and services. We differentiate our offerings by providing a broad selection of content that helps users make faster, informed decisions, and take action more quickly by providing relevant search results, expanded search services, and deeply-integrated social recommendations. Competitors to Office 365 Consumer are the same as those discussed above for Office Consumer. 6 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 Competitors to Studios are the same as those discussed above for our Xbox gaming and entertainment business, as well as game studios like Electronic Arts and Activision Blizzard. Commercial Our Commercial segments develop, market, and support software and services designed to increase individual, team, and organization productivity and efficiency, and to simplify everyday tasks through seamless operations across the users hardware and software. Commercial is made up of the Commercial Licensing and Commercial Other segments. Commercial Licensing The principal products and services provided by the Commercial Licensing segment are: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (CAL); Windows Embedded; volume licensing of the Windows operating system, excluding academic (Windows Commercial); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and related CAL (Office Commercial); Skype; and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online. Our server products are designed to make information technology professionals and developers and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity software. We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Revenue comes from product revenue, including purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to OEMs, and retail packaged product. CAL provide access rights to certain server and Office products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync. CAL revenue is reported along with the associated server or Office product. Windows Embedded extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent systems, including the Internet of Things, by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services. Windows Commercial revenue is mainly affected by the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance, often reflecting the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise, and is therefore relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. The versions of Office in Commercial Licensing are designed to increase personal, team and organizational productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and software assurance and the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise, and is therefore relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. Skype is designed to connect friends, family, clients, and colleagues through a variety of devices. Revenue is largely driven by the sale of minutes, subscriptions, and advertising. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Revenue is largely driven by the number of information workers licensed. Competition Our server operating system products face competition from a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating system preinstalled on 7 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system and many contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux. We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that compete with our enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based distributed client/server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java middleware such as Geronimo, Wildfly, and Spring Framework. Our system management solutions compete with server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, and other companies. Our products for software developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, other companies, and open-source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails, among others. Our embedded systems compete in a highly fragmented environment in which key competitors include IBM, Intel, and versions of embeddable Linux from commercial Linux vendors such as Metrowerks and MontaVista Software. We believe our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security, and manageability. Competitors to Windows Commercial are the same as those discussed above for Windows in the D&C Licensing segment. Office Commercial revenue growth depends on our ability to add value to the core product set and to continue to expand our product offerings in other areas such as content management, enterprise search, collaboration, unified communications, and business intelligence. Competitors to Office Commercial includes software application vendors such as Adobe Systems, Apple, Cisco Systems, Google, IBM, Oracle, SAP, and numerous web-based competitors as well as local application developers in Asia and Europe. Cisco Systems is using its position in enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Web-based offerings competing with individual applications can also position themselves as alternatives to our products. We believe our products compete effectively based on our strategy of providing powerful, flexible, secure, easy to use solutions that work well with technologies our customers already have and are available on a device or via the cloud. Skype competes with a variety of instant messaging, voice, and video communication providers, ranging from start-ups to established enterprises. Our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Oracle and SAP in the market for large organizations and divisions of global enterprises. In the market focused on providing solutions for small and mid-sized businesses, our Microsoft Dynamics products compete with vendors such as Infor, The Sage Group, and NetSuite. Salesforce.coms cloud CRM offerings compete directly with Microsoft Dynamics CRM on-premises offerings. Commercial Other The principal products and services provided by the Commercial Other segment are: Enterprise Services, including Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services; Commercial Cloud, comprising Office 365 Commercial, other Microsoft Office online offerings, Dynamics CRM Online, and Microsoft Azure. 8 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 Enterprise Services, including Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server and desktop solutions and provide training and certification to developers and information technology professionals on various Microsoft products. Office 365 Commercial is an online services offering that includes Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync, and is available across a variety of devices and platforms. Dynamics CRM Online is designed to provide customer relationship management and supply chain management for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. Revenue is largely driven by the number of information workers licensed. Microsoft Azure is a scalable operating system with computing, storage, database, and management, along with comprehensive cloud solutions, from which customers can build, deploy, and manage enterprise workloads and web applications. These services also include a platform that helps developers build and connect applications and services in the cloud. Our goal is to enable customers to devote more resources to development and use of applications that benefit their businesses, rather than managing on-premises hardware and software. Competition The Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies. Competitors to Office 365 Commercial are the same as those discussed above for Office Commercial. Microsoft Dynamics CRMs online offerings primarily compete with Salesforce.coms on-demand CRM offerings. Microsoft Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, Salesforce.com, VMware, and other open source offerings. OPERATIONS We have operations centers that support all operations in their regions, including customer contract and order processing, credit and collections, information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The regional center in Ireland supports the European, Middle Eastern, and African region; the center in Singapore supports the Japan, India, Greater China, and Asia-Pacific region; and the centers in Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Puerto Rico, Redmond, Washington, and Reno, Nevada support Latin America and North America. In addition to the operations centers, we also operate data centers throughout the Americas, Europe, and Asia regions. To serve the needs of customers around the world and to improve the quality and usability of products in international markets, we localize many of our products to reflect local languages and conventions. Localizing a product may require modifying the user interface, altering dialog boxes, and translating text. Our Xbox consoles and games, Surface devices, and Microsoft PC accessories are manufactured by third party contract manufacturers. We generally have the ability to use other manufacturers if the current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. With the acquisition of NDS, we now operate manufacturing facilities for the production and customization of phones in Brazil, China, Hungary, Mexico, and Vietnam. All our devices may include key components that are available from only one or limited sources. Disruption of component supply from these suppliers could potentially lead to a disruption of production of certain devices. 9 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT During fiscal years 2014, 2013, and 2012, research and development expense was $11.4 billion, $10.4 billion, and $9.8 billion, respectively. These amounts represented 13% of revenue in each of those years. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of research and development efforts. Product and Service Development and Intellectual Property We develop most of our products and services internally through four primary engineering groups. Applications and Services Engineering Group , focuses on broad applications and services core technologies in productivity, communication, search, and other information categories. Cloud and Enterprise Engineering Group , focuses on development of Microsofts back-end technologies like datacenter, database, and our specific technologies for enterprise IT scenarios and development tools. This group also engineers datacenter development, construction, and operation. Devices Engineering Group , focuses on all hardware development and supply chain, including Xbox consoles, Surface devices, Lumia Smartphones, other non-Lumia phones, Perceptive Pixel products, and accessories. Operating Systems Engineering Group , focuses on Microsofts operating systems for consoles, mobile devices, PCs, and back-end systems. Studios and Universal Store, the core cloud services for marketplaces, membership, and commerce platform, are also in this group. Internal development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software design. Before releasing new software platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create product documentation internally. We protect our intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the U.S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over 55,000 U.S. and international patents issued and over 40,000 pending. While we employ much of our internally developed intellectual property exclusively in Microsoft products and services, we also engage in outbound and inbound licensing of specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees or Microsofts products. From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We also purchase or license technology that we incorporate into our products or services. At times, we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing interoperability, or attracting and enabling our external development community. In conjunction with the NDS acquisition, we received an initial 10-year non-exclusive license to certain Nokia patents. We also agreed to license Nokias mapping services and granted Nokia reciprocal rights to use our patents for their mapping and location services. While it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and business methods, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the development of our products. Investing in the Future Microsofts success is based on our ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and 10 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 breakthroughs that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the company. We maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning communication and collaboration, information access and organization, entertainment, business and e-commerce, advertising, and devices. While our main research and development facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts of the U.S. and around the world, including Canada, China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, India, Ireland, Israel, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, and the United Kingdom. This global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent from across the world. We generally fund research at the corporate level to ensure that we are looking beyond immediate product considerations to opportunities further in the future. We also fund research and development activities at the business segment level. Much of our business segment level research and development is coordinated with other segments and leveraged across the company. In addition to our main research and development operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the worlds largest computer science research organizations, and works in close collaboration with top universities around the world to advance the state-of-the-art in computer science, providing us a unique perspective on future technology trends and contributing to our product and service innovation. Based on our assessment of key technology trends and our broad focus on long-term research and development, we see significant opportunities to drive future growth in productivity, platforms, cloud computing, search, communications, and smart connected devices. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING We market and distribute our products and services primarily through the following channels: OEMs; distributors and resellers; online; and Microsoft retail stores. OEMs We distribute software through OEMs that pre-install our software on new PCs, tablets, servers, smartphones, and other intelligent devices that they sell to end customers. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows operating system pre-installed on computing devices. OEMs also sell hardware pre-installed with other Microsoft products, including server and embedded operating systems and applications such as our Microsoft Office suite. In addition to these products, we also market our services through OEMs and service bundles such as Windows with Bing or Windows with Office 365 subscription. There are two broad categories of OEMs. The largest OEMs, many of which operate globally, are referred to as Direct OEMs, as our relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our products with virtually all of the multinational OEMs, including Acer, ASUS, Dell, Fujitsu, HTC, Hewlett-Packard, LG, Lenovo, Samsung, Sony, Toshiba, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad category of OEMs consists of lower-volume PC manufacturers (also called system builders), which source their Microsoft software for pre-installation and local redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. Distributors and Resellers Many organizations that license our products and services through enterprise agreements transact directly with us, with sales support from solution integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and developers that advise organizations on licensing our products and services (Enterprise Agreement Direct Advisors, or EDAs). Organizations also license our products and services indirectly, primarily through license solutions partners (LSPs), distributors, value-added resellers (VARs), OEMs, system builder channels, and retailers. Although each type of 11 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 reselling partner reaches organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small-sized and medium-sized organizations. EDAs typically are also authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other licensing programs, such as the Select Plus and Open licensing programs discussed under Licensing Options below. Some of our distributors include Ingram Micro and Tech Data, and some of our largest resellers include CDW, Dell, Insight Enterprises, and Software House International. Our Microsoft Dynamics software offerings are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. We distribute our retail packaged products primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products primarily through retail outlets, such as Wal-Mart, Dixons, and Microsoft retail stores. We distribute our hardware products, including Surface, Xbox, phones, and PC accessories, through third-party retailers and Microsoft retail stores. Our phones are also distributed through global wireless communications carriers. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support personnel that solicits orders from distributors and resellers, and provides product training and sales support. Online Although on-premises software will continue to be an important part of our business, increasingly we are delivering additional value to customers through cloud-based services. We provide online content and services to consumers through Bing, MSN portals and channels, Office 365, Windows Phone Store, Xbox Live, Outlook.com, Skype, and Windows Store. We also provide commercial cloud-based services such as Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Microsoft Azure, and Office 365 consisting of online versions of Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and Yammer. Other services delivered online include our online advertising platform with offerings for advertisers and publishers, as well as Microsoft Developer Network subscription content and updates, periodic product updates, and online technical and practice readiness resources to support our partners in developing and selling our products and solutions. As we increasingly deliver online services, we sell many of these cloud-based services through our enterprise agreements and have also enabled new sales programs to reach small and medium-sized businesses. These new programs include direct sales, direct sales supported by a large network of partner advisors, and resell of services through operator channels, such as telephone, cell, and cable providers. We also sell our products through our Microsoft retail stores and online marketplaces. LICENSING OPTIONS We license software to organizations under agreements that allow the customer to acquire multiple licenses of products and services. Our agreements for organizations to acquire multiple licenses of products and services are designed to provide them with a means of doing so without having to acquire separate licenses through retail channels. In delivering organizational licensing agreements to the market, we use different programs designed to provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below. Customer Licensing Programs Open Licensing Designed primarily for small-to-medium organizations, Open Programs allows customers to acquire perpetual or subscription licenses and, at the customers election, rights to future versions of software products over a specified time period (two or three years depending on the Open Programs used). The offering that conveys rights to future versions of certain software products over the contract period is called software assurance. Software assurance also provides support, tools, and training to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. Open Programs has several variations to fit customers diverse way of purchasing. Under the Open Program, customers can acquire licenses only or licenses with software assurance. They can also renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. Office 365 is also available for purchase through the Open Program. 12 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 Select Plus Licensing Designed primarily for medium-to-large organizations, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire perpetual licenses and, at the customers election, software assurance over a specified time period (generally three years or less). Similar to Open Programs, the Select Plus Program allows customers to acquire licenses only, acquire licenses with software assurance, or renew software assurance upon the expiration of existing volume licensing agreements. A subset of online services are also available for purchase through the Select Plus Program, and subscriptions are generally structured with terms between one and three years. Enterprise Agreement Licensing Designed primarily for medium- and large-sized organizations that want to acquire licenses to Online Services and/or software products, along with software assurance, for all or substantial parts of their enterprise. Enterprises can elect to acquire perpetual licenses or, under the Enterprise Subscription Program, can acquire non-perpetual, subscription agreements for a specified time period (generally three years). Online Services are also available for purchase through the enterprise agreement and subscriptions are generally structured with three year terms. Customer Licensing Programs Online Services Only Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement is designed to enable small and medium-sized businesses to easily purchase Microsoft Online Services (excluding Azure). The program allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based services. Microsoft Azure Agreement is designed to enable small and medium-sized businesses to purchase Microsoft Azure Subscription plans on a pay-as-you-go basis. Partner Programs The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement is a program targeted at service providers and Independent Software Vendors allowing these partners to provide software services and hosted applications to their end customers. Agreements are generally structured with a three-year term, and partners are billed monthly based upon consumption. Microsoft Online Services Reseller Agreement is a program enabling partners to package Microsoft Online Services with the partners services. Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program is a program that enables partners to use Microsoft software in their own software programs. CUSTOMERS Our customers include individual consumers, small- and medium-sized organizations, enterprises, governmental institutions, educational institutions, Internet service providers, application developers, and OEMs. Consumers and small and medium-sized organizations obtain our products primarily through distributors, resellers, and OEMs. No sales to an individual customer accounted for more than 10% of fiscal year 2014, 2013, or 2012 revenue. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant. 13 Table of Contents PART I Item 1 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT Our executive officers as of July 25, 2014 were as follows: Name Age Position with the Company Satya Nadella 46 Chief Executive Officer Lisa E. Brummel 54 Executive Vice President, Human Resources Christopher C. Capossela 44 Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer Amy E. Hood 42 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Bradford L. Smith 55 Executive Vice President, General Counsel; Secretary B. Kevin Turner 49 Chief Operating Officer Mr. Nadella was appointed Chief Executive Officer in February 2014. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise since July 2013. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Nadellas roles have also included Vice President of Microsoft Business Division. Ms. Brummel was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources in July 2013, after serving as Chief People Officer since 2011 and Senior Vice President, Human Resources beginning in 2005. Prior to that she had been Corporate Vice President, Human Resources since May 2005. From 2000 to 2005, she had been Corporate Vice President of the Home and Retail Division. Since joining Microsoft in 1989, Ms. Brummel has held a number of management positions at Microsoft, including General Manager of Consumer Productivity Business, Product Unit Manager of the Kids Business, and Product Unit Manager of Desktop and Decision Reference Products. Mr. Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer in March 2014. Prior to that he served as the worldwide leader of the Consumer Channels Group, responsible for sales and marketing activities with OEMs, operators, and retail partners. In his more than 20 years at Microsoft, Mr. Capossela has held a variety of marketing leadership roles in the Microsoft Office Division. He was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including Microsoft Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, Project, and Visio. Ms. Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in July 2013, subsequent to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer in May 2013. Beginning in 2010, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the Microsoft Business Division. From 2006 through 2009, Ms. Hood was General Manager, Microsoft Business Division Strategy. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also held finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the corporate finance organization. Mr. Smith was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary in 2011. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Secretary since November 2001. Mr. Smith was also named Chief Compliance Officer in 2002. He had been Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith joined Microsoft in 1993. Mr. Turner was appointed Chief Operating Officer in September 2005. Before joining Microsoft, he was Executive Vice President of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Sams Club division. From 2001 to 2002, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer of Wal-Marts Information Systems Division. From 2000 to 2001, he served as its Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Information Systems Division. Mr. Turner also serves on the Board of Directors of Nordstrom, Inc. 14 Table of Contents PART I Item 1, 1A EMPLOYEES As of June 30, 2014, we employed approximately 128,000 people on a full-time basis, 62,000 in the U.S. and 66,000 internationally, including approximately 25,000 employees transferred as part of the NDS acquisition in April 2014. Of the total employed people, 44,000 were in product research and development, 30,000 in sales and marketing, 23,000 in product support and consulting services, 20,000 in manufacturing and distribution, and 11,000 in general and administration. In July 2014, we announced a restructuring plan which will eliminate up to 18,000 positions in fiscal year 2015, including 12,500 professional and factory positions related to the acquisition of NDS. As a result of the NDS acquisition, we have certain employees that are subject to collective bargaining agreements. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.microsoft.com. At our Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us, including: our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); information on our business strategies, financial results, and key performance indicators; announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives of these events are also available; press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news; corporate governance information including our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate citizenship initiatives, and other governance-related policies; other news and announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find useful or interesting; and opportunities to sign up for email alerts and RSS feeds to have information pushed in real time. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition to these channels, we use social media to communicate to the public. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested in Microsoft to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our Investor Relations website. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. We face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. Competition in the technology sector Our competitors range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers to entry in our businesses are low and software products can 15 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. Many of the areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. Competition among platforms, ecosystems, and devices An important element of our business model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. The strategic importance of developing and maintaining a vibrant ecosystem increased with the launch of the Windows 8 operating system, Surface, Windows Phone, Xbox One, and associated cloud-based services. We face significant competition from firms that provide competing platforms, applications, and services. A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, and digital music players. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform. We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and services; however, our competitors in smartphones and tablets have established significantly larger user bases. Competing with the vertically integrated model will increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating margins. We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on personal computers. We face significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by personal computers. Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our platforms. Competing operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease PC operating system margins. In addition, Surface competes with products made by our OEM partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. The success of the Windows phone platform is an important element of our goal to enhance personal productivity in a mobile-first and cloud-first world. The marketplace among mobile phone platforms is highly competitive. We may face issues in selecting, engaging or securing support from operators and retailers for Windows phones due to, for instance, inadequate sales training or incentives, or insufficient marketing support for the Windows Phone platform. Competing platforms have application marketplaces (sometimes referred to as stores) with scale and significant installed bases on mobile devices. The variety and utility of applications available on a platform is important to device purchasing decisions. Users incur costs to move data and buy new applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must successfully enlist developers to write applications for our marketplace and ensure that these applications have high quality, customer appeal, and value. Efforts to compete with these application marketplaces may increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. Business model competition Companies compete with us based on a growing variety of business models. Even as we transition to a mobile-first and cloud-first strategy, the license-based proprietary software model generates most of our software revenue. We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model. 16 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services and content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. Some companies compete with us using an open source business model by modifying and then distributing open source software at nominal cost to end-users and earning revenue on advertising or complementary services and products. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the software. Some open source software vendors develop software that mimics the features and functionality of our products. The competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives. This may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. Our increasing focus on services presents execution and competitive risks. A growing part of our business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. In July 2014, our leadership announced its strategic vision to compete and grow as a productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. At the same time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. We are embracing cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. Besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas, including: continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, and television-related devices, including gaming consoles; continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to third-party developers; ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data; and making our suite of cloud-based services platform agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems, including those of our competitors. It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue required to succeed. If we are not effective in executing organizational changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not grow revenues in line with the infrastructure and development investments described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income. We make significant investments in new products and services that may not be profitable. We will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system, the Microsoft Office system, Bing, Windows Phone, Windows Server, the Windows Store, the Microsoft Azure Services platform, Office 365, other cloud-based services offerings, and the Xbox entertainment platform. We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication and entertainment including PCs, tablets, phones, and gaming devices. Investments in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and 17 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. New products and services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced historically. Developing new technologies is complex and time-consuming. It can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. We expect to continue making acquisitions or entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy, that we get no satisfactory return on our investment, that we have difficulty integrating new employees, business systems, and technology, or that the transaction distracts management from our other businesses. The success of these transactions will depend in part on our ability to leverage them enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new ones. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions, such as increased revenue, enhanced efficiencies, or increased market share, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. These events could adversely affect our operating results or financial condition. In April 2014, we acquired from Nokia substantially all of its NDS business to accelerate our growth in phones and support the entire Windows ecosystem. We may not realize all of the anticipated financial and other benefits from this transaction including operating efficiencies and cost savings. We may not be successful in developing a vibrant and competitive ecosystem for Windows-based phones that combines differentiated hardware, software, services, and third-party applications. We may not achieve mobile phone market share targets. We may see lower than expected growth rates for the phone markets. The mix of premium and lower-cost devices we sell may put downward pressure on prices or margins. We may not be effective in executing the restructuring we announced in July 2014 or otherwise integrating the NDS business with Microsofts ongoing operations, including matching manufacturing capacity to demand. Existing Microsoft smart device original equipment manufacturers may respond negatively to the changes in our business or the new competitive environment. If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. We review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we participate. We may be required to record a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. For example, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we recorded a $6.2 billion charge for the impairment of goodwill in our previous Online Services Division business (Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure). The valuation of acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, resulting from the acquisition of NDS, is reflective of the enterprise value based on the long-term financial forecast for the business. In this highly competitive and volatile market, we may not realize our forecasts. As a result, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements due to an impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Protecting our global intellectual property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual property is difficult. While piracy adversely affects U.S. revenue, the impact on revenue from outside the U.S. is more significant, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Our revenue in these markets may grow slower than the underlying device market. Similarly, the absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent rights. Throughout the world, we educate consumers about the 18 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A benefits of licensing genuine products and obtaining indemnification benefits for intellectual property risks, and we educate lawmakers about the advantages of a business climate where intellectual property rights are protected. Reductions in the legal protection for software intellectual property rights could adversely affect revenue. Third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. From time to time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of these claims may grow because of constant technological change in the markets in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, and our offering of first-party devices, such as Surface and Lumia phones. To resolve these claims we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers. These outcomes may cause operating margins to decline. Besides money damages, in some jurisdictions plaintiffs can seek injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling our products or services that have infringing technologies. In some countries, such as Germany, an injunction can be issued before the parties have fully litigated the validity of the underlying patents. We have paid significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. We may not be able to protect our source code from copying if there is an unauthorized disclosure of source code. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to our business. Although we license portions of our application and operating system source code to several licensees, we take significant measures to protect the secrecy of large portions of our source code. If a significant portion of our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that source code. It may become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating margins. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks described in the next paragraph. Cyber-attacks and security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability claims, or harm to our competitive position. Security of Microsofts information technology Threats to information technology (IT) security can take a variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers, and sophisticated organizations including state-sponsored organizations, may take steps that pose threats to our customers and our IT. They may develop and deploy malicious software to attack our products and services and gain access to our networks and datacenters, or act in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other coordinated attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, thereby increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. Cyber threats can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. Breaches of our network or data security could disrupt the security of our internal systems and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, require us to allocate more resources to improved technologies, or otherwise adversely affect our business. In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve. Often we are early adopters of new devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with the speed of these changes as new threats emerge. Security of our product, services, devices and customers data Security threats are a particular challenge to companies like us whose business is technology products and services. Threats to our own IT infrastructure can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely on the security of our infrastructure to ensure the reliability of our services and the protection of their data. Hackers 19 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A tend to focus their efforts on the most popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and we expect that to continue. The security of our products and services is important in our customers purchasing decisions. To defend against security threats, both to our internal IT systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security and reliability features, improve the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network, products and services, and provide customers security tools such as firewalls and anti-virus software. The cost of these steps could reduce our operating margins. If we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products or services. Customers may fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail timely to install security patches. Any of these actions by customers could adversely affect our revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. Legislative or regulatory action in these areas may increase the costs to develop, implement or secure our products and services. Disclosure of personal data could cause liability and harm our reputation. As we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store and process increasingly large amounts of personally identifiable information of our customers. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our training of employees and vendors on data security, and other practices we follow may not prevent the improper disclosure of customer data we or our vendors store and manage. Improper disclosure could harm our reputation, lead to legal exposure to customers, or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our software products and services also enable our customers to store and process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment we host. Like all providers of communications services, government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer data in response to valid legal orders. In the U.S. and elsewhere, we advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations on government authority to compel disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect customer data, perceptions that the privacy of personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our products or services, and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures we may take to address customer concerns, or constraints on our flexibility to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating expenses. We may have outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth in services and the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase or lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth of existing services such as Bing, Exchange Online, Office 365, SharePoint Online, OneDrive, Skype, Xbox Live, Microsoft Azure, Outlook.com, Microsoft Office Web Apps, Windows Stores and Microsoft Account services. We are rapidly growing our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third-parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing and expanding this infrastructure is expensive and complex. Inefficiencies or operational failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and other third parties, damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may harm our operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. As a leading global software and device maker, we are closely scrutinized by government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities and this includes increased scrutiny in potentially large markets such as China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. U.S. federal and state antitrust authorities have previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business. The European Commission closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other companies. In 2004, the Commission ordered us to create new versions of Windows that do not include certain multimedia technologies and to provide our competitors with specifications for how to implement certain proprietary Windows communications protocols in their own products. In 2009, the Commission accepted a set of commitments offered by Microsoft to address the Commissions concerns relating to competition in web browsing software, including an undertaking to address Commission concerns relating to interoperability. These obligations may limit our ability to innovate in Windows or other products in the future, diminish the developer appeal of the Windows platform, and increase our product development costs. The availability of licenses related to protocols and file formats may enable competitors to develop software products that better mimic the functionality of our products, which could hamper sales of our products. Our portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM partners offer a large variety of devices on our platforms. As a result, increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating a risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. Regulatory scrutiny in this area may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly in China and other countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. Because these jurisdictions only recently implemented competition laws, their enforcement activities are unpredictable. Government regulatory actions and court decisions such as these may hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that come from them. New competition law actions could be initiated. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including: We may have to choose between withdrawing products from certain geographies to avoid fines or designing and developing alternative versions of those products to comply with government rulings, which may entail a delay in a product release and removing functionality that customers want or on which developers rely. We may be required to make available licenses to our proprietary technologies on terms that do not reflect their fair market value or do not protect our associated intellectual property. The rulings described above may be precedent in other competition law proceedings. We are subject to a variety of ongoing commitments because of court or administrative orders, consent decrees or other voluntary actions we have taken. If we fail to comply with these commitments we may incur litigation costs and be subject to substantial fines or other remedial actions. Our international operations subject us to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities outside the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we devote substantial resources to our global compliance programs and have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. We may be subject to legal liability and reputational damage if we sell goods or services in violation of U.S. trade sanctions on countries such as Iran, North Korea, Cuba, Sudan, and Syria. 21 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A Other regulatory areas that may apply to our products and online services offerings include user privacy, telecommunications, data protection, and online content. For example, regulators may take the position that our offerings such as Skype are covered by laws regulating telecommunications services. Applying these laws and regulations to our business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may conflict from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Additionally, these laws and governments approach to their enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to evolve. Some governments are expressing increasing concern about government surveillance practices around the world and this may lead to increased regulation requiring local hosting obligations or the use of domestic hosting providers. Compliance with these types of regulation may involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices that result in reduced revenue. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders we stop the alleged noncompliant activity. Our business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. We are limited in our ability to recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, including key employees of the NDS business acquired in April 2014, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and managements view of these matters may change in the future. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We regularly are under audit by tax authorities. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenues in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. We earn a significant amount of our operating income from outside the U.S., and any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions to the U.S. may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. In addition, there have been proposals from Congress to change U.S. tax laws that would significantly impact how U.S. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense and cash flows. Our hardware and software products may experience quality or supply problems. Our vertically-integrated hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface devices, Lumia Smartphones, and other devices we design and market are highly complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm if we fail to detect or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. We get some device components from sole suppliers. Our competitors use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity available to us. If a component from a sole-source supplier is delayed or becomes unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint or industry shortages, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales. Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. Xbox consoles and Surface devices and Lumia phones are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating margins. These same risks would apply to any other vertically-integrated hardware and software products we may offer. 22 Table of Contents PART I Item 1A Our software products also may experience quality or reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software products we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. Our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. We operate in over 100 countries and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Emerging markets are a significant focus of our international growth strategy. The developing nature of these markets presents several risks, including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations. Although we hedge a portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may adversely affect our revenue. Competitive or regulatory pressure to make our pricing structure uniform might require that we reduce the sales price of our software in the U.S. and other countries. Catastrophic events or geo-political conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyber-attack, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are near major earthquake faults. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or IT systems could harm our ability to conduct normal business operations. Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our business continuity management plans, and magnifies the potential impact of prolonged service outages on our operating results. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict pose a risk of general economic disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for technology investment decisions by our customers, and may cause supply chain disruptions for hardware manufacturers, either of which may adversely affect our revenue. The long-term effects of climate change on the global economy or the IT industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in weather where we operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based services. Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely affect our revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be adversely affected. Substantial revenue comes from our U.S. government contracts. An extended federal government shutdown resulting from failing to pass budget appropriations, adopt continuing funding resolutions or raise the debt ceiling, and other budgetary decisions limiting or delaying federal government spending, could reduce government IT spending on our products and services and adversely affect our revenues. Our product distribution system also relies on an extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events that affect global financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.S. government securities. If global credit and equity markets decline for long periods, or if there is a downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating due to an actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. 23 Table of Contents PART I Item 1B, 2, 3, 4 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the SEC that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2014 that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate offices consist of approximately 15 million square feet of office space located in King County, Washington: 10 million square feet of owned space situated on approximately 500 acres of land we own at our corporate campus in Redmond, Washington and approximately five million square feet of space we lease. We own approximately three million additional square feet of office and data center space domestically (outside of the Puget Sound corporate campus) and lease many sites domestically totaling approximately five million square feet of office and data center space. We occupy many sites internationally, totaling approximately five million square feet that is owned and approximately twelve million square feet that is leased. International facilities that we own include: our development center in Hyderabad, India; our European operations center in Dublin, Ireland; a research and development campus in Beijing, China; and our facilities in Salo, Finland and Reading, UK. The largest leased office spaces include the following locations: Beijing and Shanghai, China; Tokyo, Japan; Unterschleissheim, Germany; Paris, France; Dublin, Ireland; Espoo, Tampere, and Oulu, Finland, Bangalore, India; Reading, UK; Vedbaek, Denmark; and Mississauga, Canada. In addition to the above locations, we have a disk duplication and digital distribution facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico, a facility in Singapore for our Asia Pacific operations center and regional headquarters, and various product development facilities, both domestically and internationally, as described in the Research and Development section of Item 1 of this Form 10-K. Our facilities are fully used for current operations of all segments, and suitable additional spaces are available to accommodate expansion needs. We have a development agreement with the City of Redmond under which we may currently develop approximately 1.6 million square feet of additional facilities at our corporate campus in Redmond, Washington. We operate manufacturing facilities in Brazil, China, Hungary, Mexico, and Vietnam for the production of phones. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS See Note 17 Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents PART II Item 5, 6 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. On July 22, 2014, there were 113,923 registered holders of record of our common stock. The high and low common stock sales prices per share were as follows: Quarter Ended September 30 December 31 March 31 June 30 Fiscal Year Fiscal Year 2014 High $ 36.43 $ 38.98 $ 41.50 $ 42.29 $ 42.29 Low $ 30.84 $ 32.80 $ 34.63 $ 38.51 $ 30.84 Fiscal Year 2013 High $ 31.61 $ 30.25 $ 28.66 $ 35.78 $ 35.78 Low $ 28.54 $ 26.26 $ 26.28 $ 28.11 $ 26.26 DIVIDENDS AND SHARE REPURCHASES See Note 18 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for information regarding dividends and share repurchases by quarter. Following are our monthly stock repurchases for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014, all of which were made as part of publicly announced plans or programs: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased under the Plans or Programs (in millions) April 1, 2014 April 30, 2014 756,720 $ 41.37 756,720 $ 36,177 May 1, 2014 May 31, 2014 27,395,976 $ 39.63 27,395,976 $ 35,092 June 1, 2014 June 30, 2014 0 $ 0.00 0 $ 35,092 28,152,696 28,152,696 The repurchases were made using cash resources and occurred in the open market. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (In millions, except per share data) Year Ended June 30, 2014 (a) 2013 2012 2011 2010 Revenue $ 86,833 $ 77,849 $ 73,723 $ 69,943 $ 62,484 Operating income $ 27,759 $ 26,764 (c) $ 21,763 (d) $ 27,161 $ 24,098 Net income $ 22,074 (b) $ 21,863 (c) $ 16,978 (d) $ 23,150 $ 18,760 Diluted earnings per share $ 2.63 (b) $ 2.58 (c) $ 2.00 (d) $ 2.69 $ 2.10 Cash dividends declared per share $ 1.12 $ 0.92 $ 0.80 $ 0.64 $ 0.52 Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments $ 85,709 $ 77,022 $ 63,040 $ 52,772 $ 36,788 Total assets $ 172,384 $ 142,431 $ 121,271 $ 108,704 $ 86,113 Long-term obligations $ 36,975 $ 26,070 $ 22,220 $ 22,847 $ 13,791 Stockholders equity $ 89,784 $ 78,944 $ 66,363 $ 57,083 $ 46,175 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 6, 7 (a) On April 25, 2014, we acquired substantially all of Nokias Devices and Services business (NDS). NDS has been included in our consolidated results of operations starting on the acquisition date. (b) Includes a tax provision adjustment recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 related to adjustments to prior years liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing which decreased net income by $458 million and diluted earnings per share by $0.05. (c) Includes a charge related to a fine imposed by the European Commission in March 2013 which decreased operating income and net income by $733 million (561 million) and diluted earnings per share by $0.09. Also includes a charge for Surface RT inventory adjustments recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, which decreased operating income by $900 million, net income by $596 million, and diluted earnings per share by $0.07. (d) Includes a goodwill impairment charge related to our previous Online Services Division business segment (related to Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure) which decreased operating income and net income by $6.2 billion and diluted earnings per share by $0.73. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements. OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology leader focused on being the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. We strive to reinvent productivity to empower people and organizations to do more and achieve more. We create technology that transforms the way people work, play, and communicate across a wide range of computing devices. We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products, by offering an array of services, including cloud-based services to consumers and businesses, by designing, manufacturing, and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services, datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services, and income taxes. Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Key Opportunities and Investments We see significant opportunities for growth by investing research and development resources in the following areas: Digital work and life experiences Our cloud operating system Our devices operating system and hardware 26 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 With investments in these areas, we work to fulfill the evolving needs of our customers in a mobile-first and cloud-first world. We view mobility broadly not just by devices, but by experiences. Today, people move just as quickly into new contexts as to new locations. Mobility goes beyond devices users carry with them as they move from place to place, to encompass the rich collection of data, applications, and services that accompany them as they move from setting to setting in their lives. Many of our customers are dual users, employing technology for work or school and also deeply in their personal lives. Digital work and life experiences We believe we can significantly enhance the digital lives of our customers using our broad portfolio of communication, productivity, and information services. We work to deliver digital work and life experiences that are reinvented for the mobile-first and cloud-first world. Productivity will be the first and foremost objective, to enable people to meet and collaborate more easily, and to effectively express ideas in new ways. We will design applications as dual use with the intelligence to partition data between work and life while respecting each persons privacy choices. The foundation for these efforts will rest on advancing our leading productivity, collaboration, and business process tools including Skype, OneDrive, OneNote, Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint, Bing, and Dynamics. We see opportunity in combining these services in new ways that are more contextual and personal, while ensuring people, rather than their devices, remain at the center of the digital experience. We will offer our services across ecosystems and devices outside our own. As people move from device to device, so will their content and the richness of their services. We will engineer applications so users can find, try, and buy them in friction-free ways. Cloud operating system Today, businesses face important opportunities and challenges. Enterprises are asked to deploy technology that advances business strategy. They decide what solutions will make employees more productive, collaborative, and satisfied, or connect with customers in new and compelling ways. They work to unlock business insights from a world of data. They rely on our technology to manage employee corporate identity, and to manage and secure corporate information accessed and stored across a growing number of devices. To achieve these objectives increasingly businesses look to leverage the benefits of the cloud. Helping businesses move to the cloud is one of our largest opportunities, and we believe we work from a position of strength. The shift to the cloud is driven by three important economies of scale: larger datacenters can deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; larger datacenters can coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application demand patterns improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy lowers application maintenance labor costs for large public clouds. The cloud creates the opportunity for businesses to focus on innovation while leaving non-differentiating activities to reliable and cost-effective providers. With Azure, we are one of very few cloud vendors that run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. We believe the combination of Azure and Windows Server makes us the only company with a public, private, and hybrid cloud platform that can power modern business. We are working to enhance the return on IT investment by enabling enterprises to combine their existing datacenters and our public cloud into a single cohesive infrastructure. Businesses can deploy applications in their own datacenter, a partners datacenter, or in our datacenters with common security, management, and administration across all environments, with the flexibility and scale they desire. Our cloud will also enable richer employee experiences. We enable organizations to securely adopt software-as-a-service applications (both our own and third-party) and integrate them with their existing security and management infrastructure. We will continue to innovate with higher level services including identity and directory services, rich data storage and analytics services, machine learning services, media services, web, and mobile backend services, and developer productivity services. To foster a rich developer ecosystem, our digital work 27 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 and life experiences will also be extensible, enabling customers and partners to further customize and enhance our solutions, achieving even more value. Our strategy requires continuing investment in datacenters and other infrastructure to support our devices and services, and will bring continued competition with Google, Amazon, and other well-established and emerging competitors. Device operating system and hardware With our Windows device operating system and first-party hardware, we strive to set the standard for productivity experiences. We aim to deliver the richest and most consistent user experience for digital work and life scenarios on screens of all sizes from phones, tablets, and laptops to TVs and large, multi-touch displays. We are investing to make Windows the most secure, manageable, and capable operating system for the needs of a modern workforce. We are working to create a broad developer opportunity by enabling universal Windows applications to run across all device targets. We are developing new input/output methods like speech, pen, and gesture to power more personal computing experiences. We work with an ecosystem of partners to deliver a broad spectrum of Windows devices. We also build first-party hardware to set the standard for productivity experiences and stimulate more demand for the entire Windows ecosystem, as we do with Surface, and with the acquisition of substantially all Nokia Corporations (Nokia) Devices and Services business (NDS) on April 25, 2014, phones. As consumer services and hardware advance, we expect they will continue to better complement one another, connecting the devices people use daily to unique communications, productivity, and entertainment services from Microsoft and our partners and developers. We anticipate many new mobile device categories and we anticipate experiences to emerge that span a variety of devices of all screen sizes. We will invest to be on the forefront of this innovation focusing on dual users and their needs across work and life. With the acquisition of NDS, we expect our effective tax rate to increase as our business mix changes. Our future opportunity There are several distinct areas of technology that we aim to drive forward. Our goal is to lead the industry in these areas over the long term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing significant resources in: Delivering new high-value digital work and digital life experiences to improve how people learn, work, play, and interact with one another. Establishing our Windows platform across the PC, tablet, phone, server, other devices, and the cloud to drive a thriving ecosystem of developers, unify the cross-device user experience, and increase agility when bringing new advances to market. Building and running cloud-based services in ways that unleash new experiences and opportunities for businesses and individuals. Developing new devices that have increasingly natural ways to use them, including touch, gesture, and speech. Applying machine learning to make technology more intuitive and able to act on our behalf, instead of at our command. We believe the breadth of our products and services portfolio, our large, global partner and customer base, our growing ecosystem, and our ongoing investment in innovation position us to be a leader in these areas. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services is dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud and in some cases the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. To support our strategy of 28 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 reinventing productivity to empower every person and every organization to do more and achieve more, we announced a restructuring plan in July 2014. Through this restructuring, we strive to increase agility, streamline engineering processes, move faster and more efficiently, and simplify our organization. Even if we achieve these goals, the investments we are making in devices and infrastructure will increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. We prioritize our investments among the highest long-term growth opportunities. These investments require significant resources and are multi-year in nature. The products and services we bring to market may be developed internally, as part of a partnership or alliance, or through acquisition. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. See a discussion of these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K). Unearned Revenue Quarterly and annual revenue may be impacted by the deferral of revenue. See the discussions below regarding: revenue deferred on certain devices bundled with other products and services (Bundled Offerings); and revenue deferred on sales of Windows 7 with an option to upgrade to Windows 8 Pro at a discounted price (the Windows Upgrade Offer). If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Reportable Segments The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Segment information appearing in Note 21 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) is also presented on this basis. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and other. Operating expenses are not allocated to our segments. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2014, we changed our organizational structure as part of our transformation to a devices and services company. As a result, information that our chief operating decision maker regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance changed. Therefore, we have recast certain prior period amounts to conform to the way we internally managed and monitored segment performance during fiscal year 2014. Our reportable segments are described below. On April 25, 2014, we acquired substantially all of NDS for total consideration of $9.5 billion. This amount was greater than the $7.2 billion disclosed previously, primarily due to $1.5 billion of cash acquired, foreign currency movements of $330 million, working capital adjustments of $210 million, and other adjustments of $260 million. See Note 9 Business Combinations of the Notes to Financial Statements for additional details. NDS has been included in our consolidated results of operations starting on the acquisition date. We report the financial performance of the acquired business in our new Phone Hardware segment. Prior to the acquisition of NDS, financial results associated with our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia were reflected in our D&C Licensing segment. The contractual relationship with Nokia related to those initiatives terminated in conjunction with the acquisition. With the creation of the new Phone Hardware segment, the D&C Hardware segment was renamed Computing and Gaming Hardware in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Devices and Consumer (D&C) Our D&C segments develop, manufacture, market, and support products and services designed to entertain and connect people, increase personal productivity, help people simplify tasks and make more informed decisions online, and help advertisers connect with audiences. Our D&C segments are: D&C Licensing , comprising: Windows, including all OEM licensing (Windows OEM) and other non-volume licensing and academic volume licensing of the Windows operating system and related software; non-volume licensing of Microsoft Office, comprising the core Office product set, for consumers (Office Consumer); Windows Phone operating system, including related patent licensing; and certain other patent licensing revenue; Computing and Gaming Hardware , comprising: Xbox gaming and entertainment consoles and accessories, second-party and third-party video game royalties, and Xbox Live subscriptions (Xbox Platform); Surface devices and accessories; and Microsoft PC accessories; Phone Hardware, comprising: Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones, beginning with our acquisition of NDS; and D&C Other , comprising: Resale, including Windows Store, Xbox Live transactions, and Windows Phone Store; search advertising; display advertising; Office 365 Consumer, comprising Office 365 Home and Office 365 Personal; Studios, comprising first-party video games; our retail stores; and certain other consumer products and services not included in the categories above. Commercial Our Commercial segments develop, market, and support software and services designed to increase individual, team, and organizational productivity and efficiency, including simplifying everyday tasks through seamless operations across the users hardware and software. Our Commercial segments are: Commercial Licensing , comprising: server products, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs); Windows Embedded; volume licensing of the Windows operating system, excluding academic (Windows Commercial); Microsoft Office for business, including Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Lync, and related CALs (Office Commercial); Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, excluding Dynamics CRM Online; and Skype; and Commercial Other , comprising: Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services; Commercial Cloud, comprising Office 365 Commercial, other Microsoft Office online offerings, Dynamics CRM Online, and Microsoft Azure; and certain other commercial products and online services not included in the categories above. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 Revenue $ 86,833 $ 77,849 $ 73,723 12% 6% Gross margin $ 59,899 $ 57,600 $ 56,193 4% 3% Operating income $ 27,759 $ 26,764 $ 21,763 4% 23% Diluted earnings per share $ 2.63 $ 2.58 $ 2.00 2% 29% Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Revenue increased $9.0 billion or 12%, demonstrating growth across our consumer and commercial businesses, primarily due to higher revenue from server products, Xbox Platform, Commercial Cloud, and Surface. Revenue also increased due to the acquisition of NDS. Commercial Cloud revenue doubled, reflecting continued subscriber growth from our cloud-based offerings. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Gross margin increased $2.3 billion or 4%, primarily due to higher revenue, offset in part by a $6.7 billion or 33% increase in cost of revenue. Cost of revenue increased mainly due to higher volumes of Xbox consoles and Surface devices sold, and $575 million higher datacenter expenses, primarily in support of Commercial Cloud revenue growth. Cost of revenue also increased due to the acquisition of NDS. Operating income increased $995 million or 4%, reflecting higher gross margin, offset in part by increased research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses. Key changes in operating expenses were: Research and development expenses increased $970 million or 9%, due mainly to increased investment in new products and services in our Devices engineering group, including NDS expenses, and increased investment in our Applications and Services engineering group. Sales and marketing expenses increased $535 million or 4%, primarily due to NDS expenses and increased investment in sales resources, offset in part by lower advertising costs. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Revenue increased $4.1 billion or 6%, mainly due to growth in revenue from our Commercial segments. Revenue was also impacted by the timing of revenue deferrals. Operating income grew $5.0 billion or 23%, primarily due to the $6.2 billion goodwill impairment charge recorded during the prior year. Other key changes in cost of revenue and operating expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $2.7 billion or 16%, reflecting increased product costs associated with Surface and Windows 8, including an approximately $900 million charge for Surface RT inventory adjustments, higher headcount-related expenses, payments made to Nokia related to joint strategic initiatives, royalties on Xbox Live content, and retail stores expenses, offset in part by decreased costs associated with lower sales of Xbox 360 consoles and decreased traffic acquisition costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.4 billion or 10%, reflecting advertising of Windows 8 and Surface. Research and development expenses increased $600 million or 6%, due mainly to higher headcount-related expenses, largely related to the Xbox Platform. General and administrative expenses increased $580 million or 13%, due to higher legal charges, primarily due to the European Commission fine of 561 million (approximately $733 million) for failure to comply with our 2009 agreement to display a Browser Choice Screen on Windows PCs where Internet Explorer is the default browser (the EU fine). 31 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Devices and Consumer (In millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 Revenue Licensing $ 18,803 $ 19,021 $ 19,495 (1)% (2)% Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware 9,628 6,461 6,740 49% (4)% Phone Hardware 1,985 0 0 * * Total D&C Hardware 11,613 6,461 6,740 80% (4)% Other 7,258 6,618 6,203 10% 7% Total D&C revenue $ 37,674 $ 32,100 $ 32,438 17% (1)% Gross Margin Licensing $ 17,216 $ 17,044 $ 17,240 1% (1)% Hardware: Computing and Gaming Hardware 893 956 2,495 (7)% (62)% Phone Hardware 54 0 0 * * Total D&C Hardware 947 956 2,495 (1)% (62)% Other 1,770 2,046 1,998 (13)% 2% Total D&C gross margin $ 19,933 $ 20,046 $ 21,733 (1)% (8)% * Not meaningful Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 D&C revenue increased $5.6 billion or 17%, primarily due to higher revenue from Xbox Platform, Surface, and Windows Phone. Revenue also increased $2.0 billion due to the acquisition of NDS. D&C gross margin decreased slightly, reflecting higher cost of revenue, offset in part by higher revenue. Cost of revenue increased $5.7 billion or 47%, due mainly to Xbox Platform and Surface. Cost of revenue also increased $1.9 billion due to NDS. D&C Licensing D&C Licensing revenue decreased $218 million or 1%, due mainly to lower revenue from licenses of Windows and Office Consumer, as well as a decrease in royalty revenue, offset in part by increased Windows Phone revenue. Retail and non-OEM sales of Windows declined $304 million or 41%, due mainly to the launch of Windows 8 in the prior year. Windows OEM revenue declined $136 million or 1%, due to continued softness in the consumer PC market, offset in part by a 12% increase in OEM Pro revenue. Office Consumer revenue declined $243 million or 8%, reflecting the transition of customers to Office 365 Consumer as well as continued softness in the consumer PC market. The declines in Windows OEM and Office Consumer revenue were partially offset by benefits realized from ending our support for Windows XP in April 2014. Windows Phone revenue increased $822 million or 48%, due mainly to the recognition of $382 million revenue under our joint strategic initiatives with Nokia, which concluded in conjunction with the acquisition of NDS, as well as an increase in phone patent licensing revenue. D&C Licensing gross margin increased $172 million or 1%, primarily due to a $390 million or 20% decrease in cost of revenue. D&C Licensing cost of revenue decreased, due mainly to a $411 million or 23% decline in traffic acquisition costs. 32 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Computing and Gaming Hardware Computing and Gaming Hardware revenue increased $3.2 billion or 49%, primarily due to higher revenue from the Xbox Platform and Surface. Xbox Platform revenue increased $1.7 billion or 34%, due mainly to sales of Xbox One, which was released in November 2013, offset in part by a decrease in sales of Xbox 360. We sold 11.7 million Xbox consoles during fiscal year 2014 compared with 9.8 million Xbox consoles during fiscal year 2013. Surface revenue increased $1.3 billion or 157%, due mainly to a higher number of devices and accessories sold. Computing and Gaming Hardware gross margin decreased slightly, due to a $3.2 billion or 59% increase in cost of revenue, offset in part by higher revenue. Xbox Platform cost of revenue increased $2.1 billion or 72%, due mainly to higher volumes of consoles sold and higher costs associated with Xbox One. Surface cost of revenue increased $970 million or 51%, due mainly to a higher number of devices and accessories sold, offset in part by a charge for Surface RT inventory adjustments of approximately $900 million in fiscal year 2013. Phone Hardware Phone Hardware revenue was $2.0 billion, reflecting sales of Lumia Smartphones and other non-Lumia phones following the acquisition of NDS on April 25, 2014. Since the acquisition, we sold 5.8 million Lumia Smartphones and 30.3 million non-Lumia phones. Phone Hardware gross margin was $54 million, reflecting revenue of $2.0 billion, offset in part by $1.9 billion cost of revenue, including amortization of acquired intangible assets and the impact of decisions to rationalize our device portfolio. D&C Other D&C Other revenue increased $640 million or 10%, due mainly to higher online advertising revenue and Office 365 Consumer revenue, offset in part by a $213 million decrease in first-party video games revenue, primarily due to the release of Halo 4 in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013. Online advertising revenue increased $497 million or 14%. Search advertising revenue increased 39%, due primarily to increased revenue per search resulting from ongoing improvements in advertising products, higher search volume, and the expiration of North American revenue per search guarantee payments to Yahoo! in the prior year , offset in part by a 25% reduction in display advertising revenue. Office 365 Consumer revenue grew $316 million, primarily reflecting subscriber growth. We ended fiscal year 2014 with over five million subscribers. D&C Other gross margin decreased $276 million or 13%, due to a $916 million or 20% increase in cost of revenue, offset in part by higher revenue. D&C Other cost of revenue grew, due mainly to a $541 million or 24% increase in online advertising cost of revenue, reflecting support of online infrastructure. Cost of revenue also increased $219 million or 15%, due to higher resale transactions costs. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 D&C revenue decreased $338 million or 1%, reflecting lower revenue from D&C Licensing and Computing and Gaming Hardware, offset in part by increased revenue from D&C Other. D&C gross margin decreased $1.7 billion or 8%, primarily due to higher cost of revenue and lower revenue. Cost of revenue increased $1.3 billion or 13%, primarily due to Computing and Gaming Hardware. D&C Licensing D&C Licensing revenue decreased $474 million or 2%, due mainly to lower revenue from licenses of Consumer and Windows OEM, offset in part by increased Windows Phone revenue. Office Consumer revenue declined $618 million or 15%, while Windows OEM revenue declined 10%. These decreases resulted primarily from the impact on revenue of a decline in the x86 PC market, which we estimate declined approximately 9%. Windows Phone revenue increased $1.2 billion, including an increase in patent licensing revenue and sales of Windows Phone licenses. 33 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 In May 2013, we announced that we had surpassed 100 million licenses sold for Windows 8. D&C Licensing gross margin decreased $196 million or 1%, due to decreased revenue, offset in part by a $278 million or 12% decrease in cost of revenue. D&C Licensing cost of revenue decreased, due mainly to lower traffic acquisition costs, offset in part by a $375 million increase in expenses for payments made to Nokia related to joint strategic initiatives. Computing and Gaming Hardware Computing and Gaming Hardware revenue decreased $279 million or 4%, due primarily to lower revenue from the Xbox Platform, offset in part by Surface revenue. Xbox Platform revenue decreased $1.3 billion or 22%, due mainly to lower volumes of consoles sold, offset in part by higher Xbox Live subscription revenue. We shipped 9.8 million Xbox 360 consoles during fiscal year 2013, compared with 13.0 million Xbox 360 consoles during fiscal year 2012. Surface revenue was $853 million. The general availability of Surface RT and Surface Pro started October 26, 2012 and February 9, 2013, respectively. Computing and Gaming Hardware gross margin decreased $1.5 billion or 62%, due to a $1.3 billion or 30% increase in cost of revenue and decreased revenue. Computing and Gaming Hardware cost of revenue increased, primarily due to $1.9 billion in product costs associated with Surface, including a charge for Surface RT inventory adjustments of approximately $900 million. These costs were offset in part by a $920 million or 24% decrease in Xbox Platform cost of revenue, due mainly to a decrease in manufacturing and distribution costs associated with lower volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold. D&C Other D&C Other revenue increased $415 million or 7%, due mainly to higher advertising revenue, which increased $213 million or 7% to $3.5 billion. Search advertising revenue growth was offset in part by a decline in display advertising revenue. Search advertising revenue grew primarily due to increased revenue per search, resulting from ongoing improvements in ad products, while display advertising revenue decreased primarily due to industry-wide market pressure. D&C Other revenue also increased $202 million or 7%, due mainly to higher volumes of content resold through our online platforms. D&C Other gross margin increased $48 million or 2%, due to increased revenue offset in part by a $367 million or 9% increase in cost of revenue. D&C Other cost of revenue increased, due mainly to a $327 million or 28% increase in costs associated with higher volumes of resale transactions, primarily a $257 million increase in royalties on Xbox Live content. Increased traffic acquisition costs were offset in part by lower Yahoo! reimbursement costs. Commercial (In millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 Revenue Licensing $ 42,027 $ 39,686 $ 37,126 6% 7% Other 7,547 5,660 4,644 33% 22% Total Commercial revenue $ 49,574 $ 45,346 $ 41,770 9% 9% Gross Margin Licensing $ 38,604 $ 36,261 $ 34,463 6% 5% Other 1,856 921 579 102% 59% Total Commercial gross margin $ 40,460 $ 37,182 $ 35,042 9% 6% 34 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Commercial revenue increased $4.2 billion or 9%, due mainly to growth in revenue from our on-premises licensing businesses and Commercial Cloud. Collectively, Office Commercial and Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 8%. Collectively, our server products revenue, including Microsoft Azure, grew 13%. Commercial gross margin increased $3.3 billion or 9%, in line with revenue. Commercial Licensing Commercial Licensing revenue increased $2.3 billion or 6%, due primarily to increased revenue from our server products, as well as higher revenue from Windows Commercial and Office Commercial. Our server products revenue grew $1.7 billion or 11%, driven primarily by increased sales of Microsoft SQL Server. Windows Commercial revenue grew $334 million or 10%, due mainly to increased renewal rates and transactional purchases driven by Windows XP end of support. Office Commercial revenue grew $253 million or 1%, and was impacted by customers transitioning to Office 365 Commercial. Commercial Licensing gross margin increased $2.3 billion or 6%, in line with revenue growth. Commercial Other Commercial Other revenue increased $1.9 billion or 33%, due to higher Commercial Cloud revenue and Enterprise Services revenue. Commercial Cloud revenue grew $1.5 billion or 116%, due mainly to higher revenue from Office 365 Commercial. Enterprise Services revenue grew $380 million or 9%, due mainly to growth in Premier Support Services. Commercial Other gross margin increased $935 million or 102%, due to higher revenue, offset in part by a $952 million or 20% increase in cost of revenue. The increase in cost of revenue was due mainly to higher datacenter expenses, reflecting support of our growing Commercial Cloud. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Commercial revenue increased $3.6 billion or 9%, due mainly to growth in revenue from our on-premises licensing businesses and Commercial Cloud. Commercial gross margin increased $2.1 billion or 6%. Commercial Licensing Commercial Licensing revenue increased $2.6 billion or 7%, due to increased revenue from all major commercial offerings. Server products revenue increased $1.2 billion or 9%, driven primarily by growth in Microsoft SQL Server, System Center, and Windows Server. Office Commercial revenue increased $622 million or 4%, reflecting growth in Office revenue from volume licensing agreements with software assurance. Windows Commercial revenue increased $379 million or 13%, reflecting continued support of our platform. Skype revenue increased, due primarily to including a full year of results in fiscal year 2013. Commercial Licensing gross margin increased $1.8 billion or 5%, due to higher revenue, offset in part by a $762 million or 29% increase in cost of revenue. Commercial Licensing cost of revenue increased, due to increased costs from all major commercial offerings, including $287 million higher intellectual property licensing costs. Commercial Other Commercial Other revenue increased $1.0 billion or 22%, due to higher Commercial Cloud and Enterprise Services revenue. Commercial Cloud revenue grew $582 million or 82%, due mainly to higher revenue from Office 365 Commercial. Enterprise Services revenue grew $434 million or 11%, due to growth in both Premier product support and consulting services. 35 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Commercial Other gross margin increased $342 million or 59%, due to higher revenue, offset in part by a $674 million or 17% increase in cost of revenue. The increase in cost of revenue was due mainly to higher datacenter expenses, reflecting investment in online operations infrastructure, and increased headcount-related expenses, mainly due to higher Enterprise Services headcount supporting revenue growth. Corporate and Other (In millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 Revenue $ (415 ) $ 403 $ (485 ) (203)% 183% Gross margin $ (494 ) $ 372 $ (582 ) (233)% 164% Corporate and Other revenue comprises certain revenue deferrals, including those related to product and service upgrade offers and pre-sales of new products to OEMs prior to general availability. Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Corporate and Other revenue decreased $818 million, primarily due to the timing of revenue deferrals. During fiscal year 2014, we deferred a net $349 million of revenue related to Bundled Offerings. During fiscal year 2013, we recognized $540 million of previously deferred revenue related to the Windows Upgrade Offer. The revenue was recognized upon expiration of the offer. Corporate and Other gross margin decreased $866 million, due mainly to decreased revenue. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Corporate and Other revenue increased $888 million or 183%, primarily due to the timing of revenue deferrals. During fiscal year 2013, we recognized $540 million of revenue that had been deferred in fiscal year 2012 related to the Windows Upgrade Offer. The revenue was recognized upon expiration of the offer. Corporate and Other gross margin increased $954 million or 164%, due mainly to increased revenue. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 Research and development $ 11,381 $ 10,411 $ 9,811 9% 6% As a percent of revenue 13% 13% 13% 0ppt 0ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code. Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Research and development expenses increased $970 million or 9%, due mainly to increased investment in new products and services in our Devices engineering group, including $275 million of NDS expenses, and increased investment in our Applications and Services engineering group. 36 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Research and development expenses increased, reflecting a $460 million or 6% increase in headcount-related expenses, largely related to the Xbox Platform. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 Sales and marketing $ 15,811 $ 15,276 $ 13,857 4% 10% As a percent of revenue 18% 20% 19% (2)ppt 1ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Sales and marketing expenses increased $535 million or 4%, primarily due to NDS expenses and increased investment in sales resources, offset in part by lower advertising costs. NDS sales and marketing expenses were $394 million during fiscal year 2014. Average headcount, excluding NDS, grew 4%. Advertising costs, excluding NDS, declined $403 million or 15%, primarily due to Windows 8 and Surface costs in the prior year. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Sales and marketing expenses grew, reflecting an $898 million increase in advertising costs associated primarily with Windows 8 and Surface, $181 million higher fees paid to third-party software advisors, and a $145 million or 2% increase in headcount-related expenses. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) 2014 2013 2012 Percentage Change 2014 Versus 2013 Percentage Change 2013 Versus 2012 General and administrative $ 4,821 $ 5,149 $ 4,569 (6)% 13% As a percent of revenue 6% 7% 6% (1)ppt 1ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 General and administrative expenses decreased $328 million or 6%, due mainly to the EU fine in the prior year, offset in part by higher business taxes, higher costs for internal use software capitalized in the prior year, and NDS expenses. NDS general and administrative expenses were $77 million during fiscal year 2014. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 General and administrative expenses increased, primarily due to legal charges for the EU fine. 37 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Goodwill Impairment We test goodwill for impairment annually on May 1 at the reporting unit level using a discounted cash flow methodology with a peer-based, risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital. No impairment of goodwill was identified as of May 1, 2014 or May 2013. Our goodwill impairment test as of May 1, 2012, indicated that the carrying value of our previous Online Services Division reporting unit (in Devices and Consumer Other under our current segment structure) exceeded its estimated fair value. Accordingly, we recorded a non-cash, non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge of $6.2 billion during the three months ended June 30, 2012, reducing the units goodwill from $6.4 billion to $223 million. Integration and Restructuring Integration and restructuring expenses consist of transaction fees and direct acquisition costs, including legal, finance, consulting, and other professional fees. Integration and restructuring expenses also include employee compensation and termination costs associated with certain reorganization activities. Integration and restructuring expenses were $127 million for fiscal year 2014, reflecting expenses associated with the acquisition and integration of NDS. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) The components of other income (expense) were as follows: (In millions) Year Ended June 30, 2014 2013 2012 Dividends and interest income $ 883 $ 677 $ 800 Interest expense (597 ) (429 ) (380 ) Net recognized gains on investments 437 116 564 Net losses on derivatives (328 ) (196 ) (364 ) Net losses on foreign currency remeasurements (165 ) (74 ) (117 ) Other (169 ) 194 1 Total $ 61 $ 288 $ 504 We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense). Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities, which are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income (OCI) until the securities are sold or other-than-temporarily impaired, at which time the amounts are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) into other income (expense). Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Dividends and interest income increased due to higher portfolio balances. Interest expense increased due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments increased primarily due to higher gains on sales of equity securities and lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $106 million in fiscal year 2014, compared with $208 million in fiscal year 2013. Net losses on derivatives increased due to higher losses on foreign exchange contracts, losses on equity derivatives as compared to gains in the prior period, offset in part by gains on commodity and interest rate derivatives as compared to losses in the prior period. For fiscal year 2014, other reflects recognized losses from certain joint ventures, offset in part by a recognized gain on a divestiture. For fiscal year 2013, other reflects recognized gains on divestitures, including the gain recognized upon the divestiture of our 50% share in the MSNBC joint venture. 38 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Dividends and interest income decreased due to lower yields on our fixed-income investments, offset in part by higher average portfolio investment balances. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity and fixed-income securities and a gain recognized on the partial sale of our Facebook holding in the prior year, offset in part by lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $208 million in fiscal year 2013, compared with $298 million in fiscal year 2012. Net losses on derivatives decreased due to gains on equity derivatives in the current fiscal year as compared with losses in the prior fiscal year, and lower losses on commodity and foreign exchange derivatives as compared to the prior fiscal year, offset in part by losses on interest-rate derivatives in the current fiscal year as compared to gains in the prior fiscal year. For the current year, other reflects recognized gains on divestitures, including the gain recognized upon the divestiture of our 50% share in the MSNBC joint venture. INCOME TAXES Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2014 and 2013 was approximately 21% and 19%, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our fiscal year 2014 effective rate increased by 2% from fiscal year 2013 mainly due to adjustments of $458 million to prior years liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing that increased taxable income in more highly taxed jurisdictions, as well as losses incurred by NDS and changes in the geographic mix of our business. This was offset in part by favorable transfer pricing developments in certain foreign tax jurisdictions, primarily Denmark. Changes in the mix of income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes in the geographic distribution of and changes in consumer demand for our products and services. We supply our Windows PC operating system to customers through our U.S. regional operating center, while we supply the Microsoft Office system and our server products and tools to customers through our foreign regional operations centers. Windows PC operating system revenue decreased $655 million in fiscal year 2014, while Microsoft Office system and server products and tools revenue increased $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, during this same period. In fiscal years 2014 and 2013, our U.S. income before income taxes was $7.1 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, and comprised 26% and 25%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. In fiscal years 2014 and 2013, the foreign income before income taxes was $20.7 billion and $20.4 billion, respectively, and comprised 74% and 75%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $10.4 billion and $9.4 billion as of June 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily to adjustments to prior years liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing and adjustments related to our IRS audits. While we settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we remain under audit for those years. In February 2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of June 30, 2014, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues. We also continue to be subject to examination by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2013. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2013, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. 39 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2013 and 2012 was approximately 19% and 24%, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. Our fiscal year 2013 effective rate decreased by 5% from fiscal year 2012 mainly due to a nonrecurring $6.2 billion non-tax deductible goodwill impairment charge that was recorded in fiscal year 2012. The goodwill impairment charge increased our effective tax rate by 10% in fiscal year 2012. In addition, in fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we recognized a reduction of 18% and 21%, respectively, to the effective tax rate due to foreign earnings taxed at lower rates. The decrease in our effective tax rate for fiscal year 2013 was primarily offset by a 1% increase related to the EU fine, which is not tax deductible. Changes in the mix of income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries also impacted our effective tax rates and resulted primarily from changes in the geographic distribution of and changes in consumer demand for our products and services. We supply our Windows PC operating system to customers through our U.S. regional operating center, while we supply the Microsoft Office system and our server products and tools to customers through our foreign regional operations centers. Windows PC operating system revenue increased $209 million in fiscal year 2013, while Microsoft Office system and server products and tools revenue increased $696 million and $1.2 billion, respectively, during this same period. In fiscal years 2013 and 2012, our U.S. income before income taxes was $6.7 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, and comprised 25% and 7%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. In fiscal years 2013 and 2012, the foreign income before income taxes was $20.4 billion and $20.7 billion, respectively, and comprised 75% and 93%, respectively, of our income before income taxes. The primary driver for the increase in the U.S. income before income tax in fiscal year 2013 was the goodwill impairment charge recorded during the prior year. Tax contingencies and other tax liabilities were $9.4 billion and $7.6 billion as of June 30, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily to transfer pricing, including transfer pricing developments in certain foreign tax jurisdictions, primarily Denmark. While we settled a portion of the I.R.S. audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we remain under audit for those years. In February 2012, the I.R.S. withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of June 30, 2013, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably. We do not believe it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next 12 months because we do not believe the remaining open issues will be resolved within the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination by the I.R.S. for tax years 2007 to 2012. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2012, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $85.7 billion as of June 30, 2014, compared with $77.0 billion as of June 30, 2013. Equity and other investments were $14.6 billion as of June 30, 2014, compared with $10.8 billion as of June 30, 2013. Our short-term investments are primarily to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are 40 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments at June 30, 2014, $77.1 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was $2.6 billion. As of June 30, 2014, approximately 84% of the cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 5% were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, and approximately 1% were invested in U.S. mortgage-backed securities, all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. Securities lending We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $558 million as of June 30, 2014. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the fiscal year were $619 million and $1.3 billion, respectively. Intra-year variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. government securities. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, common and preferred stock, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and certificates of deposit. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Fiscal year 2014 compared with fiscal year 2013 Cash flows from operations increased $3.4 billion during the current fiscal year to $32.2 billion, due mainly to increases in cash received from customers. Cash used in financing increased $246 million to $8.4 billion, due mainly to a $2.0 billion increase in cash used for common stock repurchases, a $1.4 billion increase in dividends paid, and a $324 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of common stock, offset in part by a $3.4 billion increase in 41 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 proceeds from issuances of debt, net of repayments. Cash used in investing decreased $5.0 billion to $18.8 billion, due mainly to a $10.5 billion decrease in cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, offset in part by a $4.4 billion increase in cash used for acquisition of companies and purchases of intangible and other assets, and a $1.2 billion increase in capital expenditures for property and equipment. Fiscal year 2013 compared with fiscal year 2012 Cash flows from operations decreased $2.8 billion during the current fiscal year to $28.8 billion, due mainly to changes in working capital, including increases in inventory and other current assets. Cash used for financing decreased $1.3 billion to $8.1 billion, due mainly to a $3.5 billion increase in proceeds from issuances of debt, net of repayments, offset in part by a $1.1 billion increase in dividends paid and a $982 million decrease in proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Cash used in investing decreased $975 million to $23.8 billion, due mainly to an $8.5 billion decrease in cash used for acquisitions of companies and purchases of intangible and other assets, offset in part by a $5.8 billion increase in cash used for net investment purchases, maturities, and sales, and a $2.0 billion increase in cash used for additions to property and equipment. Debt We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. As of June 30, 2014, we had $22.6 billion of issued and outstanding debt, comprising $2.0 billion of short-term debt and $20.6 billion of long-term debt. Short-term debt As of June 30, 2014, we had $2.0 billion of commercial paper issued and outstanding, with a weighted-average interest rate of 0.12% and maturities ranging from 86 days to 91 days. The estimated fair value of this commercial paper approximates its carrying value. We have a $5.0 billion credit facility that expires on November 14, 2018, which serves as a back-up for our commercial paper program. As of June 30, 2014, we were in compliance with the only financial covenant in the credit agreement, which requires us to maintain a coverage ratio of at least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization to interest expense, as defined in the credit agreement. No amounts were drawn against the credit facility during any of the periods presented. Long-term debt As of June 30, 2014, the total carrying value and estimated fair value of our long-term debt were $20.6 billion and $21.5 billion, respectively. These estimated fair values are based on Level 2 inputs. 42 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 The components of our long-term debt and the associated interest rates were as follows as of June 30, 2014: Due Date Face Value Stated Interest Rate Effective Interest Rate (In millions) Notes September 25, 2015 $ 1,750 1.625% 1.795% February 8, 2016 750 2.500% 2.642% November 15, 2017 600 0.875% 1.084% May 1, 2018 450 1.000% 1.106% December 6, 2018 (a) 1,250 1.625% 1.824% June 1, 2019 1,000 4.200% 4.379% October 1, 2020 1,000 3.000% 3.137% February 8, 2021 500 4.000% 4.082% December 6, 2021 (b) 2,396 2.125% 2.233% November 15, 2022 750 2.125% 2.239% May 1, 2023 1,000 2.375% 2.465% December 15, 2023 (a) 1,500 3.625% 3.726% December 6, 2028 (b) 2,396 3.125% 3.218% May 2, 2033 (c) 753 2.625% 2.690% June 1, 2039 750 5.200% 5.240% October 1, 2040 1,000 4.500% 4.567% February 8, 2041 1,000 5.300% 5.361% November 15, 2042 900 3.500% 3.571% May 1, 2043 500 3.750% 3.829% December 15, 2043 (a) 500 4.875% 4.918% Total $ 20,745 (a) In December 2013, we issued $3.3 billion of debt securities. (b) In December 2013, we issued 3.5 billion of debt securities. (c) In April 2013, we issued 550 million of debt securities. The notes in this table are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other senior unsecured debt outstanding. Interest on these notes is paid semi-annually, except for the euro-denominated debt securities on which interest is paid annually. As of June 30, 2014, the aggregate unamortized discount for our long-term debt was $100 million. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue at June 30, 2014 was comprised mainly of unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue at June 30, 2014 also included payments for: post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Xbox Live subscriptions and prepaid points; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Office 365 subscriptions; Bundled Offerings; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. 43 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of June 30, 2014: (In millions) Three Months Ending, September 30, 2014 $ 8,667 December 31, 2014 7,380 March 31, 2015 4,812 June 30, 2015 2,291 Thereafter 2,008 Total $ 25,158 Share Repurchases On September 16, 2013, our Board of Directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing up to $40.0 billion in share repurchases. The share repurchase program became effective on October 1, 2013, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. As of June 30, 2014, $35.1 billion remained of the $40.0 billion share repurchase program. During fiscal year 2014, we repurchased 175 million shares of Microsoft common stock for $6.4 billion; 128 million shares were repurchased for $4.9 billion under the share repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors on September 16, 2013 and 47 million shares were repurchased for $1.5 billion under the share repurchase program that was announced on September 22, 2008 and expired September 30, 2013. During fiscal years 2013 and 2012, we repurchased 158 million shares for $4.6 billion and 142 million shares for $4.0 billion, respectively, under the share repurchase program announced on September 22, 2008. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Dividends During fiscal years 2014 and 2013, our Board of Directors declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount Payment Date (In millions) Fiscal Year 2014 September 16, 2013 $ 0.28 November 21, 2013 $ 2,332 December 12, 2013 November 19, 2013 $ 0.28 February 20, 2014 $ 2,322 March 13, 2014 March 11, 2014 $ 0.28 May 15, 2014 $ 2,309 June 12, 2014 June 10, 2014 $ 0.28 August 21, 2014 $ 2,307 September 11, 2014 Fiscal Year 2013 September 18, 2012 $ 0.23 November 15, 2012 $ 1,933 December 13, 2012 November 28, 2012 $ 0.23 February 21, 2013 $ 1,925 March 14, 2013 March 11, 2013 $ 0.23 May 16, 2013 $ 1,921 June 13, 2013 June 12, 2013 $ 0.23 August 15, 2013 $ 1,916 September 12, 2013 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. 44 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of June 30, 2014: (In millions) 2015 2016-2017 2018-2019 Thereafter Total Long-term debt: (a) Principal payments $ 0 $ 2,500 $ 3,300 $ 14,945 $ 20,745 Interest payments 566 1,069 1,015 6,110 8,760 Construction commitments (b) 880 0 0 0 880 Operating leases (c) 878 1,419 1,054 1,063 4,414 Purchase commitments (d) 12,995 969 657 153 14,774 Other long-term liabilities (e) 0 354 80 393 827 Total contractual obligations $ 15,319 $ 6,311 $ 6,106 $ 22,664 $ 50,400 (a) See Note 12 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (b) These amounts represent commitments for the construction of buildings, building improvements, and leasehold improvements. (c) These amounts represent undiscounted future minimum rental commitments under noncancellable facilities leases. (d) These amounts represent purchase commitments, including all open purchase orders and all contracts that are take-or-pay contracts that are not presented as construction commitments above. (e) We have excluded long-term tax contingencies, other tax liabilities, and deferred income taxes of $13.3 billion from the amounts presented. We have also excluded unearned revenue and non-cash items. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years in support of our cloud and devices strategy. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. 45 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In December 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance enhancing disclosure requirements about the nature of an entitys right to offset and related arrangements associated with its financial instruments. The new guidance requires the disclosure of the gross amounts subject to rights of set-off, amounts offset in accordance with the accounting standards followed, and the related net exposure. In January 2013, the FASB clarified that the scope of this guidance applies to derivatives, repurchase agreements, and securities lending arrangements that are either offset or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement, or similar agreements. We adopted this new guidance beginning July 1, 2013. Adoption of this new guidance resulted only in changes to the presentation of Note 5 Derivatives of the Notes to Financial Statements. In February 2013, the FASB issued guidance on disclosure requirements for items reclassified out of AOCI. This new guidance requires entities to present (either on the face of the income statement or in the notes to financial statements) the effects on the line items of the income statement for amounts reclassified out of AOCI. We adopted this new guidance beginning July 1, 2013. Adoption of this new guidance resulted only in changes to the presentation of Note 19 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income of the Notes to Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In March 2013, the FASB issued guidance on a parents accounting for the cumulative translation adjustment upon derecognition of a subsidiary or group of assets within a foreign entity. This new guidance requires that the parent release any related cumulative translation adjustment into net income only if the sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the foreign entity in which the subsidiary or group of assets had resided. The new guidance will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2014. We do not anticipate material impacts on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. In May 2014, as part of its ongoing efforts to assist in the convergence of U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards, the FASB issued a new standard related to revenue recognition. Under the new standard, recognition of revenue occurs when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In addition, the standard requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The new standard will be effective for us beginning July 1, 2017 and early adoption is not permitted. We anticipate this standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, and we are currently evaluating its impact. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for 46 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 current products combined with rights to receive unspecified future versions of software products (Software Assurance) and are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period. Software updates are evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether they meet the definition of an upgrade, which may require revenue to be deferred and recognized when the upgrade is delivered. If it is determined that implied post-contract customer support (PCS) is being provided, revenue from the arrangement is deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. If updates are determined to not meet the definition of an upgrade, revenue is generally recognized as products are shipped or made available. Microsoft enters into arrangements that can include various combinations of software, services, and hardware. Where elements are delivered over different periods of time, and when allowed under U.S. GAAP, revenue is allocated to the respective elements based on their relative selling prices at the inception of the arrangement, and revenue is recognized as each element is delivered. We use a hierarchy to determine the fair value to be used for allocating revenue to elements: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence, and (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP). For software elements, we follow the industry specific software guidance which only allows for the use of VSOE in establishing fair value. Generally, VSOE is the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately or the price established by management for a product that is not yet sold if it is probable that the price will not change before introduction into the marketplace. ESPs are established as best estimates of what the selling prices would be if the deliverables were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. Our process for determining ESPs requires judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. Windows 7 revenue was subject to deferral as a result of the Windows Upgrade Offer, which started June 2, 2012. The offer provided significantly discounted rights to purchase Windows 8 Pro to qualifying end-users that purchased Windows 7 PCs during the eligibility period. Microsoft was responsible for delivering Windows 8 Pro to the end customer. Accordingly, revenue related to the allocated discount for undelivered Windows 8 was deferred until it was delivered or the redemption period expired. Impairment of Investment Securities We review investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. 47 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. The valuation of acquired assets and liabilities, including goodwill, resulting from the acquisition of NDS, is reflective of the enterprise value based on the long-term financial forecast for the business. In this highly competitive and volatile market, it is possible that we may not realize our forecasts. Given the value assigned to goodwill in the purchase price allocation, we will closely monitor the performance of the business versus the long-term forecast to determine if any impairments arise. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory 48 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. The determination of market value and the estimated volume of demand used in the lower of cost or market analysis require significant judgment. 49 Table of Contents PART II Item 7 STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENTS RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented in this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based on managements estimates and judgments, have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems to provide reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial records are reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented by written policies, an organizational structure providing division of responsibilities, careful selection and training of qualified personnel, and a program of internal audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely of independent directors of the Company, meets periodically with management, internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm to ensure that each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and the internal auditors each have full and free access to the Audit Committee. Satya Nadella Chief Executive Officer Amy E. Hood Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank H. Brod Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration; Chief Accounting Officer 50 Table of Contents PART II Item 7A