Managements Discussion and Analysis (Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015, our Form 8-K filed on October 27, 2015, and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q. Microsoft is a technology leader focused on building best-in-class platforms and productivity services for a mobile-first, cloud-first world. We strive to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We develop and market software, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to peoples lives. We generate revenue by developing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products, by offering an array of services, including cloud-based services to consumers and businesses, by designing, manufacturing, and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees, designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services, datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services, and income taxes. In July 2015, we announced a restructuring of our phone business, including the creation of the Windows and Devices Group. This reinforces our strategy to create a vibrant Windows ecosystem with a single set of experiences across our first-party device family and original equipment manufacturer (OEM) offerings. Part of this strategy involves focusing our phone devices on a narrower range of customer categories and differentiating through the combination of hardware and software we are uniquely positioned to offer. Our change in strategy for the phone business is expected to result in a reduction in units sold and associated expenses. Highlights from the third quarter of fiscal year 2016 included: Our commercial cloud, which primarily comprises Office 365 Commercial, Microsoft Azure, and Dynamics CRM Online, reached an annualized run rate* exceeding $10.0 billion. Office 365 Consumer subscribers increased to 22.2 million. Dynamics CRM Online seat additions more than doubled year-over-year. Microsoft Azure revenue grew 110%, with usage of Azure compute and Azure SQL database more than doubling year-over-year. Enterprise Mobility customers more than doubled year-over-year to 27,000, and the installed base nearly quadrupled year-over-year. Windows 10 is now active on more than 270 million devices around the world. Xbox Live monthly active users grew 26% year-over-year to 46 million. * Annualized run rate was calculated by multiplying March 2016 revenue by twelve months. 33 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The market for software, devices, and cloud-based services is dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in devices and infrastructure will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies throughout fiscal year 2015, and continuing into fiscal year 2016, negatively impacted reported revenue and reduced reported expenses from our international operations in the current period as compared to the prior year. See a discussion of these factors and other risks under Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q). Seasonality Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers. Unearned Revenue Quarterly and annual revenue is impacted by the deferral of revenue, primarily including: Revenue deferred on Windows 10 licenses to reflect ratable recognition over the life of the device. Revenue deferred on bundled products and services (Bundled Offerings). If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Reportable Segments The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. Segment information appearing in Note 18 Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements is also presented on this basis. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. In June 2015, we announced a change in organizational structure as part of our transformation in the mobile-first, cloud-first world. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, the Companys chief operating decision maker, who is also our Chief Executive Officer, requested changes in the information that he regularly reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance. As a result, beginning in fiscal year 2016, we report our financial 34 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 performance based on our new segments, Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing, and analyze operating income as the measure of segment profitability. We have recast certain previously reported amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor segment performance. Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and Business Processes segment consists of products and cloud services in our portfolio of productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: Office Commercial, including volume licensing and subscriptions to Office 365 Commercial for products and cloud services such as Microsoft Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Skype for Business, and related Client Access Licenses (CALs). Office Consumer, including Office sold through retail or through an Office 365 Consumer subscription, and Office Consumer Services, including Outlook.com, OneDrive, and consumer Skype services. Microsoft Dynamics business solutions, including Dynamics ERP products, Dynamics CRM on-premises, and Dynamics CRM Online (Microsoft Dynamics). Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business. This segment primarily comprises: Server products and cloud services, including Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related CALs, as well as Microsoft Azure. Enterprise Services, including Premier Support Services and Microsoft Consulting Services. More Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and services geared towards harmonizing the interests of end users, developers, and information technology professionals across screens of all sizes. This segment primarily comprises: Windows, including Windows OEM licensing (Windows OEM) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows operating system, volume licensing of the Windows operating system, patent licensing, Windows Embedded, MSN display advertising, and Windows Phone licensing. Devices, including phones, Surface, and Microsoft PC accessories. Gaming, including Xbox hardware; Xbox Live, comprising transactions, subscriptions, and advertising; video games; and third-party video game royalties. Search advertising. SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue $ 20,531 $ 21,729 (6)% $ 64,706 $ 71,400 (9)% Gross margin $ 12,809 $ 14,568 (12)% $ 39,905 $ 45,830 (13)% Operating income $ 5,283 $ 6,594 (20)% $ 17,102 $ 20,214 (15)% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.47 $ 0.61 (23)% $ 1.70 $ 1.86 (9)% 35 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Revenue decreased $1.2 billion or 6%, primarily due to the impact of a net revenue deferral related to Windows 10 of $1.6 billion and an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $838 million or 4%, offset in part by revenue growth in each of our reportable segments. Windows 10 revenue is primarily recognized upfront in the More Personal Computing segment, and the deferral and subsequent recognition of revenue is reflected in Corporate and Other. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher Enterprise Services revenue, as well as higher revenue from server products and cloud services, including Microsoft Azure. More Personal Computing revenue increased, primarily due to revenue growth in search advertising and Gaming, offset in part by lower revenue from Windows and Devices. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by higher revenue from Office and Microsoft Dynamics. Operating income decreased $1.3 billion or 20%, primarily due to lower gross margin, offset in part by a reduction in operating expenses, and impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses in the prior year. Gross margin decreased $1.8 billion or 12%, driven by the decline in revenue as discussed above, and included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $749 million or 5%. Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud gross margin decreased, offset in part by higher gross margin from More Personal Computing. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $561 million or 8%, mainly due to growth in our commercial cloud and search advertising, offset in part by lower phone sales, driven by the previously announced change in strategy for the phone business. Operating expenses decreased $258 million or 3%, primarily due to a decline in sales and marketing expenses, driven by a reduction in phone expenses. Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses were $190 million in the prior year, comprised mainly of restructuring charges associated with our July 2014 restructuring plan to simplify our organization and align the purchase of Nokia Corporations Devices and Services business (NDS) with our overall strategy (Phone Hardware Integration Plan). Diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.47 for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Current year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by net revenue deferrals, primarily related to Windows 10, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.15, and was favorably impacted by the adoption of new accounting guidance related to stock-based compensation, which resulted in an increase to diluted EPS of $0.01. Diluted EPS was $0.61 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Prior year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.01. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Revenue decreased $6.7 billion or 9%, primarily due to the impact of a net revenue deferral related to Windows 10 of $4.6 billion and an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $3.2 billion or 4%. More Personal Computing revenue decreased, primarily due to lower revenue from Devices and Windows, offset in part by revenue growth in search advertising and Gaming. Productivity and Business Processes revenue decreased, driven by an unfavorable foreign currency impact. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services, including Microsoft Azure, and Enterprise Services revenue. Operating income decreased $3.1 billion or 15%, primarily due to lower gross margin, offset in part by prior year impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses and a reduction in operating expenses in the current year. Gross margin decreased $5.9 billion or 13%, driven by the decline in revenue as discussed above, and included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately $2.8 billion or 6%. Productivity and Business Processes and More Personal Computing gross margin decreased, offset in part by higher gross margin from Intelligent Cloud. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue decreased $769 million or 3%, mainly due to lower phone sales, driven by the previously announced change in strategy for the phone business, offset in part by growth in our commercial cloud and search advertising. Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses were $1.6 billion in the prior year, comprised mainly of restructuring charges associated with our Phone Hardware Integration Plan. 36 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Operating expenses decreased $1.2 billion or 5%, primarily due to a decline in sales and marketing expenses, driven by a reduction in phone expenses and a favorable foreign currency impact of approximately 4%. Diluted EPS was $1.70 for the nine months ended March 31, 2016. Current year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by net revenue deferrals, primarily related to Windows 10, which resulted in a decrease to diluted EPS of $0.40, and was favorably impacted by the adoption of new accounting guidance related to stock-based compensation, which resulted in an increase to diluted EPS of $0.05. Diluted EPS was $1.86 for the nine months ended March 31, 2015. Prior year diluted EPS was negatively impacted by impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses, and favorably impacted by the recognition of previously deferred net revenue related to Bundled Offerings, which resulted in a net decrease to diluted EPS of $0.13. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 6,522 $ 6,457 1% $ 19,518 $ 19,769 (1)% Intelligent Cloud 6,096 5,903 3% 18,331 17,419 5% More Personal Computing 9,458 9,369 1% 31,563 33,917 (7)% Corporate and Other (1,545 ) 0 * (4,706 ) 295 * Total revenue $ 20,531 $ 21,729 (6)% $ 64,706 $ 71,400 (9)% Operating income (loss) Productivity and Business Processes $ 2,994 $ 3,204 (7)% $ 9,461 $ 10,192 (7)% Intelligent Cloud 2,188 2,533 (14)% 7,168 7,238 (1)% More Personal Computing 1,645 1,049 57% 5,178 4,063 27% Corporate and Other (1,544 ) (192 ) * (4,705 ) (1,279 ) * Total operating income $ 5,283 $ 6,594 (20)% $ 17,102 $ 20,214 (15)% * Not meaningful. Reportable Segments Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Productivity and Business Processes Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased $65 million or 1%, due to higher revenue from Office and Microsoft Dynamics. Productivity and Business Processes included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. Office Consumer revenue increased $23 million or 3%, driven by revenue growth from Office 365 Consumer subscribers and higher revenue per license, offset in part by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 3% and a decline in the consumer PC market. Office Commercial revenue increased $20 million, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 Commercial, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7% and lower transactional license volume, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 Commercial and a decline in the business PC market. Microsoft Dynamics revenue increased 4%, mainly due to higher revenue from Dynamics CRM Online, driven by seat growth. Microsoft Dynamics revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. 37 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Productivity and Business Processes operating income decreased $210 million or 7%, driven by lower gross margin. Gross margin decreased $242 million or 4%, primarily due to higher cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. Cost of revenue increased $307 million or 32%, primarily due to the increasing cloud mix of revenue and higher datacenter costs to deliver cloud services. Intelligent Cloud Intelligent Cloud revenue increased $193 million or 3%, mainly due to higher Enterprise Services revenue, as well as higher server products and cloud services revenue. Intelligent Cloud revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. Enterprise Services revenue grew $137 million or 11%, mainly due to growth in Premier Support Services, offset in part by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 4%. Server products and cloud services revenue grew slightly, driven by revenue growth from Microsoft Azure of 110%, offset in part by a decline in revenue from our on-premise server products. Server products and cloud services revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. Intelligent Cloud operating income decreased $345 million or 14%, primarily due to higher operating expenses and lower gross margin. Operating expenses increased $267 million or 13%, mainly due to higher research and development expenses of $150 million or 22%, driven by increased investments in our cloud platform, including headcount-related expenses. Gross margin decreased $78 million or 2%, driven by higher cost of revenue, offset in part by revenue growth. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 5%. Cost of revenue increased $271 million or 20%, primarily driven by higher datacenter costs to support Microsoft Azure. More Personal Computing More Personal Computing revenue increased $89 million or 1%, mainly due to higher revenue from search advertising and Gaming, offset in part by lower revenue from Windows and Devices. More Personal Computing revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 2%. Search advertising revenue increased $538 million or 55%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 14%, primarily driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and higher search volume. Gaming revenue increased $64 million or 4%, primarily due to higher revenue from Xbox Live and video games, offset in part by lower Xbox hardware revenue. Xbox Live revenue increased 22%, driven by higher revenue per transaction and volumes of transactions, as well as growth in subscribers. Video games revenue grew 9%, driven by the sales of Minecraft. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 26%, mainly due to a decline in Xbox 360 console volume and lower prices of Xbox One consoles sold. Windows revenue decreased $292 million or 7%, mainly due to lower revenue from patent licensing and Windows OEM. Patent licensing revenue decreased 26%, due to a decline in licensed units and license revenue per unit. Windows OEM revenue decreased 2%. Windows OEM Pro revenue declined 11%, driven by a decline in the business PC market. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue grew 15%, outperforming the consumer PC market, driven by reductions in OEM non-Pro channel inventory in the prior year and a higher mix of premium licenses sold in the current year. Devices revenue decreased $248 million or 11%, driven by the previously announced change in strategy for the phone business, offset in part by higher Surface revenue. Phone revenue decreased $662 million or 47%, as we sold 2.3 million Lumia phones and 15.7 million other phones in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, compared with 8.6 million and 24.7 million sold, respectively, in the prior year. Surface revenue increased $398 million or 56%, primarily driven by the release of Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book in the second quarter of fiscal year 2016, offset in part by a decline in revenue from Surface Pro 3. More Personal Computing operating income increased $596 million or 57%, due to lower operating expenses and higher gross margin. Gross margin increased $105 million or 2%, reflecting higher revenue and a slight reduction in cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 4%. Cost of revenue decreased slightly, primarily driven by a reduction in phone sales, offset in part by higher search advertising and Surface cost of revenue. 38 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Operating expenses decreased $491 million or 14%, mainly due to lower sales and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $308 million or 21% and research and development expenses decreased $174 million or 11%, mainly due to a reduction in phone expenses. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Productivity and Business Processes Productivity and Business Processes revenue decreased $251 million or 1%, primarily due to an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Office Consumer revenue decreased $193 million or 8%, driven by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6% and a decline in the consumer PC market, offset in part by revenue growth from Office 365 Consumer subscribers. Office Commercial revenue decreased $114 million or 1%, driven by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Revenue from Office 365 Commercial increased, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset by lower transactional license volume, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 Commercial and a decline in the business PC market. Microsoft Dynamics revenue increased 3%, mainly due to higher revenue from Dynamics CRM Online, driven by seat growth. Microsoft Dynamics revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Productivity and Business Processes operating income decreased $731 million or 7%, driven by lower gross margin, offset in part by a reduction in operating expenses. Gross margin decreased $958 million or 6%, primarily due to higher cost of revenue, as well as the decline in Office revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Cost of revenue increased $707 million or 25%, primarily due to the increasing cloud mix of revenue and higher datacenter costs to deliver cloud services. Operating expenses decreased $227 million or 3%, driven by lower sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $206 million or 6%, mainly due to a reduction in headcount-related expenses and lower fees paid to third-party enterprise software advisors. Intelligent Cloud Intelligent Cloud revenue increased $912 million or 5%, mainly due to higher server products and cloud services revenue, as well as higher Enterprise Services revenue. Intelligent Cloud revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Server products and cloud services revenue grew $433 million or 3%, driven by revenue growth from Microsoft Azure of 118%, offset in part by a decline in revenue from our on-premise server products. Server products and cloud services revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Enterprise Services revenue grew $377 million or 10%, mainly due to growth in Premier Support Services, offset in part by an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Intelligent Cloud operating income decreased $70 million or 1%, primarily due to higher operating expenses, offset in part by higher gross margin. Operating expenses increased $518 million or 9%, mainly due to higher research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses. Research and development expenses increased $383 million or 19% and sales and marketing expenses increased $124 million or 4%, driven by increased investments in our cloud platform, including headcount-related expenses. Gross margin increased $448 million or 3%, driven by revenue growth, offset in part by higher cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 7%. Cost of revenue increased $464 million or 11%, primarily driven by higher datacenter costs to support Microsoft Azure. More Personal Computing More Personal Computing revenue decreased $2.4 billion or 7%, mainly due to lower revenue from Devices and Windows, offset in part by higher revenue from search advertising and Gaming. More Personal Computing revenue included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 3%. 39 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Devices revenue decreased $2.9 billion or 31%, mainly due to lower revenue from phones, driven by the previously announced change in strategy for the phone business, offset in part by higher Surface revenue. Phone revenue decreased $3.4 billion or 54%, as we sold 12.7 million Lumia phones and 63.7 million other phones during the nine months ended March 31, 2016, compared with 28.5 million and 107.3 million sold, respectively, in the prior year. Surface revenue increased $410 million or 15%, primarily driven by Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book, as well as the release of Surface 3 in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2015, offset in part by a decline in revenue from Surface Pro 3. Windows revenue decreased $1.0 billion or 7%, mainly due to lower revenue from Windows OEM and patent licensing. Windows OEM revenue decreased 4%. Windows OEM Pro revenue declined 8%, driven by a decline in the business PC market. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue increased 2%, outperforming the consumer PC market, driven by a higher mix of premium licenses sold. Patent licensing revenue decreased 29%, due to a decline in licensed units and license revenue per unit. Search advertising revenue increased $1.2 billion or 43%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 18%, primarily driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and higher search volume. Gaming revenue increased $284 million or 4%, primarily due to higher revenue from Xbox Live and video games, offset in part by lower Xbox hardware revenue. Xbox Live revenue increased 21%, driven by higher revenue per transaction and volumes of transactions, as well as growth in subscribers. Video games revenue grew 41%, driven by the launch of Halo 5 and sales of Minecraft. We acquired Mojang AB, the Swedish video game developer of the Minecraft gaming franchise, in November 2014. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 14%, mainly due to a decline in Xbox 360 console volume and lower prices of Xbox One consoles sold, offset in part by higher Xbox One console volume. More Personal Computing operating income increased $1.1 billion or 27%, primarily due to lower operating expenses, offset in part by lower gross margin. Gross margin decreased $416 million or 3%, reflecting lower revenue, primarily as a result of lower phone sales, offset in part by a reduction in cost of revenue. Gross margin included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of approximately 6%. Cost of revenue decreased $1.9 billion or 10%, primarily driven by a reduction in phone sales, offset in part by higher search advertising cost of revenue. Operating expenses decreased $1.5 billion or 13%, mainly due to lower sales and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $970 million or 19% and research and development expenses decreased $526 million or 11%, driven by a reduction in phone expenses. Corporate and Other Corporate and Other revenue primarily comprises certain revenue deferrals, including those related to Windows 10, Bundled Offerings, and video games. Corporate and Other operating income (loss) primarily comprises revenue deferrals and corporate-level activity not specifically allocated to a segment, including impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses. Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Corporate and Other revenue decreased $1.5 billion, primarily due to the shift to ratable revenue recognition for Windows 10 in the current fiscal year. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, we deferred a net $1.6 billion of revenue related to Windows 10. Corporate and Other operating loss increased $1.4 billion, primarily due to decreased revenue, offset in part by $190 million of impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses in the prior year, reflecting costs associated with the acquisition of NDS. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Corporate and Other revenue decreased $5.0 billion, primarily due to the shift to ratable revenue recognition for Windows 10 in the current fiscal year. During the nine months ended March 31, 2016, we deferred a net $4.6 billion of revenue related to Windows 10. During the nine months ended March 31, 2015, we recognized a net $296 million of previously deferred revenue related to Bundled Offerings. 40 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Corporate and Other operating loss increased $3.4 billion, primarily due to decreased revenue, offset in part by $1.6 billion of impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses in the prior year. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Research and development $ 2,980 $ 2,984 0% $ 8,842 $ 8,952 (1)% As a percent of revenue 15% 14% 1ppt 14% 13% 1ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code. Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Research and development expenses decreased slightly, primarily due to a reduction in phone expenses, driven by the previously announced change in strategy for the phone business, offset in part by increased investments in our cloud platform, including headcount-related expenses. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Research and development expenses decreased $110 million or 1%, primarily due to a reduction in phone expenses, offset in part by increased investments in our cloud platform, including headcount-related expenses. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 Sales and marketing $ 3,406 $ 3,709 (8)% $ 10,699 $ 11,752 (9)% As a percent of revenue 17% 17% 0ppt 17% 16% 1ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Sales and marketing expenses decreased $303 million or 8%, primarily due to a reduction in phone expenses, driven by the previously announced change in strategy for the phone business. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.1 billion or 9%, primarily due to a reduction in phone and headcount-related expenses, as well as lower fees paid to third-party enterprise software advisors. Sales and marketing expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of approximately 4%. 41 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change Nine Months Ended March 31, Percentage Change 2016 2015 2016 2015 General and administrative $ 1,140 $ 1,091 4% $ 3,262 $ 3,339 (2)% As a percent of revenue 6% 5% 1ppt 5% 5% 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 General and administrative expenses increased $49 million or 4%, primarily due to increased investments in infrastructure supporting our business transformation. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 General and administrative expenses decreased $77 million or 2%, primarily due to a reduction in headcount-related expenses, offset in part by increased investments in infrastructure supporting our business transformation. IMPAIRMENT, INTEGRATION, AND RESTRUCTURING EXPENSES Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses include costs associated with the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to our phone hardware business, employee severance expenses and costs associated with the consolidation of facilities and manufacturing operations related to restructuring activities, and systems consolidation and other business integration expenses associated with our acquisition of NDS. Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses were $190 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, comprised mainly of restructuring charges of $98 million, including employee severance expenses and the write-down of certain assets and in connection with our Phone Hardware Integration Plan, and integration expenses of $92 million, primarily systems consolidation costs and employee-related expenses. See Note 13 Restructuring Charges of the Notes to Financial Statements for discussion of our restructuring plans. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses were $1.6 billion during the nine months ended March 31, 2015, comprised mainly of restructuring charges of $1.3 billion, including employee severance expenses and the write-down of certain assets in connection with our Phone Hardware Integration Plan. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended March 31, Nine Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Dividends and interest income $ 230 $ 160 $ 629 $ 568 Interest expense (340 ) (211 ) (898 ) (534 ) Net recognized gains on investments 85 169 193 565 Net losses on derivatives (155 ) (114 ) (414 ) (386 ) Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (18 ) (54 ) (52 ) 107 Other (49 ) (27 ) (156 ) (271 ) Total $ (247 ) $ (77 ) $ (698 ) $ 49 42 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, such as commodity contracts, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized gains (losses) in the underlying available-for-sale securities and gains (losses) on certain balance sheet amounts from foreign exchange rate changes. Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared with three months ended March 31, 2015 Dividends and interest income increased primarily due to higher portfolio balances and yields. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity and fixed-income securities. Other-than-temporary impairments were $86 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared with $95 million in the prior year. Net losses on derivatives increased due to higher losses on foreign exchange and equity contracts, offset in part by lower losses on commodity derivatives. Other reflects recognized losses from divestitures and certain joint ventures. Nine months ended March 31, 2016 compared with nine months ended March 31, 2015 Dividends and interest income increased primarily due to higher portfolio balances. Interest expense increased due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to lower gains on sales of equity and fixed-income securities and higher other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $248 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2016, compared with $130 million in the prior year. Net losses on derivatives increased due to higher losses on foreign exchange contracts and lower gains on interest-rate derivatives, offset in part by lower losses on commodity derivatives. Other reflects recognized losses on divestitures and certain joint ventures. INCOME TAXES Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was 25% and 24%, respectively, and 17% and 24% for the nine months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. The change in the current quarter and year-to-date effective tax rate compared to prior year was primarily due to changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries, offset by a benefit from the adoption of the new accounting guidance relating to stock-based compensation. The prior year-to-date effective tax rate also included an expense relating to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit adjustments and adjustments to prior years liabilities for intercompany transfer pricing that increased taxable income in more highly-taxed jurisdictions. On July 27, 2015, the U.S. Tax Court issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner related to the treatment of stock-based compensation expense in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. The IRSs decision to appeal on February 19, 2016 prolongs the uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome of the Altera case, and we concluded that no adjustment to our consolidated financial statements is appropriate at this time. Tax contingencies and other income tax liabilities were $12.7 billion and $12.1 billion as of March 31, 2016 and June 30, 2015, respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily to current period quarterly growth relating to intercompany transfer pricing adjustments, offset by a partial settlement of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 in the first quarter of fiscal year 2016. While we settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, and settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 during the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, we remain under audit for those years. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of March 31, 2016, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We also continue to be subject to examination by the IRS for tax years 2010 to 2016. 43 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2016, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $105.6 billion as of March 31, 2016, compared with $96.5 billion as of June 30, 2015. Equity and other investments were $11.3 billion as of March 31, 2016, compared with $12.1 billion as of June 30, 2015. Our short-term investments are primarily to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of March 31, 2016, $102.8 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was $2.4 billion. As of March 31, 2016, approximately 81% of the cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 4% were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, and approximately 5% were invested in U.S. mortgage- and asset-backed securities, all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. The remaining cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in foreign securities. Securities lending We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our consolidated balance sheets. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $373 million as of March 31, 2016. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the three months ended March 31, 2016 were $391 million and $1.1 billion, respectively. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the nine months ended March 31, 2016 were $301 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. Intra-year variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, and U.S. government securities. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, common and preferred stock, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, U.S. government and agency securities, and certificates of deposit. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In 44 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Cash flows from operations increased $2.0 billion to $24.9 billion for the nine months ended March 31, 2016, mainly due to lower operating expenditures. Cash used in financing increased $3.3 billion to $9.4 billion, mainly due to a $2.1 billion increase in cash used for common stock repurchases and a $799 million increase in dividends paid, offset in part by a $582 million increase in proceeds from issuances of debt, net of repayments. Cash used in investing decreased $4.1 billion to $13.9 billion, mainly due to a $3.1 billion decrease in cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, and a $1.8 billion decrease in cash used for acquisitions of companies, offset by a $1.5 billion increase in cash used for additions to property and equipment. Debt We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. See Note 11 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue as of March 31, 2016 was comprised mainly of unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements paid for either at inception of the agreement or annually at the beginning of each coverage period and accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue as of March 31, 2016 also included payments for: Windows 10 licenses, post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Xbox Live subscriptions and prepaid points; Office 365 subscriptions; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; Skype prepaid credits and subscriptions; Bundled Offerings; and other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of March 31, 2016: (In millions) Three Months Ending, June 30, 2016 $ 9,156 September 30, 2016 5,737 December 31, 2016 4,136 March 31, 2017 1,847 Thereafter 5,017 Total $ 25,893 Share Repurchases During the three and nine months ended March 31, 2016, we repurchased 69 million and 224 million, respectively, shares of our common stock for $3.6 billion and $11.2 billion, respectively, under a $40.0 billion share repurchase plan approved by our Board of Directors on September 16, 2013. The share repurchase program became effective on October 1, 2013, has no expiration date, and may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. While the program has no expiration date, we intend to complete it by December 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2016, $10.7 billion remained of our $40.0 billion share repurchase program. All repurchases were made using cash resources. 45 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Dividends See Note 16 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years in support of our productivity and platform strategy. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. Liquidity We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt maturities, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE See Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements for further discussion. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. 46 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Revenue Recognition Revenue recognition for multiple-element arrangements requires judgment to determine if multiple elements exist, whether elements can be accounted for as separate units of accounting, and if so, the fair value for each of the elements. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Certain volume licensing arrangements include a perpetual license for current products combined with rights to receive unspecified future versions of software products and are accounted for as subscriptions, with billings recorded as unearned revenue and recognized as revenue ratably over the coverage period. Software updates are evaluated on a case-by-case basis to determine whether they meet the definition of an upgrade, which may require revenue to be deferred and recognized when the upgrade is delivered. If it is determined that implied post-contract customer support (PCS) is being provided, revenue from the arrangement is deferred and recognized over the implied PCS term. If updates are determined to not meet the definition of an upgrade, revenue is generally recognized as products are shipped or made available. Microsoft enters into arrangements that can include various combinations of software, services, and hardware. Where elements are delivered over different periods of time, and when allowed under U.S. GAAP, revenue is allocated to the respective elements based on their relative selling prices at the inception of the arrangement, and revenue is recognized as each element is delivered. We use a hierarchy to determine the fair value to be used for allocating revenue to elements: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence, and (iii) best estimate of selling price (ESP). For software elements, we follow the industry-specific software guidance which only allows for the use of VSOE in establishing fair value. Generally, VSOE is the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately or the price established by management for a product that is not yet sold if it is probable that the price will not change before introduction into the marketplace. ESPs are established as best estimates of what the selling prices would be if the deliverables were sold regularly on a stand-alone basis. Our process for determining ESPs requires judgment and considers multiple factors that may vary over time depending upon the unique facts and circumstances related to each deliverable. In January 2015, we announced Windows 10 would be free to all qualified existing users of Windows 7 and Windows 8.1. This offer differs from historical offers preceding the launch of new versions of Windows as it is being made available for free to existing users in addition to new customers after the offer announcement. We evaluated the nature and accounting treatment of the Windows 10 offer and determined that it represents a marketing and promotional activity, in part because the offer is being made available for free to existing users. As this is a marketing and promotional activity, revenue recognition of new sales of Windows 8 will continue to be recognized as delivered. Customers purchasing a Windows 10 license will receive unspecified updates and upgrades over the life of their Windows 10 device at no additional cost. As these updates and upgrades will not be sold on a stand-alone basis, we are unable to establish VSOE. Accordingly, revenue from licenses of Windows 10 is recognized ratably over the estimated life of the related device, which ranges between two to four years. Impairment of Investment Securities We review investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. 47 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory 48 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. The determination of market value and the estimated volume of demand used in the lower of cost or market analysis require significant judgment. 49 Table of Contents PART I Item 3