Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report, including "Part I Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Part II - Item 1A Risk Factors" contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Risk Factors," beginning at page 45 and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q . Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations; The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines; The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin; The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers; Our expectation that in the future we will acquire additional businesses that we believe will complement our existing businesses; Our expectation that in the future we will enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies; The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter; Our expectation that our inventory levels will be flat to down 4 days, excluding impacts from the sell through of acquired inventory fair value mark-up, in the September 2016 quarter compared to the June 2016 quarter and that it will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers; The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us; Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel; Anticipating increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances in our products; Our belief that deferred cost of sales are recorded at their approximate carrying value and will have low risk of material impairment; Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base; Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase; Our belief that our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs; The impact of any supply disruption we may experience; Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs; That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; That our existing facilities will provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand with modest incremental capital expenditures; That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies; Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields; Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products; The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations; Our anticipated level of capital expenditures; Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends; That the acquisition was structured in a manner that enabled us to utilize a substantial portion of the cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner and that our determinations with respect to the tax consequences of the acquisition are reasonable; 28 Table of Contents The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them; That our U.S. operations and capital requirements are funded primarily by cash generated from U.S. operating activities, which has been and is expected to be sufficient to meet our business needs in the U.S. for the foreseeable future; The impact of seasonality on our business; The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards; That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss; The recoverability of our deferred tax assets; The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate; That when the UK leaves the EU, we may lose our ability to import and export products tax-free throughout Europe which may increase the costs to us for the import and sale of our products to our customers, result in a decrease in sales to certain of our customers or disrupt our operations and product shipments; Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate; Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements are reasonable; Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis; Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation; The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims or indemnification claims; The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and/or cash flows; The effect of fluctuations in currency rates; That our offshore earnings are considered to be permanently reinvested offshore and that we could determine to repatriate some of our offshore earnings in future periods to fund stockholder dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions or other corporate activities; That a significant portion of our future cash generation will be in our foreign subsidiaries; Our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of certain non-US subsidiaries in those subsidiaries; Our intent to maintain a high-quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield; and Our ability to collect accounts receivable. We begin our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of our overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then discuss our Results of Operations for the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 . We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources," "Contractual Obligations" and "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements." Strategy Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, development tools and related software, high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, radio frequency (RF), timing, safety, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity devices, as well as serial EEPROMs, SuperFlash memories, Parallel Flash memories and serial SRAM memories. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers. We license our SuperFlash technology and other technologies to wafer foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products, gate array, RF and analog products that require embedded non-volatile memory. We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries. The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, office automation and telecommunications. Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets. 29 Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe and assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and the assembly and test profit margin. We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties. We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design (CAD) tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory, analog and mixed-signal products, Flash-IP systems, development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products. We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our client engagement managers (CEMs), embedded system engineers (ESEs), and sales management personnel have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for CEMs and distributor sales teams. ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support. See "Our operating results are impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuation of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry," on page 49 for discussion of the impact of seasonality on our business. Acquisition of Atmel On April 4, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel. Under the terms of the merger agreement executed on January 19, 2016, Atmel stockholders received $8.15 per share consisting of $7.00 per share in cash and $1.15 per share in shares of Microchip common stock. We financed the purchase price of our Atmel acquisition using approximately $2.04 billion of cash held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, approximately $0.94 billion from additional borrowings under our existing line of credit agreement and approximately $487.7 million by issuing an aggregate of 10.1 million shares of our common stock. The acquisition price represents a total equity value of approximately $3.47 billion, and a total enterprise value of approximately $3.43 billion, after excluding Atmel's cash and investments net of debt of approximately $39.3 million. Atmel is a worldwide leader in the design and manufacture of microcontrollers, capacitive touch solutions, advanced logic, mixed-signal, nonvolatile memory and RF components. Atmel is headquartered in San Jose, California and has offices, manufacturing and research facilities in North America, Europe and Asia. 30 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, income taxes, senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as our policy regarding revenue recognition to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs); however, we do not believe these policies require us to make estimates or judgments that are as difficult or subjective as our policies described below. Revenue Recognition - Distributors Our distributors worldwide generally have broad price protection and product return rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customer. Revenue is recognized when the distributor sells the product to an end-user, at which time the sales price becomes fixed or determinable. Revenue is not recognized upon shipment to our distributors since, due to discounts from list price as well as price protection rights, the sales price is not substantially fixed or determinable at that time. At the time of shipment to these distributors, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieve inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the gross margin in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. As a result of our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel, we acquired certain distributor relationships where revenue is recognized upon shipment to the distributors. With respect to the distributor relationships acquired in the Micrel acquisition, in the December 2015 quarter, we changed substantially all of these distributor contracts to be consistent with those of our other distributors which resulted in the deferral of revenue recognition under such contracts until the distributor sells the product to their customers. With respect to the distributor relationships acquired in the Atmel acquisition, we currently expect to change substantially all of these distributor contracts to be consistent with those of our other distributors during the quarter ending December 31, 2016 which will result in the deferral of revenue recognition at that time under such contracts until the distributor sells the product to their customers. Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represents the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognize in future periods could be less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions. We sell the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price. However, distributors resell our products to end customers at a very broad range of individually negotiated price points. The majority of our distributors' resales require a reduction from the original list price paid. Often, under these circumstances, we remit back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction is completed in the form of a credit against the distributor's outstanding accounts receivable balance. The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information to us regarding the sale to their end customer. The price reductions vary significantly based on the customer, product, quantity ordered, geographic location and other factors and discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare. The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price to our distributors for the product and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers. Thus, a portion of the deferred income on shipments to distributors balance represents the amount of distributors' original purchase price that will be credited back to the distributors in the future. The wide range and variability of negotiated price concessions granted to distributors does not allow us to accurately estimate the portion of the balance in the deferred income on shipments to distributors account that will be credited back to the distributors. Therefore, we do not reduce deferred income on shipments to 31 Table of Contents distributors or accounts receivable by anticipated future concessions; rather, price concessions are typically recorded against deferred income on shipments to distributors and accounts receivable when incurred, which is generally at the time the distributor sells the product. At June 30, 2016 , we had approximately $338.0 million of deferred revenue and $124.8 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $213.2 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. At March 31, 2016 , we had approximately $267.2 million of deferred revenue and $83.8 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $183.4 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our income statement will be lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet due to additional price credits to be granted to the distributors when the product is sold to their customers. These additional price credits historically have resulted in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognize in the distribution channel of our business. Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $138.7 million at June 30, 2016 and $102.9 million at March 31, 2016 . On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost. The sales price to our distributors may be higher than the amount that the distributors will ultimately owe us because distributors often negotiate price reductions after purchasing products from us and such reductions are often significant. It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, generally within 30 days, for amounts originally invoiced. This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors. As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributor's working capital requirements. These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage. Such advances have no impact on our revenue recognition or our condensed consolidated statements of operations. We process discounts taken by distributors against our deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance and true-up the advanced amounts generally after the end of each completed fiscal quarter. The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand. The agreements governing these advances can be canceled by us at any time. We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors. Price protection is granted to distributors on the inventory they have on hand at the date the price protection is offered. When we reduce the price of our products, it allows the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it has on hand as of the date of the price reduction. There is no immediate revenue impact from the price protection, as it is reflected as a reduction of the deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance. Products returned by distributors and subsequently scrapped have historically been immaterial to our consolidated results of operations. We routinely evaluate the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account. Because of the historically immaterial amounts of inventory that have been scrapped, and historically rare instances where discounts given to a distributor result in a price less than our cost, we believe the deferred costs are recorded at their approximate carrying value. Business Combinations All of our business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method of accounting, (i) acquisition-related costs, except for those costs incurred to issue debt or equity securities, will be expensed in the period incurred; (ii) non-controlling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date; (iii) in-process research and development will be recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date and amortized once the technology reaches technological feasibility; (iv) restructuring costs associated with a business combination will be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and (v) changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date will be recognized through income tax expense or directly in contributed capital. The measurement of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires significant judgment. The valuation of intangible assets and acquired investments, in particular, requires that we use valuation techniques such as the income approach. The income approach includes the use of a discounted cash flow model, which includes discounted cash flow scenarios and requires the following significant estimates: revenue, expenses, capital spending and other costs, and discount rates based on the respective risks of the cash flows. The valuation of non-marketable equity investments acquired also takes into account variables such as conditions reflected in the capital markets, recent financing activity by the investees, the 32 Table of Contents investees' capital structure and the terms of the investees' issued interests. Under the acquisition method of accounting, the aggregate amount of consideration we pay for a company is allocated to net tangible assets and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the value of the net tangible assets and intangible assets is recorded to goodwill. On an annual basis, we test goodwill for impairment and, through June 30, 2016 , we have never recorded an impairment charge against our goodwill balance. Share-based Compensation We measure at fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs) and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. Total share-based compensation during the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $59.6 million, of which $51.7 million was reflected in operating expenses. Total share-based compensation included in cost of sales during the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $7.9 million. Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $7.4 million at June 30, 2016 . Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. The fair value of our RSUs is based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant discounted for expected future dividends. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under our employee stock purchase plans. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, require the use of input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. We use a blend of historical and implied volatility based on options freely traded in the open market as we believe this is most reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical volatility. The expected life of the awards is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our awards. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of future dividend payouts. During the three months ended June 30, 2016, we elected to early adopt ASU 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718). Under this standard, entities are permitted to make an accounting policy election to either estimate forfeitures on share-based payment awards, as previously required, or to recognize forfeitures as they occur. We have elected to recognize forfeitures as they occur. We evaluate the assumptions used to value our awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand. Estimates for projected 12-month demand are generally based on the average shipments of the prior three-month period, which are then annualized to adjust for any potential seasonality in our business. The estimated 12-month demand is compared to our most recently developed sales forecast to further reconcile the 12-month demand estimate. Management reviews and adjusts the estimates as appropriate based on specific situations. For example, demand can be adjusted up for new products for which historic sales are not representative of future demand. Alternatively, demand can be adjusted down to the extent any existing products are being replaced or discontinued. In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. There was no charge to cost of sales for reduced production levels in the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015. 33 Table of Contents Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have provided valuation allowances for certain of our deferred tax assets, including state net operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credits and state tax credits, where it is more likely than not that some portion, or all of such assets, will not be realized. At June 30, 2016 , the valuation allowances totaled $199.9 million. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At June 30, 2016 , our deferred tax asset, net of valuation allowances, was $68.7 million. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under IRS audit for fiscal years 2011 and 2012. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Senior and Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures We separately account for the liability and equity components of our senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized. This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price triggers or other contingent conversion features have been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and have adopted an accounting policy to settle the principal amount of the senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion prices per share which were $ 65.56 and $ 24.13 for our senior and junior subordinated convertible debentures, respectively, at June 30, 2016 and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future. Contingencies In the ordinary course of our business, we are exposed to various liabilities as a result of contracts, product liability, customer claims and other matters. Additionally, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant. Consequently, we could incur uninsured liability in any of those actions. We also periodically receive notifications from various third parties alleging infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights, or from customers requesting reimbursement for various costs. With respect to pending legal actions to which we are a party and other claims, although the outcomes are generally not determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Litigation and disputes relating to the semiconductor industry are not uncommon, and we are, from time to time, subject to such litigation and disputes. As a result, no assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation or disputes in the future. We accrue for claims and contingencies when losses become probable and reasonably estimable. As of the end of each applicable reporting period, we review each of our matters and, where it is probable that a liability has been or will be incurred, we accrue for all probable and reasonably estimable losses. Where we can reasonably estimate a range of losses we may incur regarding such a matter, we record an accrual for the amount within the range that constitutes our best estimate. If we can reasonably estimate a range but no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other, we use the amount that is the low end of such range. 34 Table of Contents Results of Continuing Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended June 30, 2016 2015 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 56.4 42.1 Gross profit 43.6 57.9 Research and development 18.5 15.9 Selling, general and administrative 19.7 12.5 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 10.0 6.5 Special charges, net 2.8 0.3 Operating (loss) income (7.4 )% 22.7 % Net Sales We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and sale of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of our SuperFlash and other technologies. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of markets, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be typically provided by letters of credit. Our net sales for the three months ended June 30, 2016 were $799.4 million, an increase of 43.4% from the previous quarter's net sales of $557.6 million, and an increase of 49.7% from net sales of $534.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in net sales in the quarter ended June 30, 2016 over the previous quarter was due primarily to our acquisition of Atmel and also by growth in our historical business driven by general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. The increase in net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three months ended June 30, 2015 was due primarily to our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel, and also by growth in our historical business driven by general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. Average selling prices for our semiconductor products were down approximately 1% for the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 over the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. The average selling price per unit was primarily impacted by the mix of our products sold and overall semiconductor market conditions. The number of units of our semiconductor products sold was up approximately 53% for the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 over the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. The unit volumes were primarily impacted by our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel and overall semiconductor market conditions. Key factors related to the amount of net sales during the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 include: our acquisition of Atmel which closed on April 4, 2016; our acquisition of Micrel which closed on August 3, 2015; global economic conditions in the markets we serve; semiconductor industry conditions; our new product offerings that have increased our served available market; customers' increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions; inventory holding patterns of our customers; increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products; and continued market share gains in the segments of the markets we address. 35 Table of Contents Net sales by product line for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, (unaudited) 2016 % 2015 % Microcontrollers $ 498,310 62.3 $ 348,170 65.2 Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products 212,335 26.6 127,055 23.8 Memory products 45,914 5.7 31,773 5.9 Technology licensing 20,588 2.6 23,263 4.4 Multi-market and other 22,264 2.8 3,691 0.7 Total sales $ 799,411 100.0 % $ 533,952 100.0 % Microcontrollers Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 62.3 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to approximately 65.2 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2015 . Net sales of our microcontroller products increased approximately 43.1% in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . This sales increase was driven primarily by our acquisition of Atmel, market-share gains and general economic and semiconductor industry conditions in the end markets we serve including the consumer, automotive, industrial control, communications and computing markets. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, moderate pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have in the past been able to, and expect in the future to be able to, moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. Analog, Interface, Mixed Signal and Timing Products Sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products accounted for approximately 26.6 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to approximately 23.8 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2015 . Net sales of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products increased approximately 67.1% in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . This sales increase was driven primarily by our acquisitions of Micrel and Atmel and market share gains achieved within the analog, interface, mixed signal and timing market. Analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider a majority of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing business will experience price fluctuations driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products will increase over time. 36 Table of Contents Memory Products Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 5.7 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to approximately 5.9 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2015 . Net sales of our memory products increased approximately 44.5% in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in net sales of our memory products over these periods was driven primarily by our acquisition of Atmel. Memory product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our memory products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. Technology Licensing Technology licensing revenue includes a combination of royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies and fees for engineering services. Technology licensing accounted for approximately 2.6 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to approximately 4.4 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2015 . Net sales related to our technology licensing decreased approximately 11.5% in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . Revenue from technology licensing can fluctuate over time based on the production activities of our licensees as well as general economic and semiconductor industry conditions. Multi-Market and Other Our Multi-Market and Other (MMO) product line consists of manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific IC's (ASIC's), complex programmable logic devices (CPLD's), and aerospace products. Revenue from this product line accounted for approximately 2.8 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to approximately 0.7 % of our net sales for the three-month period ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in net sales in our MMO product line over these periods was primarily driven by our acquisition of Atmel. Distribution Distributors accounted for approximately 56.0% of our net sales in the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 and approximately 52.2% of our net sales in the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advance notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. At June 30, 2016 , our distributors maintained 32 days of inventory of our products which was flat compared to the days of inventory at our distributors at March 31, 2016 . Over the past five fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 27 days and 47 days. We do not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors will materially impact our net sales, due to the fact that we recognize revenue based on sell-through for the vast majority of our distributors. 37 Table of Contents Sales by Geography Sales by geography for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, (unaudited) 2016 % 2015 % Americas $ 142,675 17.9 $ 104,544 19.6 Europe 182,465 22.8 114,678 21.5 Asia 474,271 59.3 314,730 58.9 Total sales $ 799,411 100.0 % $ 533,952 100.0 % Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 85% of our total net sales in the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 compared to 84% in the three month period ended June 30, 2015 . Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. dollar denominated. Sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our customers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. Gross Profit Our gross profit was $ 348.5 million in the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 and $ 309.0 million in the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 43.6% in the three -month period ended June 30, 2016 and 57.9% in the three -month period ended June 30, 2015 . The most significant factors affecting our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this Form 10-Q were: charges of approximately $91.5 million in the three-month period ended June 30, 2016 related to the recognition of acquired inventory at fair value as a result of our acquisitions which increased the value of our acquired inventory and subsequently increased our cost of sales and reduced our gross margins when the related revenue was recognized; for each of the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and June 30, 2015 , inventory write-downs being higher than the gross margin impact of sales of inventory that was previously written down; and fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing. Other factors that impacted our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this Form 10-Q include: continual cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing, such as new manufacturing technologies and more efficient manufacturing techniques; and lower depreciation as a percentage of cost of sales. We adjust our wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions. When production levels are below normal capacity, we charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity. During each of the three-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015, our wafer fabrication facilities and assembly and test facilities operated at normal capacity levels, which we measure as a percentage of the capacity of the installed equipment. We operate an assembly and test facility in Thailand and, as a result of our acquisition of Atmel, we acquired a test facility in Calamba, Philippines. 38 Table of Contents The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabrication facilities impact our gross margins. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 micron to 1.0 micron processes. Our wafer fabrication facility located in Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) predominantly utilizes our 0.22 micron to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. Substantially all of our production in Fab 2 and Fab 4 has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report. We consider normal capacity at Fab 2 and Fab 4 to be 90% to 95%. As a result of our acquisition of Atmel, we acquired a 6-inch wafer fabrication facility in Colorado Springs, Colorado (Fab 5) that currently utilizes processes between 0.25 micron and 1.0 micron. We consider normal capacity at Fab 5 to be 70% to 75%. Our overall inventory levels were $ 518.4 million at June 30, 2016 , compared to $ 306.8 million at March 31, 2016 . We maintained 105 days of inventory on our balance sheet at June 30, 2016 compared to 110 days of inventory at March 31, 2016 . The primary reason for the increase in our inventory levels at June 30, 2016 compared to March 31, 2016 is an additional $209.7 million of inventory from our acquisition of Atmel, including approximately $80.9 million of remaining acquired inventory fair value mark-up. We expect our days of inventory levels in the September 2016 quarter to be flat to down 4 days from the June 2016 levels, excluding the impact from the sell through of acquired inventory fair value mark-up. We believe our existing level of inventory will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and provide strong delivery performance to our customers. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall product mix of microcontroller, analog, interface, mixed signal and timing products, memory products and technology licensing revenue and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve. During the three months ended June 30, 2016 , approximately 43% of our assembly requirements were performed in our Thailand facilities compared to approximately 56% during the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The percentage of our assembly work that is performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry, our internal capacity capabilities and our acquisition activities. Third-party contractors located primarily in Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations. During the three months ended June 30, 2016 , approximately 63% of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand and Philippines facilities compared to approximately 89% during the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The primary reasons for the percentage reduction in the assembly and test operations performed internally in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the same period last year are our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel, which companies outsourced most of these activities. Over time, we intend to migrate a portion of the outsourced assembly and test activities from our Atmel and Micrel acquisitions to our Thailand and Philippines facilities. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our internal facilities provide us with significant cost savings compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. Approximately 40% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries in each of the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 . Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. Research and Development (R&D) R&D expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 were $147.9 million, or 18.5% of net sales, compared to $84.7 million, or 15.9% of net sales, for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when related to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives. R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. 39 Table of Contents R&D expenses increased $63.2 million, or 74.6%, for the three months ended June 30, 2016 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the increase in R&D costs were additional costs from our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel. R&D expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 were $157.5 million, or 19.7% of net sales, compared to $66.8 million, or 12.5% of net sales, for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales force and field applications engineers who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $90.7 million, or 135.6%, for the three months ended June 30, 2016 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the increase in selling, general and administrative expenses were additional costs from our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2016 also includes share-based compensation expense of $25.4 million due to the accelerated vesting of outstanding equity awards upon the termination of certain Atmel employees and approximately $14.9 million of acquisition-related legal and professional service expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses fluctuate over time, primarily due to revenue and operating expense investment levels. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets Amortization of acquired intangible assets for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $ 80.2 million , compared to $ 34.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The primary reasons for the increase in acquired intangible asset amortization for the three months ended June 30, 2016 over the same period last year were increased amortization from our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel partially offset by decreased amortization from our customer-related intangible assets from our acquisitions of Standard Microsystems Corporation (SMSC) and ISSC Technologies Corporation (ISSC). Special Charges We incurred special charges related to severance, office closing and other costs associated with our acquisition activity of $22.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2016 (of which $17.0 million was paid during the quarter) and $1.6 million for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Other Income (Expense) Interest income in the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $0.8 million, compared to $5.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The primary reason for the decrease in interest income in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the same period last year relate to lower invested cash balances as we used cash to finance a portion of the purchase price of our acquisition of Atmel. Interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $34.4 million, compared to $24.1 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The primary reason for the increase in interest expense in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the same period last year relates to increased borrowings under our credit facility to partially finance our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel. Other income, net in the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $ 2.0 million , compared to other income, net of $16.9 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 , respectively. The primary reasons for the decrease in other income, net in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the same period last year relates to prior year realized gains of $14.0 million from the sale of marketable equity and debt securities and a gain of $2.2 million on the sale of an equity method investment. 40 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes reflects tax on foreign earnings and federal and state tax on U.S. earnings. We had a negative effective tax rate of 20.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2016 and a negative effective tax rate of 9.1% for the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Our effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2016 is lower compared to the prior year primarily due to acquisition-related expenses. The geographic dispersion of our earnings and losses contributes to the period-to-period changes in our effective tax rates. In fiscal 2016, approximately 20% of our current year earnings from continuing operations before income taxes was generated in the U.S. at a combined federal and state effective tax rate that is higher than our overall effective tax rate. We are also subject to taxation in many other jurisdictions where we have operations. The effective tax rates that we pay in these jurisdictions vary widely, but they are generally lower than our combined U.S. federal and state effective tax rate. Our domestic statutory tax rates for fiscal year 2016 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 were approximately 37%. Our non-U.S. blended statutory tax rates for fiscal year 2016 and the first quarter of fiscal 2017 were much lower than this. The difference in rates applicable in foreign jurisdictions results from a number of factors, including lower statutory rates, historical loss carry-forwards, financing arrangements and other factors. Our effective tax rate has been, and will continue to be impacted by the geographical dispersion of our earnings and losses. To the extent that domestic earnings increase while the foreign earnings remain flat or decrease, or increase at a lower rate, our effective tax rate will increase. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, our fiscal 2005 and later tax returns remain effectively open for examination by the taxing authorities. Microchip is currently under IRS audit for fiscal years 2011 and 2012. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than any final assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. We have significant operations in foreign jurisdictions that have significantly lower effective tax rates than the U.S. Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future. Any expiration of our tax holidays are expected to have a minimal impact on our overall tax expense due to other tax holidays and an increase in income in other taxing jurisdictions with lower statutory rates. Results of Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations include the mobile touch business that we acquired as part of our acquisition of Atmel. The mobile touch business has been marketed for sale since our acquisition of Atmel closed on April 4, 2016 based on management's decision that such business was not a strategic fit for our product portfolio. For financial statement purposes, the net assets and results of operations for this discontinued business have been segregated from those of our continuing operations and are presented in the our condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations and assets held for sale. At June 30, 2016, assets held for sale related to the discontinued operations was $ 18.4 million . Net loss from discontinued operations for the three months ended June 30, 2016 was $ 4.1 million . Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $ 601.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments at June 30, 2016 , a decrease of $ 1,962.8 million from the March 31, 2016 balance. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to $2,747.5 million of cash used for our acquisition of Atmel, net of cash acquired from Atmel and dividend payments of $77.2 million, partially offset by cash generated by operating activities and increases in borrowings under our credit facility. Net cash provided by operating activities was $224.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 , compared to $181.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in net cash provided from operating activities was primarily due to higher net sales in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the prior year resulting primarily from our acquisitions of Atmel and Micrel. 41 Table of Contents During the three months ended June 30, 2016 , net cash used in investing activities was $2,295.7 million compared to net cash used in investing activities of $187.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . The increase in net cash used in investing activities was due primarily to $2,747.5 million of cash consideration, net of $230.3 million of cash and cash equivalents acquired, used to finance our acquisition of Atmel in April 2016, offset by an increase of $607.6 million in cash from our purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the same period last year. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures in the three months ended June 30, 2016 were $18.5 million compared to $33.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Capital expenditures were primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We currently intend to spend approximately $120 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. We expect to finance our capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. Net cash provided by financing activities was $580.0 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $38.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . We made payments on our borrowings under our credit agreement of $602.0 million and $110.0 million during the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Cash received on borrowings under our credit agreement totaled $1,280.0 million and $145.0 million during the three months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. We paid cash dividends to our stockholders of $77.2 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and $72.3 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . Proceeds from the exercise of stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plans were $4.6 million in the three months ended June 30, 2016 and $3.5 million in the three months ended June 30, 2015 . In February 2015, we amended our $2.0 billion credit agreement with certain lenders. As a result of such amendment, the revolving credit facility portion of the agreement was increased from $1,650.0 million to $2,555.0 million and the $350.0 million term loan portion of the agreement was removed. The increase option permitting us, subject to certain requirements, to arrange with existing lenders or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $300.0 million in additional commitments, was also adjusted to $249.4 million. In December 2015, we exercised our increase option in our credit agreement to obtain additional revolving commitments of $219.0 million, bringing our total revolving credit facility commitments to $2,774.0 million. Proceeds of loans made under the credit agreement may be used for working capital and general corporate purposes. At June 30, 2016 , $ 1,922.0 million of borrowings were outstanding under the credit agreement. See Note 17 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our credit agreement. Our total cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries was $562.9 million at June 30, 2016 and $2,559.3 million at March 31, 2016 . Under current tax laws and regulations, if accumulated earnings and profits held by our foreign subsidiaries that U.S. taxes had not previously been provided for were to be distributed to the U.S., in the form of dividends or otherwise, we would be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes. Our balance of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments available for our U.S. operations as of June 30, 2016 and March 31, 2016 was approximately $38.9 million and $5.3 million, respectively. Our U.S. operations and capital requirements are funded primarily by cash generated from U.S. operating activities, which has been and is expected to be sufficient to meet our business needs in the U.S. for the foreseeable future. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies (including borrowings under our credit agreement) with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations in which it is needed. Should our U.S. cash needs exceed funds generated by U.S. operations for any reason, including acquisitions of large capital assets or acquisitions of U.S. businesses, we may require additional funds in the U.S. and would expect to borrow such additional funds under our existing credit facility, pursue other U.S. borrowing alternatives, issue equity securities or utilize a combination of these sources. We consider our offshore earnings to be permanently reinvested offshore. However, we could determine to repatriate some of our offshore earnings in future periods to fund stockholder dividends, share repurchases, acquisitions or other corporate activities. We expect that a significant portion of our future cash generation will be in our foreign subsidiaries. We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At June 30, 2016 , we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. 42 Table of Contents On April 4, 2016, we completed our acquisition of Atmel. Under the terms of the merger agreement executed on January 19, 2016, Atmel stockholders received $8.15 per share consisting of $7.00 per share in cash and $1.15 per share in shares of Microchip common stock. We financed the purchase price of our Atmel acquisition using approximately $2.04 billion of cash held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, approximately $0.94 billion from additional borrowings under our existing line of credit agreement and approximately $487.7 million through the issuance of an aggregate of 10.1 million shares of our common stock. The acquisition price represents a total equity value of approximately $3.47 billion, and a total enterprise value of approximately $3.43 billion, after excluding Atmel's cash and investments on its balance sheet of approximately $39.3 million. The acquisition was structured in a manner that enabled us to utilize a substantial portion of the cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments held by certain of our foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner. Although we believe our determinations with respect to the tax consequences of the acquisition are reasonable, we are regularly audited by the IRS and may be audited by other taxing authorities, and there can be no assurance as to the outcome of any such audit. In May 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of March 31, 2016, we had repurchased 8.6 million shares under this authorization for approximately $363.8 million. In January 2016, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the existing share repurchase program to 15.0 million shares of common stock from the approximately 11.4 million shares remaining under the current authorization. There is no expiration date associated with this repurchase program. As of June 30, 2016 , we held approximately 22.5 million shares of our common stock as treasury shares. On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. A quarterly dividend of $0.3595 per share was paid on June 6, 2016 in the aggregate amount of $77.2 million. A quarterly dividend of $0.3600 per share was declared on August 8, 2016 and will be paid on September 6, 2016 to stockholders of record as of August 22, 2016. We expect the aggregate September cash dividend to be approximately $77.6 million. Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions, our results of operations, and potential changes in tax laws. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations and borrowings under our credit agreement will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may increase our borrowings under our credit agreement or seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, for cash dividends, for share repurchases or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including our level of dividend payments, changes in tax laws and regulations regarding the repatriation of offshore cash, demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. Contractual Obligations There have not been any material changes in our contractual obligations from what we disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016, other than those obligations at June 30, 2016 that resulted from our acquisition of Atmel. The obligations that resulted from our acquisition of Atmel include approximately $50.0 million of operating lease obligations through fiscal year 2032, $21.9 million of inventory purchase commitments through the remainder of fiscal year 2017, approximately $12.7 million of other contractual obligations of which approximately $5.8 million are through the remainder of fiscal year 2017 and approximately $6.9 million are through periods thereafter, and approximately $13.4 million of estimated pension plan benefit payments of which approximately $4.9 million are due through fiscal year 2021 and $8.5 million are due through fiscal year 2026. Estimated pension plan benefit payments beyond 10 years are not practical to estimate. Our acquisition of Atmel also resulted in $193.9 million in uncertain tax positions for which the timing of future cash payments are not practical to estimate. We funded $0.94 billion of the purchase price of our Atmel acquisition from borrowings under our credit facility as further described in Note 17 of our condensed consolidated financial statements. 43 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements (Including Guarantees) As of June 30, 2016, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. In the ordinary course of business, we may provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by us or our subsidiaries. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe we will not be required to make any payments under these guarantee arrangements.