Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2024, our Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2024, and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company committed to making digital technology and artificial intelligence (AI) available broadly and doing so responsibly, with a mission to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We create platforms and tools, powered by AI, that deliver innovative solutions that meet the evolving needs of our customers. We generate revenue by offering a wide range of cloud-based solutions, content, and other services to people and businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience; and designing and selling devices. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; supporting and investing in our cloud-based services, including datacenter operations; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our other products and services; and income taxes. Highlights from the second quarter of fiscal year 2025 compared with the second quarter of fiscal year 2024 included: Microsoft Cloud revenue increased 21% to $40.9 billion. Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 15% driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth of 16%. Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 8% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue growth of 8%. LinkedIn revenue increased 9%. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased 15% driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 19%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 21% driven by Azure and other cloud services revenue growth of 31%. Windows OEM and Devices revenue increased 4%. Xbox content and services revenue increased 2%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 21%. 32 PART I Item 2 Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, influencing how users access services in the cloud and, in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is also correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in cloud and AI infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services. Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (GPUs) and other components. Our devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For the majority of our products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. However, some of our products contain certain components for which there are very few qualified suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Fluctuations in the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies did not have a material impact on reported revenue and expenses from our international operations for the three and six months ended December 31, 2024. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Seasonality Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Fourth quarter revenue is driven by a higher volume of multi-year contracts executed during the period. Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. In August 2024, we announced changes to the composition of our segments. These changes align our segments with how we currently manage our business, most notably bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together in the Productivity and Business Processes segment. Beginning in fiscal year 2025, the information that our chief operating decision maker is regularly provided and reviews for purposes of allocating resources and assessing performance reflects these segment changes. Prior period segment information has been recast to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our business during fiscal year 2025. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 17 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). 33 PART I Item 2 Metrics We use metrics in assessing the performance of our business and to make informed decisions regarding the allocation of resources. We disclose metrics to enable investors to evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution of our products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based on how customers use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). Financial metrics are calculated based on financial results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), and growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last fiscal year. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2025, we made updates to our metrics in connection with the segment changes described above. These changes align our metrics with how we manage and monitor certain businesses. The key change was bringing the commercial components of Microsoft 365 together and creating a new Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth metric. Other changes include combining Windows OEM and Devices into a single revenue growth metric that brings revenue from PC market-driven businesses together, as well as elevating our cloud revenue growth metrics to align to our strategic focus on cloud growth. Commercial Our commercial business primarily consists of Server products and cloud services, Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise and partner services, and Dynamics products and cloud services. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the overall health of our commercial business and include leading indicators of future performance. Commercial remaining performance obligation Commercial portion of revenue allocated to remaining performance obligations, which includes unearned revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods Microsoft Cloud revenue and revenue growth Revenue from Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud, Azure and other cloud services, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, and Dynamics 365 Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage Gross margin percentage for our Microsoft Cloud business Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The metrics primarily reflect growth across our cloud services. Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue growth Revenue from Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, comprising Microsoft 365 Commercial, Enterprise Mobility + Security, the cloud portion of Windows Commercial, the per-user portion of Power BI, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Microsoft 365 Copilot Microsoft 365 Commercial seat growth The number of Microsoft 365 Commercial seats at end of period where seats are paid users covered by a Microsoft 365 Commercial subscription Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue growth Revenue from Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions and other consumer services Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers The number of Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers at end of period LinkedIn revenue growth Revenue from LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions Dynamics 365 revenue growth Revenue from Dynamics 365, including a set of intelligent, cloud-based applications across ERP, CRM, Power Apps, and Power Automate Azure and other cloud services revenue growth Revenue from Azure and other cloud services, including cloud and AI consumption-based services, GitHub cloud services, Nuance Healthcare cloud services, virtual desktop offerings, and other cloud services 34 PART I Item 2 More Personal Computing Metrics related to our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance of our key consumer businesses. Windows OEM and Devices revenue growth Revenue from sales of Windows Pro and non-Pro licenses sold through the OEM channel and sales of first-party Devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC accessories Xbox content and services revenue growth Revenue from Xbox content and services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, third-party disc royalties, and other cloud services Search and news advertising revenue (ex TAC) growth Revenue from search and news advertising excluding traffic acquisition costs (TAC) paid to Bing Ads network publishers and news partners SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 Revenue $ 69,632 $ 62,020 12% $ 135,217 $ 118,537 14% Gross margin 47,833 42,397 13% 93,319 82,612 13% Operating income 31,653 27,032 17% 62,205 53,927 15% Net income 24,108 21,870 10% 48,775 44,161 10% Diluted earnings per share 3.23 2.93 10% 6.53 5.92 10% Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 Revenue increased $7.6 billion or 12% driven by growth in Intelligent Cloud and Productivity and Business Processes. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud. More Personal Computing revenue was relatively unchanged. Cost of revenue increased $2.2 billion or 11% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud, offset in part by Gaming. Gross margin increased $5.4 billion or 13% driven by growth across each of our segments. Gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by More Personal Computing and sales mix shift to higher margin businesses within More Personal Computing, offset in part by Intelligent Cloud. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased to 70% driven by scaling our AI infrastructure. Operating expenses increased $815 million or 5% driven by investments in cloud engineering. Operating income increased $4.6 billion or 17% driven by growth across each of our segments. Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Six Months Ended December 31, 2023 Revenue increased $16.7 billion or 14% driven by growth across each of our segments. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased driven by Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud. More Personal Computing revenue increased driven by Gaming. Cost of revenue increased $6.0 billion or 17% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud. Gross margin increased $10.7 billion or 13% driven by growth across each of our segments. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by Intelligent Cloud, offset in part by More Personal Computing. Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased to 70% driven by scaling our AI infrastructure. 35 PART I Item 2 Operating expenses increased $2.4 billion or 8% driven by investments in cloud engineering and the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition. Operating income increased $8.3 billion or 15% driven by growth across each of our segments. SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 29,437 $ 25,854 14% $ 57,754 $ 51,080 13% Intelligent Cloud 25,544 21,525 19% 49,636 41,538 19% More Personal Computing 14,651 14,641 0% 27,827 25,919 7% Total $ 69,632 $ 62,020 12% $ 135,217 $ 118,537 14% Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 16,885 $ 14,515 16% $ 33,401 $ 28,812 16% Intelligent Cloud 10,851 9,555 14% 21,354 18,463 16% More Personal Computing 3,917 2,962 32% 7,450 6,652 12% Total $ 31,653 $ 27,032 17% $ 62,205 $ 53,927 15% Reportable Segments Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $3.6 billion or 14%. Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $2.8 billion or 15%. Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue grew 16% with Microsoft 365 Commercial seat growth of 7% driven by small and medium business and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user. Microsoft 365 Commercial products revenue grew 13% driven by the Windows Commercial on-premises components of Microsoft 365 suite sales and an increase in transactional purchasing with the launch of Office 2024. Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $142 million or 8%. Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue grew 8% driven by Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriber growth of 10% to 86.3 million with mix shift to Microsoft 365 Basic. LinkedIn revenue increased $392 million or 9% driven by growth across all lines of business Marketing Solutions, Talent Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased $254 million or 15% driven by growth in Dynamics 365, offset in part by a decline in Dynamics on-premises products. Dynamics 365 revenue grew 19% driven by growth across all workloads. Operating income increased $2.4 billion or 16%. Gross margin increased $2.8 billion or 13% driven by growth in Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by scaling our AI infrastructure. Operating expenses increased $390 million or 6% driven by investments in cloud engineering. 36 PART I Item 2 Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $4.0 billion or 19%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $4.0 billion or 21% driven by Azure and other cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 31% driven by demand for our portfolio of services, including 13 points from our AI services which grew 157%. Server products revenue decreased 3% driven by a decrease in transactional purchasing and a prior year comparable that benefited from purchasing ahead of Windows Server 2012 end of support. Enterprise and partner services revenue decreased $25 million or 1% driven by a decline in Industry Solutions, offset in part by growth in Enterprise Support Services. Operating income increased $1.3 billion or 14%. Gross margin increased $1.8 billion or 12% driven by growth in Azure. Gross margin percentage decreased driven by scaling our AI infrastructure. Operating expenses increased $482 million or 10% driven by investments in cloud engineering. More Personal Computing Revenue was relatively unchanged. Windows and Devices revenue increased $149 million or 3%. Windows OEM and Devices revenue increased 4% as commercial inventory builds drove growth in Windows OEM, offset in part by a decline in Devices. Gaming revenue decreased $530 million or 7% driven by a decline in Xbox hardware, offset in part by growth in Xbox content and services. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 29% driven by lower volume of consoles sold. Xbox content and services revenue increased 2% driven by growth in Xbox Game Pass. Search and news advertising revenue increased $390 million or 12%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 21% driven by higher search volume and higher revenue per search. Operating income increased $955 million or 32%, including a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Gross margin increased $898 million or 13% driven by growth in Gaming, Search and news advertising, and Windows and Devices. Gross margin percentage increased driven by sales mix shift to higher margin businesses and improvement in Gaming and Search and news advertising. Operating expenses decreased $57 million or 1% primarily driven by Gaming. Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Six Months Ended December 31, 2023 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $6.7 billion or 13%. Microsoft 365 Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $5.2 billion or 14%. Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud revenue grew 15% driven by seat growth and growth in revenue per user. Microsoft 365 Commercial products revenue grew 7% driven by the Windows Commercial on-premises components of Microsoft 365 suite sales. Microsoft 365 Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $226 million or 7%. Microsoft 365 Consumer cloud revenue grew 7% with continued growth in Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers. LinkedIn revenue increased $771 million or 10% driven by growth across all lines of business Marketing Solutions, Talent Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased $477 million or 15% driven by growth in Dynamics 365, offset in part by a decline in Dynamics on-premises products. Dynamics 365 revenue grew 19% driven by growth across all workloads. 37 PART I Item 2 Operating income increased $4.6 billion or 16%. Gross margin increased $5.1 billion or 12% driven by growth in Microsoft 365 Commercial cloud. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by scaling our AI infrastructure. Operating expenses increased $491 million or 4% driven by investments in cloud engineering and commercial sales. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $8.1 billion or 19%. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $8.1 billion or 22% driven by Azure and other cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 32% driven by demand for our portfolio of services, including 12 points from our AI services which grew 178%. Server products revenue decreased 2% driven by a decrease in transactional purchasing. Enterprise and partner services revenue decreased $41 million or 1% driven by a decline in Industry Solutions. Operating income increased $2.9 billion or 16%. Gross margin increased $3.7 billion or 13% driven by growth in Azure. Gross margin percentage decreased driven by scaling our AI infrastructure. Operating expenses increased $854 million or 9% driven by investments in cloud engineering. More Personal Computing Revenue increased $1.9 billion or 7%. Windows and Devices revenue increased $138 million or 2%. Windows OEM and Devices revenue increased 3% as commercial inventory builds drove growth in Windows OEM, offset in part by a decline in Devices. Gaming revenue increased $1.2 billion or 11% driven by growth in Xbox content and services, offset in part by a decline in Xbox hardware. Xbox content and services revenue increased 24% driven by the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 29% driven by lower volume of consoles sold. Search and news advertising revenue increased $597 million or 10%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 20% driven by higher search volume and higher revenue per search. Operating income increased $798 million or 12%. Gross margin increased $1.9 billion or 15% driven by growth in Gaming, including the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition. Gross margin percentage increased driven by sales mix shift to higher margin businesses and improvement in Search and news advertising and Gaming. Operating expenses increased $1.1 billion or 17% driven by the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition. 38 PART I Item 2 OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 Research and development $ 7,917 $ 7,142 11% $ 15,461 $ 13,801 12% As a percent of revenue 11% 12% (1)ppt 11% 12% (1)ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs and the amortization of purchased software code and services content. Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 Research and development expenses increased $775 million or 11% driven by investments in cloud engineering. Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Six Months Ended December 31, 2023 Research and development expenses increased $1.7 billion or 12% driven by investments in cloud engineering and the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 Sales and marketing $ 6,440 $ 6,246 3% $ 12,157 $ 11,433 6% As a percent of revenue 9% 10% (1)ppt 9% 10% (1)ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 Sales and marketing expenses increased $194 million or 3% driven by investments in commercial sales. Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Six Months Ended December 31, 2023 Sales and marketing expenses increased $724 million or 6% driven by the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition and investments in commercial sales. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2024 2023 2024 2023 General and administrative $ 1,823 $ 1,977 (8)% $ 3,496 $ 3,451 1% As a percent of revenue 3% 3% 0ppt 3% 3% 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, employee severance expense incurred as part of a corporate program, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. 39 PART I Item 2 Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 General and administrative expenses decreased $154 million or 8% driven by Gaming, offset in part by investments in corporate functions. Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Six Months Ended December 31, 2023 General and administrative expenses increased $45 million or 1% primarily driven by investments in corporate functions, offset in part by the impact of the Activision Blizzard acquisition. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended December 31, Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2024 2023 Interest and dividends income $ 600 $ 734 $ 1,281 $ 1,900 Interest expense (594 ) (909 ) (1,176 ) (1,434 ) Net recognized gains (losses) on investments (860 ) 69 (397 ) (38 ) Net losses on derivatives (116 ) (267 ) (454 ) (174 ) Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (153 ) 36 23 (65 ) Other, net (1,165 ) (169 ) (1,848 ) (306 ) Total $ (2,288 ) $ (506 ) $ (2,571 ) $ (117 ) We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, interest rates, equity prices, and credit; to enhance investment returns; and to facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Three Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Three Months Ended December 31, 2023 Interest and dividends income decreased primarily due to lower portfolio balances. Interest expense decreased primarily due to maturities of commercial paper, offset in part by higher finance lease interest expense. Net recognized losses on investments increased primarily due to higher impairments and lower gains on equity investments in the current period. Net losses on derivatives decreased primarily due to lower losses on equity derivatives in the current period. Other, net primarily reflects net recognized losses on equity method investments, including OpenAI. Six Months Ended December 31, 2024 Compared with Six Months Ended December 31, 2023 Interest and dividends income decreased primarily due to lower portfolio balances. Interest expense decreased primarily due to maturities of commercial paper, offset in part by higher finance lease interest expense. Net recognized losses on investments increased primarily due to higher impairments, offset in part by higher gains on equity investments in the current period. Net losses on derivatives increased primarily due to higher losses on equity derivatives in the current period. Other, net primarily reflects net recognized losses on equity method investments, including OpenAI. INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Our effective tax rate was 18% for both the three months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, and 18% for both the six months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. Our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended December 31, 2024 was primarily impacted by tax benefits from tax law changes in the prior fiscal year, including the delay of the effective date of final foreign tax credit regulations, and changes in the mix of our earnings and tax expenses between the U.S. and foreign countries. 40 PART I Item 2 Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate for the three and six months ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations center in Ireland. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published its model rules Tax Challenges Arising From the Digitalisation of the Economy - Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two) which established a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15% for certain multinational enterprises. Many countries have implemented or are in the process of implementing the Pillar Two legislation, which applies to Microsoft beginning in fiscal year 2025. While we do not currently estimate a material impact to our consolidated financial statements, we continue to monitor the impact as countries implement legislation and the OECD provides additional guidance. Uncertain Tax Positions We remain under audit by the IRS for tax years 2014 to 2017. With respect to the audit for tax years 2004 to 2013, on September 26, 2023, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustment (NOPAs) from the IRS. The primary issues in the NOPAs relate to intercompany transfer pricing. In the NOPAs, the IRS is seeking an additional tax payment of $28.9 billion plus penalties and interest. As of December 31, 2024, we believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We disagree with the proposed adjustments and will vigorously contest the NOPAs through the IRSs administrative appeals office and, if necessary, judicial proceedings. We do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our income tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2024, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolution of each of these audits is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA), for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $71.6 billion and $75.5 billion as of December 31, 2024 and June 30, 2024, respectively. Equity and other investments were $15.6 billion and $14.6 billion as of December 31, 2024 and June 30, 2024, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. 41 PART I Item 2 Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, common and preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Cash from operations increased $7.0 billion to $56.5 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to an increase in cash received from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees and cash used to pay income taxes. Cash used in financing increased $32.4 billion to $27.8 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to $6.7 billion in cash used for repayments of debt, net of proceeds in the current period compared to $23.6 billion in proceeds from the issuance of debt, net of repayments in the prior period. Cash used in investing decreased $42.1 billion to $29.3 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2024, primarily due to a $63.0 billion decrease in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of cash acquired, and purchases of intangible and other assets, offset in part by an $11.1 billion increase in additions to property and equipment and an $8.5 billion decrease in cash from net investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Debt Proceeds We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 10 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include Software Assurance (SA) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service. 42 PART I Item 2 The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2024: (In millions) Three Months Ending March 31, 2025 $ 23,167 June 30, 2025 13,764 September 30, 2025 5,835 December 31, 2025 2,742 Thereafter 2,537 Total $ 48,045 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Refer to Note 12 Unearned Revenue of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Material Cash Requirements and Other Obligations Income Taxes As a result of the TCJA, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously subject to U.S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. As of December 31, 2024, our eighth transition tax installment of $4.4 billion is short-term and payable in the first quarter of fiscal year 2026. Share Repurchases For the six months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, we repurchased 15 million shares and 18 million shares of our common stock for $6.3 billion and $6.4 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase program. All repurchases were made using cash resources. As of December 31, 2024, $4.0 billion remained of our $60 billion share repurchase program. Refer to Note 15 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Dividends For the six months ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, our Board of Directors declared dividends totaling $12.3 billion and $11.1 billion, respectively. We intend to continue returning capital to shareholders in the form of dividends, subject to declaration by our Board of Directors. Refer to Note 15 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings and our investments in AI infrastructure and training. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 43 PART I Item 2 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and could have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We have critical accounting estimates in the areas of revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, legal and other contingencies, income taxes, and business combinations valuation of intangible assets. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Judgment is required to determine the standalone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP. Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers. Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented. Impairment of Investment Securities We review debt investments quarterly for credit losses and impairment. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. In addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. 44 PART I Item 2 Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a periodic basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 45 PART I Item 2 Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Business Combinations Valuation of Intangible Assets Accounting for business combinations requires significant judgments when allocating the purchase price to the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Determination of fair value involves estimates and assumptions which can be complex, most notably with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates used in the valuation of intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of projected cash flows, useful lives, and discount rates. While managements estimates of fair value are based on assumptions that are believed to be reasonable, these assumptions are inherently uncertain as they pertain to forward-looking views of our business and market conditions. The judgments made in this valuation process could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 46 PART I Item 3, 4