Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, and our financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). OVERVIEW Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. Our strategy is to build best-in-class platforms and productivity services for an intelligent cloud and an intelligent edge infused with artificial intelligence. We develop, license, and support a wide range of software products, services, and devices that deliver new opportunities, greater convenience, and enhanced value to peoples lives. Our platforms and tools help drive small business productivity, large business competitiveness, and public-sector efficiency. They also support new startups, improve educational and health outcomes, and empower human ingenuity. We generate revenue by licensing and supporting an array of software products, by offering a wide range of cloud-based and other services to consumers and businesses, by designing, manufacturing, and selling devices that integrate with our cloud-based services, and by delivering relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our products and services; datacenter costs in support of our cloud-based services; and income taxes. Highlights from the first quarter of fiscal year 2018 included: Commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate* reached $20.4 billion. Office Commercial revenue increased 10%, driven by Microsoft Office 365 commercial revenue growth of 42%. Office Consumer revenue increased 12%, and Office 365 consumer subscribers increased to 28.0 million. Microsoft Dynamics revenue increased 13%, driven by Dynamics 365 revenue growth of 69%. LinkedIn contributed revenue of $1.1 billion. Server products and cloud services revenue increased 17%, driven by Microsoft Azure revenue growth of 90%. Enterprise Services revenue increased 1%, driven by higher revenue from Premier Support Services, offset in part by a decline in revenue from custom support agreements. Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing (Windows OEM) revenue increased 4%, ahead of the overall PC market. 37 PART I Item 2 Windows Commerc ial revenue increased 7 %, driven by multi-year agreement revenue growth . Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 15%, driven by higher revenue per search and search volume. Microsoft Surface revenue increased 12%, driven by sales of the new Surface Laptop. Gaming revenue increased 1%, driven by Xbox software and services revenue growth of 21%, offset in part by lower Xbox hardware revenue. * Commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate is calculated by multiplying revenue for the last month of the quarter by twelve for Office 365 commercial, Azure, Dynamics 365, and other cloud properties. We adopted the new accounting standards for revenue recognition and leases effective July 1, 2017. These new standards had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal year 2018, our financial results reflect adoption of the standards with prior periods restated accordingly. Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. On December 8, 2016, we completed our acquisition of LinkedIn Corporation for a total purchase price of $27.0 billion. LinkedIn has been included in our consolidated results of operations since the date of acquisition. Refer to Note 8 Business Combinations in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, and influence how users access services in the cloud, and in some cases, the users choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing environment. The investments we are making in infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. Microsoft competes for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow ones career across many different products and businesses, and competitive compensation and benefits. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies throughout fiscal year 2017 negatively impacted reported revenue and reduced reported expenses from our international operations. This trend has reversed in fiscal year 2018 and foreign currencies strengthening relative to the U.S. dollar have positively impacted our financial results. Refer to Risk Factors (Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Seasonality We expect our revenue to fluctuate quarterly and to be higher in the second and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Second quarter revenue is driven by corporate year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers, and fourth quarter revenue is driven by the volume of multi-year on-premises contracts executed during the period. 38 PART I Item 2 Reportable Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis consistent with our internal management reporting. All differences between our internal management reporting basis and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), along with certain corporate-level and other activity, are included in Corporate and Other. We have recast certain previously reported amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor segment performance. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note 19 Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q). SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages and per share amounts) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2017 2016 Revenue $ 24,538 $ 21,928 12% Gross margin 16,260 14,084 15% Operating income 7,708 6,715 15% Net income 6,576 5,667 16% Diluted earnings per share 0.84 0.72 17% Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Revenue increased $2.6 billion or 12%, driven by growth in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased, driven by the acquisition of LinkedIn and higher revenue from Office. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services. More Personal Computing revenue was relatively unchanged, with lower revenue from phones offset by higher revenue from Search advertising and Surface. Gross margin increased $2.2 billion or 15%, due to growth across each of our segments driven by higher revenue and LinkedIn. Gross margin percentage increased due to margin percentage increase in More Personal Computing and segment sales mix, offset in part by margin percentage decline in Intelligent Cloud. Gross margin percentage included an 8-point improvement in commercial cloud gross margin primarily across Azure and Office 365. Operating income increased $993 million or 15%, primarily due to higher gross margin, offset in part by an increase in sales and marketing expenses and research and development expenses. Operating income included an operating loss of $294 million related to LinkedIn, including $372 million of amortization of intangible assets. Key changes in expenses were: Cost of revenue increased $434 million or 6%, mainly due to growth in our commercial cloud and LinkedIn, offset in part by a reduction in phone and Gaming cost of revenue. Sales and marketing expenses increased $594 million or 18%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses. Research and development expenses increased $468 million or 15%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses and investments in cloud engineering. General and administrative expenses increased $121 million or 12%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses. 39 PART I Item 2 SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2017 2016 Revenue Productivity and Business Processes $ 8,238 $ 6,436 28% Intelligent Cloud 6,922 6,097 14% More Personal Computing 9,378 9,395 0% Total $ 24,538 $ 21,928 12% Operating Income Productivity and Business Processes $ 3,006 $ 2,905 3% Intelligent Cloud 2,137 1,777 20% More Personal Computing 2,565 2,033 26% Total $ 7,708 $ 6,715 15% Reportable Segments Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Productivity and Business Processes Revenue increased $1.8 billion or 28%, driven by LinkedIn and higher revenue from Office. LinkedIn contributed revenue of $1.1 billion, primarily comprised of revenue from Talent Solutions. Office Commercial revenue increased $516 million or 10%, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 commercial, mainly due to growth in subscribers, offset in part by lower revenue from products licensed on-premises, reflecting a continued shift to Office 365 commercial. Office Consumer revenue increased $96 million or 12%, driven by higher revenue from Office 365 consumer, mainly due to growth in subscribers. Dynamics revenue increased 13%, primarily due to higher revenue from Dynamics 365. Operating income increased $101 million or 3%, primarily due to higher gross margin, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Gross margin increased $1.2 billion or 25%, primarily due to LinkedIn and growth in Office. Gross margin percentage decreased due to an increased mix of cloud offerings and LinkedIn, offset in part by gross margin percentage improvements in Office 365 commercial. Cost of revenue included $411 million related to LinkedIn, including $218 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets. Operating expenses increased $1.1 billion or 54%, driven by LinkedIn expenses of $1.0 billion, including $154 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets. Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $825 million or 14%, primarily due to higher revenue from server products and cloud services. Server products and cloud services revenue increased $807 million or 17%, driven by Azure revenue growth of 90% and server products licensed on-premises revenue growth of 2%. Enterprise Services revenue increased 1% , driven by higher revenue from Premier Support Services, offset in part by a decline in revenue from custom support agreements. Operating income increased $360 million or 20%, primarily due to higher gross margin, offset in part by higher operating expenses. Gross margin increased $434 million or 10%, driven by growth in server products and cloud services revenue and cloud services scale and efficiencies. Gross margin percentage decreased due to an 40 PART I Item 2 increased mix of cloud offerings and lower Enterprise Services gross margin percentage , offset in part by improvement in Azure gross margin percent age . Operating expenses increased $74 million or 3%, driven by investments in commercial sales capacity and cloud engineering. More Personal Computing Revenue was relatively unchanged, with lower revenue from phones offset by higher revenue from Search advertising and Surface. Windows revenue was relatively unchanged, with growth in Windows OEM and Windows Commercial revenue offset by a decline in patent licensing revenue. Windows OEM revenue increased 4%. Windows OEM Pro revenue grew 7%, outperforming the commercial PC market, primarily due to a higher mix of premium licenses sold. Windows OEM non-Pro revenue declined 1%, in line with the consumer PC market. Windows Commercial revenue increased 7%, driven by multi-year agreement revenue growth. Search advertising revenue increased $210 million or 15%. Search advertising revenue, excluding traffic acquisition costs, increased 15%, primarily driven by growth in Bing, due to higher revenue per search and search volume. Surface revenue increased $113 million or 12%, driven by sales of the new Surface Laptop. Gaming revenue increased 1%, primarily due to higher revenue from Xbox software and services, offset in part by lower Xbox hardware revenue. Xbox software and services revenue increased 21%, driven by a higher volume of Xbox Live transactions, offset in part by a decline in revenue per transaction. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 48%, mainly due to a decline in volume of consoles sold and lower prices of consoles sold. Phone revenue decreased $315 million. Operating income increased $532 million or 26%, primarily due to higher gross margin. Gross margin increased $494 million or 10%, driven by growth in Gaming, Search advertising, Surface, and Windows. Gross margin percentage increased due to gross margin percentage improvements across Gaming, Surface, Windows, and Search advertising and favorable sales mix. Operating expenses decreased slightly, driven by Windows and Gaming marketing expenses in the prior year and a reduction in phone expenses. OPERATING EXPENSES Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2017 2016 Research and development $ 3,574 $ 3,106 15% As a percent of revenue 15% 14% 1ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, and the amortization of purchased software code and services content. Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Research and development expenses increased $468 million or 15%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses and investments in cloud engineering. Expenses included $345 million related to LinkedIn. 41 PART I Item 2 Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2017 2016 Sales and marketing $ 3,812 $ 3,218 18% As a percent of revenue 16% 15% 1ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Sales and marketing expenses increased $594 million or 18%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses of $554 million, including $154 million of amortization of acquired intangible assets. General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended September 30, Percentage Change 2017 2016 General and administrative $ 1,166 $ 1,045 12% As a percent of revenue 5% 5% 0ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, severance expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 General and administrative expenses increased $121 million or 12%, primarily due to LinkedIn expenses of $132 million. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income (expense), net were as follows: (In millions) Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Dividends and interest income $ 473 $ 293 Interest expense (672 ) (437 ) Net recognized gains on investments 573 405 Net losses on derivatives (50 ) (94 ) Net losses on foreign currency remeasurements (9 ) (40 ) Other, net (39 ) (15 ) Total $ 276 $ 112 We use derivative instruments to: manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. Other than those derivatives entered into for investment purposes, the gains (losses) are generally economically offset by unrealized (losses) gains in the underlying available-for-sale securities and (losses) gains on certain balance sheet amounts from foreign exchange rate changes. 42 PART I Item 2 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Dividends and interest income increased primarily due to higher portfolio balances and yields on fixed-income securities. Interest expense increased primarily due to higher outstanding long-term debt. Net recognized gains on investments increased primarily due to higher gains on sales of equity securities. Net losses on derivatives decreased due to gains on equity derivatives in the current period as compared to losses in the prior period and lower losses on commodity derivatives, offset in part by higher losses on foreign currency derivatives. Other, net reflects recognized losses from divestitures and certain joint ventures. INCOME TAXES Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 was 18% and 17%, respectively. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations centers in Ireland, Singapore, and Puerto Rico. The increase in our effective tax rate compared to the prior year was primarily due to changes in the mix of our income before income taxes between the U.S. and foreign countries. Tax contingencies and other income tax liabilities were $13.9 billion and $13.5 billion as of September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively, and are included in other long-term liabilities. This increase relates primarily to current period intercompany transfer pricing. While we settled a portion of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit for tax years 2004 to 2006 during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, and settled a portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 during the first quarter of fiscal year 2016, we remain under audit for those years. We also continue to be subject to examination by the IRS for tax years 2010 to 2016. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents Report for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. As of September 30, 2017, the primary unresolved issue relates to transfer pricing, which could have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements if not resolved favorably. We believe our allowances for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for the unresolved issues and do not expect a final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2017, some of which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolutions of these audits are not expected to be material to our consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $138.5 billion and $133.0 billion as of September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively. Equity and other investments were $5.3 billion and $6.0 billion as of September 30, 2017 and June 30, 2017, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are predominantly U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Of the cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments as of September 30, 2017, $132.1 billion was held by our foreign subsidiaries and would be subject to material repatriation tax effects. The amount of cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments held by foreign subsidiaries subject to other restrictions on the free flow of funds (primarily currency and other local regulatory) was $2.4 billion. As of September 30, 2017, approximately 88% of the cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were invested in U.S. government and agency securities, approximately 3% were invested in U.S. mortgage- and asset-backed securities, and 43 PART I Item 2 approximately 2 % were invested in corporate notes and bonds of U.S. companies, all of which are denominated in U.S. dollars. The remaining cash equivalents and short-term investments held by our foreign subsidiaries were primarily invested in foreign securities. Securities Lending We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our consolidated balance sheets. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash collateral received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Our securities lending payable balance was $203 million as of September 30, 2017. Our average and maximum securities lending payable balances for the three months ended September 30, 2017 were $4.8 billion and $5.6 billion, respectively. Intra-year variances in the amount of securities loaned are mainly due to fluctuations in the demand for the securities. Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as U.S. government securities, domestic and international equities, and exchange-traded mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as foreign government bonds, corporate notes and bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed securities, U.S. government and agency securities, certificates of deposit, and common and preferred stock. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash Flows Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Compared with Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Cash from operations increased $891 million to $12.4 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2017, mainly due to an increase in cash received from customers, offset in part by an increase in cash paid to employees, higher cash paid for interest on debt, and a reduction in unsettled cash equivalent investments in government securities. Cash used in financing was $6.3 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2017, compared to cash from financing of $14.3 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2016. The change was mainly due to a $22.3 billion decrease in proceeds from issuances of debt, net of repayments, and a $1.8 billion decrease in cash used for common stock repurchases, offset in part by a $203 million increase in dividends paid. Cash used in investing decreased $11.6 billion to $6.9 billion, mainly due to an $11.5 billion decrease in cash used for net investment purchases, sales, and maturities. Debt We issued debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 11 Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. 44 PART I Item 2 Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue is comprised mainly of unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs and includes Software Assurance (SA) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally billed upfront at the beginning of each annual coverage period for multi-year agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service. Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of September 30, 2017: (In millions) Three Months Ending, December 31, 2017 $ 10,330 March 31, 2018 7,007 June 30, 2018 4,310 September 30, 2018 1,131 Thereafter 2,126 Total $ 24,904 If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon consumption, as applicable. Share Repurchases For the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, we repurchased 22 million shares and 63 million shares of our common stock for $1.6 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively, through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources. Refer to Note 17 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Dividends Refer to Note 17 Stockholders Equity of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and size to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. Additionally, we have agreed to cover damages resulting from breaches of certain security and privacy commitments in our cloud business. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. These obligations did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements during the periods presented. Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology, as well as continue making acquisitions that align with our business strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud offerings. We have operating and finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development facilities, retail stores, and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. 45 PART I Item 2 Liquidity We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U.S., which is deemed to be permanently reinvested in foreign jurisdictions. As a result, as discussed above under Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments, the majority of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are held by foreign subsidiaries. We currently do not intend nor foresee a need to repatriate these funds. We expect existing domestic cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as regular quarterly dividends, debt maturities, and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. In addition, we expect existing foreign cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash flows from operations to continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities and cash commitments for investing activities, such as material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Should we require more capital in the U.S. than is generated by our operations domestically, for example to fund significant discretionary activities, such as business acquisitions and share repurchases, we could elect to repatriate future earnings from foreign jurisdictions or raise capital in the U.S. through debt or equity issuances. These alternatives could result in higher effective tax rates, increased interest expense, or dilution of our earnings. We have borrowed funds domestically and continue to believe we have the ability to do so at reasonable interest rates. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs, contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Revenue Recognition Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. Judgment is required to determine the level of integration and interdependency between individual components of cloud services. This determination influences whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service and recognized over time. Judgment is required to determine the stand-alone selling price (SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA, or software updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a discount that needs to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP. Due to the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our portfolio of customers. Our products are generally sold with a right of return and we may provide other credits or incentives, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. 46 PART I Item 2 The new standard related to revenue recognition had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 1 Accounting Policies in the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q) for further discussion. Impairment of Investment Securities We review investments quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed-income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 47 PART I Item 2 Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized on our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or market. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the purchase and production of inventories. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue. 48 PART I Item 3