ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITIONAND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The following discussion focuses on the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Similar discussion of the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 22 Overview Currently, our development and commercialization efforts are focused primarily on automotive lidar and advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) markets where we can deliver safe mobility at the speed of life. Our integrated solution combines our lidar sensors, including our MEMS-based dynamic-range and flash-based short/mid-range, with perception software, to be integrated on our custom ASIC, targeted for sale to premium automotive OEMs and Tier 1 automotive suppliers. Although automotive lidar is our priority now, we have developed solutions for Augmented Reality, Interactive Displays, and Consumer Lidars. In the recent past, our strategy had been to sell AR displays or components, Interactive Displays, or Consumer Lidars to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and original design manufacturers (ODMs) for incorporation into their products. We have incurred substantial losses since inception and expect to incur a significant loss during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales and licensing activities. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available or that, if available, it will be available on terms acceptable to us on a timely basis. We cannot be certain that we will succeed in commercializing our technology or products. Key accounting policies and estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that materially affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on a continuous basis. We base our estimates on historical data, terms of existing contracts, our evaluation of trends in the consumer display and 3D sensing industries, information provided by our current and prospective customers and strategic partners, information available from other outside sources and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results form the basis for making judgments regarding the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following key accounting policies require significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. 23 Business combination Our business combination is accounted for under the acquisition method. We allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of the underlying net assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the purchase consideration is included in bargain purchase gain in the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Intangible assets Our intangible assets consist of acquired technology from the January 2023 Ibeo asset purchase and purchased patents. The estimated fair value of acquired technology was calculated through the income approach using the multi-period excess earnings and relief from royalty methodologies. The intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated period of benefit, ranging from one to seventeen years. Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of their carrying values to the projected undiscounted net cash flows associated with the related intangible assets or group of assets over their remaining lives. Measurement of an impairment loss for our intangible assets is based on the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value. Share-based compensation We issue share-based compensation to employees in the form of stock options, restricted stock units (RSUs), and performance stock units (PSUs). We account for the share-based awards by recognizing the fair value of share-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the service period of the award, net of estimated forfeitures. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value of RSUs and non-executive PSUs is determined by the closing price of our common stock on the grant date or the period end date for the awards that are being measured by the service inception date. For performance-based awards, expense is recognized when it is probable the performance criteria will be achieved. If the likelihood becomes improbable that the performance criteria will be achieved, the expense is reversed. Executive PSUs that have market-based performance criteria are valued using a binomial option pricing model using the following inputs: stock price, volatility, and risk-free interest rates. Changes in estimated inputs or using other option valuation methods may result in materially different option values and share-based compensation expense. Leases Significant judgment may be required when determining whether a contract contains a lease, the length of the lease term, the allocation of the consideration in a contract between lease and non-lease components, and the determination of the discount rate included in our office lease. We review the underlying objective of each contract, the terms of the contract, and consider our current and future business conditions when making these judgments. Results of Operations YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2023 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022. Revenue 2023 2022 $ change % change (In thousands) Revenue $ 7,259 $ 664 6,595 993.2 Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services are transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. We recognize revenue either at a point in time, or over time, depending upon the characteristics of the individual contract. If control of the deliverable(s) transfers over time, the revenue is recognized in proportion to the transfer of control. If control passes to the customer only upon completion and transfer of the asset, revenue is recognized at the completion of the contract. In April 2017, we signed a contract with Microsoft Corporation to develop an LBS display system; the contract terminated effective December 31,2023. Under the agreement, we received an upfront payment of $10.0 million. In March 2020, Microsoft took over production of components that we had been producing for them. As a result, beginning in March 2020, we earned a royalty on each component shipped approximately equal to the gross profit we would have earned if we had continued to produce and ship the components. The increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to the recognition of the remaining $4.6 million of revenue as we believe the likelihood of further deliveries under the contract is remote. We do not expect to recognize any further revenue in connection with this contract. The remaining increase in revenue during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 compared to the prior year was primarily a result of customer contracts assumed in connection with our January 2023 acquisition of assets from Ibeo. The revenue backlog during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 was $3.1 million as compared to $0.0 million in 2022. 24 Cost of revenue % of % of 2023 revenue 2022 revenue $ change % change (In thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,772 38.2 $ 100 n/a $ 2,672 2,672.0 Cost of revenue includes the direct and allocated indirect costs of products and services sold to customers. Direct costs include labor, materials, reserves for estimated warranty expenses, and other costs incurred directly, or charged to us by our contract manufacturers, in the manufacture of these products. Indirect costs include labor, overhead, and other costs associated with operating our manufacturing capabilities. Overhead includes the costs of procuring, inspecting and storing material, facility and other costs, and is allocated to cost of revenue based on the proportion of indirect labor which supported revenue activities. Cost of revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period, depending on the product mix and volume, the level of overhead expense and the volume of direct material purchased. The increase in cost of revenue for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets obtained in the acquisition of Ibeo assets of $1.4 million. The increase in 2023 was also driven by materials and labor associated with the corresponding increase in revenue this year. Research and development expense 2023 2022 $ change % change (In thousands) Research and development expense $ 56,707 $ 30,413 $ 26,294 86.5 Research and development expense consists of compensation related costs of employees and contractors engaged in internal research and product development activities, direct material to support development programs, laboratory operations, outsourced development and processing work, and other operating expenses. We assign our research and development resources based on the business opportunity of the available projects, the skill mix of the resources available and the contractual commitments we have made to our customers. We believe that a substantial level of continuing research and development expenses will be required to further develop our scanning technology. The increase in research and development expense during the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to the Ibeo acquisition that resulted in higher salary and benefits expenses as a result of increased headcount of $21.2 million, increased depreciation expenses of $1.6 million, increased facilities and information technology expenses of $1.6 million compared to the prior year. Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense 2023 2022 $ change % change (In thousands) Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense $ 36,689 $ 24,041 $ 12,648 52.6 Sales, marketing, general and administrative expense includes compensation and support costs for marketing, sales, management and administrative staff, and for other general and administrative costs, including legal and accounting services, consultants and other operating expenses. The increase in sales, marketing, general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022 was primarily due to the Ibeo acquisition that resulted in increased salary and benefits expenses as a result of increased headcount of approximately $7.0 million, increased professional services of $1.3 million incurred in connection with the Ibeo acquisition, increased non-cash compensation expense of $1.1 million, increased depreciation expense of $1.1 million and increased purchased labor of $0.7 million. 25 Bargain purchase gain, net of tax 2023 2022 $ change % change (In thousands) Bargain purchase gain, net of tax $ 1,669 $ - $ 1,669 - During the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a bargain purchase gain related to the acquisition of assets from Ibeo. The bargain purchase gain represents the excess of the fair value of the underlying net assets acquired and liabilities assumed over the purchase consideration paid in the transaction. Other income (expense), net 2023 2022 $ change % change (In thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 5,510 $ 799 $ 4,711 589.6 The increase in other income during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 compared to the same period in 2022 is due to a payment of $3.0 million as an incentive to terminate our previous building lease. The remainder of the increase is primarily due to income from investment securities. Income taxes During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized tax expense of $1.1 million and $0.0 million, respectively, mainly related to income in foreign jurisdictions offset, partially offset by a deferred income tax benefit generated by the reduction to a deferred tax liability created as a result of the acquisition of Ibeo in Q2 2023. The change in income tax expense during the year ended December 31, 2023 was largely the result of profitability in foreign jurisdictions related to the Ibeo acquisition. As of December 31, 2023, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $463.1 million for federal income tax reporting purposes. In addition, we have research and development tax credits of $10.1 million. During 2023, $23.1 million federal net operating losses and $0.3 million general business credits expired unused. A majority of the net operating loss carryforwards and research and development credits available to offset future taxable income, if any, will expire in varying amounts from 2024 to 2043, if not previously used. In certain circumstances, as specified in the Internal Revenue Code, a 50% or more ownership change by certain combinations of our shareholders during any three-year period would result in a limitation on our ability to use a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards. We recognize interest accrued and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense. We did not have any unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2023 or at December 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred significant losses since inception. We have funded operations to date primarily through the sale of common stock, convertible preferred stock, warrants, the issuance of convertible debt and, to a lesser extent, from development contract revenues, product sales, and licensing activities. At December 31, 2023, we had $45.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $28.6 million in investment securities. We also have approximately $19.0 million availability left on our existing $35.0 million ATM facility that was put in place in the third quarter of 2023. Based on our current operating plan for 2024 and beyond, we anticipate that we have sufficient cash and cash equivalents to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Operating activities Cash used in operating activities totaled $67.1 million during 2023, compared to $38.0 million in 2022. Cash used in operating activities resulted primarily from cash used to fund our net loss, after adjusting for non-cash charges such as share-based compensation, depreciation and amortization charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in cash used in operating activities were primarily attributed to the Ibeo acquisition that resulted in increased operating expenses to support the development of our lidar sensors. During the second half of 2023, we made a payment of $3.1 million to our contract manufacturing partner in connection with the buildup of MOVIA sensor inventory for direct sales to both automotive and non-automotive customers. Moreover, we expect to make additional payments to this partner totaling approximately $6.2 million over the first six months of 2024 in line with agreed-upon deliveries. Investing activities Cash provided by investing activities totaled $21.8 million in 2023, compared to cash used in investing activities of $38.1 million in 2022. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, we purchased short-term investment securities totaling $41.7 million and sold short-term investment securities totaling $76.7 million. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, we purchased short-term investment securities totaling $90.2 million and sold short-term investment securities totaling $60.6 million. Purchases of property and equipment during the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were $2.0 million and $4.4 million, respectively. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2023, we made payments totaling $11.2 million related to the acquisition of Ibeo assets. We expect to make the final payment related to the Ibeo acquisition of approximately $3.0 million and we expect restricted cash of $3.3 million to be released from escrow to Ibeo during the first quarter of 2024. In 2022, operating funds advanced to Ibeo during the pre-closing period totaling $4.1 million were included in cash used in investing activities. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities totaled $72.4 million in 2023, compared to $14.3 million in 2022. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we made principal payments under long-term debt totaling $0.4 million related to the loan under the Paycheck Protection Program of the 2020 CARES Act (PPP) administered by the Small Business Administration compared to $0.5 million in the prior year. Proceeds received from stock option exercises totaled $0.3 million during 2023 compared to $0.7 million during 2022. 26 The following is a list of our financing activities during 2023 and 2022. In August 2023, we entered into a $35.0 million ATM equity offering agreement with Craig-Hallum. Under the agreement, we are able, at our discretion, to offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $35.0 million through Craig-Hallum. As of December 31, 2023, we had completed sales under such sales agreement, having sold 6.1 million shares for net proceeds of $15.5 million. As of December 31, 2023, we have approximately $19.0 million available under this ATM agreement. In June 2023, we entered into a $45.0 million ATM equity offering agreement with Craig-Hallum. Under the agreement, we were able, at our discretion, to offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $45.0 million through Craig-Hallum. As of June 30, 2023, we had completed sales under such sales agreement, having sold 10.9 million shares for net proceeds of $43.9 million. No further shares are available for sales under this agreement. In June 2021, we entered into a $140.0 million ATM equity offering agreement with Craig-Hallum. Under the agreement we were able, at our discretion, to offer and sell shares of our common stock having an aggregate value of up to $140.0 million through Craig-Hallum. As of December 31, 2022, we had issued 8.3 million shares of our common stock for net proceeds of $81.8 million under this ATM agreement. During the quarter ended March 31, 2023, we issued 5.0 million shares of our common stock for net proceeds of $12.5 million under the agreement. The sales agreement was terminated in June 2023. Our capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, the rate at which OEMs and other potential customers introduce products incorporating our technology and the market acceptance and competitive position of such products. Our ability to raise capital will depend on numerous factors, including the following: Perceptions of our ability to continue as a going concern; Market acceptance of products incorporating our technology; Changes in evaluations and recommendations by any securities analysts following our stock or our industry generally; Announcements by other companies in our industry; Changes in business or regulatory conditions; Announcements or implementation by our competitors of technological innovations or new products; The status of particular development programs and the timing of performance under specific development agreements; Economic and stock market conditions; The cost of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; Our ability to establish cooperative development or licensing arrangements; or Other factors unrelated to our company or industry. If we are successful in establishing OEM co-development arrangements, we may receive full or partial funding for certain non-recurring engineering costs for technology development and/or product development. Nevertheless, we expect our capital requirements to remain high as we expand our activities and operations with the objective of commercializing our technology. 27 Contractual obligations The following table lists our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023 (in thousands): Payments Due By Period Contractual Obligations 5 years Total Open purchase obligations * $ 10,414 $ 320 $ - $ - $ 10,734 Minimum payments under finance leases - - - - - Minimum payments under operating leases+ 2,951 6,819 6,686 8,527 24,983 $ 13,365 $ 7,139 $ 6,686 $ 8,527 $ 35,717 * Open purchase obligations represent commitments to purchase materials, capital equipment, maintenance agreements and other goods used in the normal operation of our business. + Minimum payments under operating leases included payments associated with the forward-starting lease of MicroVision GmbH with a target commencement date of August 1, 2024. Recent accounting pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of significant accounting policies, in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K.