Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements." Our actual results could differ materially from the results described in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Item 1A Risk Factors," beginning below at page 11, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Although we believe that the matters reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. Item 1. BUSINESS We develop and manufacture specialized semiconductor products used by our customers for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our product portfolio comprises general purpose and specialized 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit PIC microcontrollers and 16-bit dsPIC digital signal controllers, most of which feature on-board Flash (reprogrammable) memory technology. In addition, we offer a broad spectrum of high-performance linear, mixed-signal, power management, thermal management, RF, safety and security, and interface devices, as well as serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories and Parallel Flash memories. We also license Flash-IP solutions that are incorporated in a broad range of products. Our synergistic product portfolio targets thousands of applications worldwide and a growing demand for high-performance designs in the automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control markets. Our quality systems are ISO/TS16949 (2002 version) certified. Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. In this Form 10-K, "we," "us," and "our" each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com . We post the following filings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission: our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q our current reports on Form 8-K our proxy statement any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 All of our SEC filings on our website are available free of charge. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. Industry Background Competitive pressures require manufacturers of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based embedded control systems that enable them to: differentiate their products replace less efficient electromechanical control devices reduce the number of components in their system add product functionality reduce the system level energy consumption decrease time to market for their products significantly reduce product cost Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including: automotive comfort, safety and entertainment applications remote control devices 3 Table of Contents handheld tools home appliances portable computers robotics accessories cordless and cellular telephones motor controls security systems educational and entertainment devices consumer electronics power supplies touch screens medical products Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit, often with on board non-volatile program memory, random access memory for data storage and various input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system incorporates application-specific software and may include specialized peripheral device controllers, non-volatile memory components such as EEPROMs, Flash memory and various analog and interface products. The increasing demand for embedded control has made the market for microcontrollers one of the larger segments of the semiconductor market at approximately $15 billion in calendar year 2012. Microcontrollers are currently available in 4-bit through 32-bit architectures. 4-bit microcontrollers are the smallest segment of the microcontroller market and have been in decline for several years. 8-bit microcontrollers remain very cost-effective for a wide range of high-volume embedded control applications and, as a result, continue to represent a significant portion of the overall microcontroller market. 16-bit and 32-bit microcontrollers provide higher performance and functionality, and are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. Our Products Our strategic focus is on embedded control solutions, including: general purpose and specialized microcontrollers development tools analog, interface and mixed signal products memory products technology licensing We provide highly cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration, and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers. Microcontrollers We offer a broad family of proprietary general purpose microcontroller products marketed under the PIC brand name. We believe that our PIC product family is a price/performance leader in the worldwide microcontroller market. We have shipped over 12 billion PIC microcontrollers to customers worldwide since their introduction in 1990. Our PIC products are designed for applications requiring field programmability, high performance, low power and cost effectiveness. Our performance results from a product architecture which features dual data and instruction pathways, referred to as a Harvard dual-bus architecture; a Reduced Instruction Set Computer, referred to as RISC; and variable length instructions; all of which provide significant speed advantages over alternative single-bus, Complex Instruction Set Computer architectures, referred to as CISC. We also offer specialized microcontrollers for automotive networking, computing, wireless communication and wireless audio. With over 1,000 microcontrollers in our product portfolio, we target the 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontroller markets. Digital Signal Controllers (DSC) are a subset of our 16-bit microcontroller offering. Our dsPIC DSC families integrate the control features of high-performance 16-bit microcontrollers with the computation capabilities of Digital Signal Processors (DSPs), along with a wide variety of peripheral functions making them suitable for a large number of embedded control applications. Our dsPIC product family offers a broad suite of hardware and software development tools, software application 4 Table of Contents libraries, development boards and reference designs to ease and expedite the customer application development cycle. With its field-reprogrammability, large selection of peripheral functions, small footprint and ease of use, we believe that our dsPIC DSCs expand our addressable market. We have used our manufacturing experience and design and process technology to bring additional enhancements and manufacturing efficiencies to the development and production of our PIC family of microcontroller products. Our extensive experience base has enabled us to develop our small footprint, flexible, extreme low power, low-cost user programmability feature by incorporating non-volatile memory, such as Flash, EEPROM and EPROM Memory, into the microcontroller, and to be a leader in reprogrammable microcontroller product offerings. Development Tools We offer a comprehensive set of low-cost and easy-to-learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program a PIC microcontroller and dsPIC DSC for specific applications and, we believe, are a key factor for obtaining design wins. Our family of development tools for our PIC and dsPIC products range from entry-level systems, which include an assembler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation capability. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future PIC devices since all of our PIC and dsPIC development tools share the same integrated development environment. Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools that support our standard microcontroller product architecture. Currently, there are approximately 200 third-party tool suppliers worldwide whose products support our proprietary microcontroller architecture. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of both our and third-party development tools by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. To date, we have shipped almost 1.5 million development tools. Analog, Interface and Mixed Signal Products Our analog, interface and mixed signal products consist of several families with over 1,000 power management, linear, mixed-signal, thermal management, RF Linear drivers, safety and security, USB, ethernet, wireless and other interface products. We market and sell our analog, interface and mixed signal products into our microcontroller customer base, to customers who use microcontrollers from other suppliers and to customers who use other products that may not fit our traditional PIC microcontroller and memory products customer base. We market these, and all of our products, based on an application segment approach targeted to provide customers with application solutions. Memory Products Our memory products consist of serial electrically erasable programmable read-only memory (referred to as Serial EEPROMs), Serial Flash Memories, Parallel Flash Memories and Serial SRAM memories. Serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories and Serial SRAM have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small footprint devices. We sell our memory products primarily into the embedded control market, complementing our microcontroller offerings. Technology Licensing Our technology licensing business includes license fees and royalties associated with technology licenses for the use of our SuperFlash technology and fees for engineering services. We license our SuperFlash technology to foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of their advanced microcontroller products, gate array, RF and analog products that require embedded flash. 5 Table of Contents Manufacturing Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe, assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control, resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical techniques (statistical process control, designed experiments and wafer level monitoring), we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and testing profit margin. We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties and the amount of our outsourced manufacturing increased due to our acquisition of Standard Microsystems Corporation (SMSC) which outsourced all of its manufacturing. Our manufacturing facilities are located in: Tempe, Arizona (Fab 2) Gresham, Oregon (Fab 4) Chandler, Arizona (wafer probe) Bangkok, Thailand (wafer probe, assembly and test) Wafer Fabrication Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch wafers and supports manufacturing processes from 0.35 to 5.0 microns. During fiscal 2013, in response to weak global economic conditions, Fab 2 operated below normal capacity levels, which we typically consider to be in the range of 90% to 95% of the actual capacity of the installed equipment. Fab 2's capacity to support more advanced technologies was increased during fiscal 2013 by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment as required. Fab 4 currently produces 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.22 to 0.5 micron manufacturing processes and is capable of supporting technologies below 0.18 microns. Similar to Fab 2, Fab 4 was operating below normal capacity levels during fiscal 2013. A significant amount of additional clean room capacity and equipment in Fab 4 can be brought on line in the future to support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2 and Fab 4 will provide sufficient capacity to allow us to respond to increases in future demand over the next several years with modest incremental capital expenditures. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. We have, in recent years, outsourced a larger portion of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries to augment our internal manufacturing capabilities. As a result of our recent acquisitions, we have become more reliant on outside wafer foundries for our wafer fabrication requirements. In fiscal 2013 and the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, approximately 33% and 38% of our sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. Wafer Probe, Assembly and Test We perform wafer probe, product assembly and testing at our facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand. We also perform a limited amount of wafer probe at our Chandler, Arizona facility. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, approximately 56% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our Thailand facilities and approximately 84% of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand facilities. We use third-party assembly and test contractors in several Asian countries for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. During fiscal 2013, due to weak economic and semiconductor industry conditions, we operated at levels below the total operating capacity of our Thailand facilities. General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our microcontroller, analog and memory products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic, analog and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for our microcontroller, analog, and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully absorb our process research and development costs and to deliver new products 6 Table of Contents to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results. Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and our effective use of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our manufacturing personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a significant work-in-process and finished goods inventory. At the end of fiscal 2013, we owned identifiable long-lived assets (consisting of property, plant and equipment) in the U.S. with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $325.3 million and $189.2 million in other countries, including $171.1 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2012, we owned identifiable long-lived assets in the U.S. with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $314.3 million and $202.3 million in other countries, including $186.1 million in Thailand. At the end of fiscal 2011, we owned identifiable long-lived assets in the U.S. with a carrying value, net of accumulated depreciation, of $330.0 million and $210.5 million in other countries, including $193.7 million in Thailand. Research and Development (R&D) We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current R&D activities focus on the development of general purpose and specialized microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, Serial EEPROM memory, NOR FLASH Memory, Embedded FLASH technologies, RF products, analog, interface and mixed signal products, development systems, user interface products, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing design and process technologies to enable new products and innovative features as well as achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in existing products. In fiscal 2013, our R&D expenses were $254.7 million, compared to $182.7 million in fiscal 2012 and $170.6 million in fiscal 2011. R&D expenses included share-based compensation expense of $22.2 million in fiscal 2013, $14.7 million in fiscal 2012 and $12.9 million in fiscal 2011. Sales and Distribution General We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our field sales engineers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technology environments. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars and workshops in major cities around the world. Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees. 7 Table of Contents Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize us for our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. In fiscal 2013, we derived 53% of our net sales through distributors and 47% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. In fiscal 2012, we derived 59% of our net sales through distributors and 41% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. The decrease in distributor net sales in fiscal 2013 compared to prior periods was driven primarily by our acquisition of SMSC which makes a larger percentage of its net sales to OEM customers rather than through distributors. In fiscal 2011, we derived 58% of our net sales through distributors and 42% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. Our largest distributor, Future Electronics, accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011. No other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011. We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may each terminate our relationship with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. Sales by Geography Sales by geography for fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2013 % 2012 % 2011 % Americas $ 313,574 19.8 $ 290,392 21.0 $ 310,735 20.9 Europe 344,398 21.8 319,881 23.1 334,911 22.5 Asia 923,651 58.4 772,903 55.9 841,559 56.6 Total Sales $ 1,581,623 100.0 $ 1,383,176 100.0 $ 1,487,205 100.0 Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 83% of our net sales in fiscal 2013, approximately 82% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 and approximately 80% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to customers in China, including Hong Kong, accounted for approximately 27% of our net sales in fiscal 2013, approximately 24% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 and approximately 25% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. Sales to customers in Taiwan accounted for approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2013, approximately 15% of our net sales in fiscal 2012 and approximately 13% of our net sales in fiscal 2011. We did not have sales into any other foreign countries that exceeded 10% of our net sales during fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2011. Our international sales are substantially all U.S. dollar denominated. Although foreign sales are subject to certain government export restrictions, we have not experienced any material difficulties to date as a result of export restrictions. The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. However, in recent periods, changes in global economic and semiconductor industry conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and has made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. Backlog As of April 30, 2013, our backlog was approximately $611.0 million, compared to $328.8 million as of April 30, 2012. Our backlog includes all purchase orders scheduled for delivery within the subsequent 12 months. 8 Table of Contents We primarily produce standard products that can be shipped from inventory within a relatively short time after we receive an order. Our business and, to a large extent, that of the entire semiconductor industry, is characterized by short-term orders and shipment schedules. Orders constituting our current backlog are subject to changes in delivery schedules, or to cancellation at the customer's option without significant penalty. Thus, while backlog is useful for scheduling production, backlog as of any particular date may not be a reliable measure of sales for any future period. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied, cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China, Korea and Taiwan. We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis. We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: performance analog, digital and mixed signal functionality memory density low power consumption reliability packaging alternatives We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: ease of use functionality of application development systems dependable delivery, quality and availability technical and innovative service and support time to market price We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates between 2013 and 2031. We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our business. While we intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize product developments, rather than on our patents. Our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful intellectual property protection or any commercial advantage to us. Pursuing violations of our intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex business area involving patent law, trademark law, copyright law and the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We have entered into certain intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies related to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications from third parties asserting patent or other intellectual property rights on certain of our products or technologies. We investigate all such notices and respond as we believe is appropriate. Based on industry practice, we believe that in most cases we can obtain necessary licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, but we cannot assure that all licenses would be on acceptable terms, that litigation would not ensue or that damages for any past infringement would not be assessed. Litigation, which could result in substantial costs to us and require significant attention from management, may be necessary to enforce our patents or other intellectual 9 Table of Contents property rights, or to defend us against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses or other rights, or litigation arising out of infringement claims, could harm our business. Environmental Regulation We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use, discharge and disposal of regulated substances could result in significant future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the storage or use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Employees As of March 31, 2013, we had 8,003 employees. None of our employees are represented by a labor organization. We have never had a work stoppage and believe that our employee relations are good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 30, 2013: Name Age Position Steve Sanghi 57 Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer Ganesh Moorthy 53 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer J. Eric Bjornholt 42 Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Stephen V. Drehobl 51 Vice President, MCU8 and Technology Development Division David S. Lambert 61 Vice President, Fab Operations Mitchell R. Little 61 Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications Richard J. Simoncic 49 Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division Mr. Sanghi has been President since August 1990, CEO since October 1991, and Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University, India. Since May 2004, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of Xyratex Ltd., a storage and network technology company. Since May 2007, he has been a member of the Board of Directors of FIRST (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology). Mr. Moorthy has served as Chief Operating Officer since June 2009, as Executive Vice President since October 2006 and as a Vice President in various roles since he joined Microchip in 2001. Prior to this time, he served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor companies. Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A. in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Mumbai, India. Mr. Bjornholt has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2009. He has served in various financial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995. Mr. Bjornholt holds a Masters degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S. degree in accounting from the University of Arizona. 10 Table of Contents Mr. Drehobl has served as Vice President of the MCU8 and Technology Development Division since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton. Mr. Lambert has served as Vice President, Fab Operations since November 1993. From 1991 to November 1993, he served as Director of Manufacturing Engineering, and from 1989 to 1991, he served as Engineering Manager of Fab Operations. Mr. Lambert holds a B.S. degree in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cincinnati. Mr. Little has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Applications since July 2000. He has been employed by Microchip since 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since September 1993. Mr. Little holds a B.S. degree in Engineering Technology from United Electronics Institute. Mr. Simoncic has served as Vice President, Analog and Interface Products Division since September 1999. From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles. Joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors listed below, in addition to the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; our ability to realize the expected benefits of our acquisition of SMSC; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; availability of raw materials and equipment; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in the mix of products; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; announcements of significant acquisitions; changes in tax regulations and policies in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business; disruptions in our business or our customers' businesses due to terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, public health concerns, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation involving intellectual property, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative 11 Table of Contents effect on the price of our common stock. Adverse global economic conditions, the subsequent economic recovery and uncertainty surrounding the strength of such recovery have caused our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparability between periods less meaningful. Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. The manufacture and assembly of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable CMOS memory and logic devices such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, the performance of our wafer fabrication and assembly and test personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue or future orders, and customer-imposed penalties for failure to meet contractual shipment deadlines. Our operating results are also adversely affected when we operate at less than optimal capacity. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we reduced wafer starts in both Fab 2 and Fab 4 to help control inventory balances in response to a slowdown in global economic conditions. We continued with the reduced level of wafer starts through the first quarter of fiscal 2013. These actions had a negative impact on our gross profit. We further reduced the wafer starts in our fabs in late September 2012 and again during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 which continued to negatively impact our gross profit through the March 2013 quarter. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures, including our acquisition of SMSC. We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. In this regard, on August 2, 2012, we completed our acquisition of SMSC, a publicly traded semiconductor company. The integration process for our acquisitions may be complex, costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not be able to successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies and we may be unable to realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. We may have difficulty in developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company (including SMSC), or in growing the business at the rate we anticipate. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. We may be subject to claims by terminated employees, shareholders of acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. Acquisitions may also result in one-time charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional stock-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. Additionally, we may fund acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our credit agreement, raising debt, issuing shares of common stock, or other mechanisms. While the risks above may be relevant to all of our acquisitions, our acquisition of SMSC was a larger and more complex transaction than our other recent transactions and exposes us to greater risks and liabilities than we have encountered in the past. Further, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to a business that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated. Even following a divestiture, we may be contractually obligated with respect to certain continuing obligations to customers, vendors or other third parties and such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past and expect in the future to enter into joint development agreements or other business or strategic relationships with other companies. These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell any products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. 12 Table of Contents We are dependent on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and are therefore limited in our visibility of future product shipments. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and customer orders that are both received and shipped in that same quarter, which we refer to as turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our backlog visibility on future product shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. Because turns orders are difficult to predict, varying levels of turns orders make our net sales more difficult to forecast. As a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to achieve certain turns orders. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales of our products or reduced market share. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including, but not limited to: the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their own applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to obtain adequate foundry capacity and supplies of raw materials and other supplies at acceptable prices; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to remain price competitive against companies that have copied our proprietary product lines, especially in countries where intellectual property rights protection is difficult to achieve and maintain; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller and proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have remained relatively constant, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary analog, interface and mixed signal products have declined over time. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able to moderate average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by continuing to introduce new products with more features and higher prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience in the future, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary analog products. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely impact our operating results. Our business is dependent on selling through distributors. Sales through distributors accounted for approximately 53% of our net sales in fiscal 2013 and approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2012. We do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. 13 Table of Contents Any future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies or in the U.S. or global credit markets could materially impact the operations of our distributors. Any deterioration in the financial condition of our distributors or any disruption in the operations of our distributors could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, it is possible there will be an oversupply of products and a decrease in sell-through of our products by our distributors which could reduce our net sales in a given period and result in an increase in inventory returns. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by distributors or other channel partners could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to develop and introduce new products on a timely basis that can compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: proper new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing development of new products. In addition, our new products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to design, develop and introduce competitive products on a timely basis, which could adversely impact our future operating results. Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and other companies in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in effecting transitions to advanced process technologies and, consequently, have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . Our technology licensing business is based on our SuperFlash technology. The success of our licensing business will depend on the continued market acceptance of this technology and on our ability to further develop and enhance such technology and to introduce new technologies in the future. To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of sufficient development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products integrating our technology; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support OEM production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. Because our SuperFlash technology is complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technology. There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or lower than expected production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive from them. Our technology license agreements generally include an indemnification clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from intellectual property matters. We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. Any claim, with or without merit, could result in significant legal fees 14 Table of Contents and require significant attention from our management. Any of the foregoing issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors to perform key manufacturing functions for us, and our licensees of our SuperFlash technology also rely on foundries and other contractors. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. We also use several contractors located in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. Our reliance on third party contractors and foundries has increased as a result of our acquisition of SMSC. Although we own the majority of our manufacturing resources, the disruption or termination of any of our contractors could harm our business and operating results. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. Our future operating results could suffer if any contractor were to experience financial, operational or production difficulties or situations when demand exceeds capacity, or if they were unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels, or if due to their locations in foreign countries they were to experience political upheaval or infrastructure disruption. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to timely deliver products or services conforming to our quality standards, we may not be able to qualify additional manufacturing sources for our products in a timely manner or at all, or on terms favorable to us. Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon fabrication processes that are important to us, or fail to adopt advanced manufacturing technologies desired to control costs. In any such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing and production costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Further, use of these subcontractors creates increased opportunities for potential misappropriation of our intellectual property. Certain of our SuperFlash technology licensees also rely on outside wafer foundries for wafer fabrication services. If the licensees were to experience any disruption in supply from the wafer foundries, this would reduce the revenue we receive in our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. We may lose sales if our suppliers of raw materials and equipment fail to meet our needs. Our semiconductor manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have more than one source for these supplies, but there are only a limited number of suppliers capable of delivering various materials and equipment that meet our standards. The materials and equipment necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors in product applications increases. Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change the relationships that we have with our suppliers. This could impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time than expected to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or spare and replacement parts. An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. Our operating results may be impacted by both seasonality and the wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business is subject to seasonally lower revenues in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. However, broad fluctuations in our overall business in recent periods and changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions have had a more significant impact on our results than seasonality, and have made it difficult to assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. The industry has also experienced significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclically by selling proprietary products that cannot be easily or quickly replaced to a geographically diverse base of customers across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. We are exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. We are currently, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, other intellectual property rights, contracts and other matters. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we receive notifications from customers or licensees from time to time who believe that we owe them indemnification or other obligations related to 15 Table of Contents infringement claims made against us, the customers or licensees by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, even if meritless, could result in substantial cost to us and divert our resources. If we are not able to resolve a claim, settle a matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, reengineer our products or processes to avoid infringement, and/or successfully prosecute or defend our position, we could incur uninsured liability in any of them, be required to take an appropriate charge to operations, be enjoined from selling a material portion of our products or using certain processes, suffer a reduction or elimination in the value of our inventories, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. It is also possible that from time to time we may be subject to claims related to the manufacture, performance or use of our products. These claims may be due to injuries or environmental exposures related to manufacturing, a product's nonconformance to our specifications, or specifications agreed upon with the customer, changes in our manufacturing processes, or unexpected end customer system issues due to the interaction with our products or insufficient design or testing by our customers. We could incur significant expenses related to such matters, including, but not limited to: costs related to writing off the value of our inventory of nonconforming products; recalling nonconforming products; providing support services, product replacements, or modifications to products and the defense of such claims; diversion of resources from other projects; lost revenue or a delay in the recognition of revenue due to cancellation of orders and unpaid receivables; customer imposed fines or penalties for failure to meet contractual requirements; and a requirement to pay damages. Because the systems into which our products are integrated have a higher cost of goods than the products we sell, our expenses and damages may be significantly higher than the sales and profits we received from the products involved. While we specifically exclude consequential damages in our standard terms and conditions, certain of our contracts may not exclude such liabilities. Further, our ability to avoid such liabilities may be limited by applicable law. We do have liability insurance which covers certain damages arising out of product defects, but we do not expect that insurance will cover all claims or be of a sufficient amount to fully protect against such claims. Costs or payments we may make in connection with these customer claims may adversely affect the results of our operations. Further, we sell to customers in industries such as automotive, aerospace, and medical, where failure of the systems in which our products are integrated could cause damage to property or persons. We may be subject to claims if our products, or interactions with our products, cause system failures. We will face increased exposure to claims if there are substantial increases in either the volume of our sales into these applications or the frequency of system failures integrating our products. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could result in lost revenue or market opportunities. Our ability to obtain patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights covering our products and manufacturing processes is important for our success. To that end, we have acquired certain patents and patent licenses and intend to continue to seek patents on our technology and manufacturing processes. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive, and patents may not be issued from currently pending or future applications. In addition, our existing and new patents, trademarks and copyrights that issue may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We may be subject to or may ourselves initiate interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, patent offices of a foreign country or U.S. or foreign courts, which can require significant financial and management resources. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Infringement of our intellectual property rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for us. Although we continue to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in our endeavors. Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. However, any downturn in global economic conditions may adversely impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors or suppliers. The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our not being able to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher reserves for doubtful accounts, write-offs for accounts receivable, and higher operating costs as a percentage of revenues. 16 Table of Contents We do not typically have long-term contracts with our customers, but where we do, we may be subject to liability. We do not typically enter into long-term contracts with our customers and we cannot be certain about future order levels from our customers. When we do enter into customer contracts, the contract is generally cancelable at the convenience of the customer. Even though we had approximately 82,000 customers and our ten largest direct customers made up approximately 10% of our total revenue for fiscal 2013, cancellation of customer contracts could have an adverse impact on our revenue and profits. SMSC has a higher concentration of larger customers and we expect the overall percentage of revenue from our top ten customers to increase due to our acquisition of SMSC. We have entered into contracts with certain customers that differ from our standard terms of sale. Further, as a result of our acquisition of SMSC, we inherited certain customer contracts that differ from our standard terms of sale. For several of the significant markets that we sell into, such as the automotive and personal computer markets, our current or potential customers may possess significant leverage over us in negotiating the terms and conditions of supply as a result of their market size and position. For example, under certain contracts we may commit to supply specific quantities of products on scheduled delivery dates, or agree to extend our obligations for certain liabilities such as warranties or indemnification for quality issues or claims of intellectual property infringement. If we are unable to supply the customer as required under the contract, the customer may incur additional production costs, lost revenues due to subsequent delays in their own manufacturing schedule, or quality-related issues. We may be liable for the customer's costs, expenses and damages associated with their claims and we may be obligated to defend the customer against claims of intellectual property infringement and pay the associated legal fees. While we try to limit the number of contracts that we sign which contain such special provisions, manage the risks underlying such liabilities, and set caps on our liability exposure, sometimes we may not be able to do so. In order to win important designs, avoid losing business to competitors, maintain existing business, or be permitted to bid on new business, we may be forced to agree to uncapped liability for such items as intellectual property infringement or confidentiality. Such provisions expose us to risk of liability far exceeding the purchase price of the products we sell under such contracts, the lifetime revenues we receive from such products, or various forms of potential consequential damages. These significant additional risks could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operation and financial condition. We must attract and retain qualified personnel to be successful, and competition for qualified personnel can be intense. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our senior management, engineering, manufacturing and other personnel. The competition for qualified engineering and management personnel can be intense. We may be unsuccessful in retaining our existing key personnel or in attracting and retaining additional key personnel that we require. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to add key personnel could harm our business. The loss of, or any inability to attract personnel, even if not key personnel, if experienced in sufficient numbers could harm our business. We have no employment agreements with any member of our senior management team. Business interruptions to our operations or the operations of our key vendors, subcontractors, licensees or customers, whether due to natural disasters or other events, could harm our business. Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors or customers may be disrupted for reasons beyond our control. These reasons may include work stoppages, power loss, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, public health issues, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive contamination, fire, earthquake, floods, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that our actions will be effective to avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a disaster or other business interruption. In particular, Thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years; however, our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally. There can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to shift production to other facilities on a timely basis, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. If we experienced business interruptions, we would likely experience delays in shipments of products to our customers and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues and profits and the cancellation of orders or loss of customers. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not be enough to compensate us for any losses that may occur and any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of business interruptions could significantly harm our business. Additionally, as described above, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. In the event of customer disruptions, sales of our products may decline and our revenue, profitability and financial condition could 17 Table of Contents suffer. Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline as our licenses are based on per unit royalties. We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2013, approximately 83% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 27% in China. During fiscal 2012, approximately 82% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 24% in China. A strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The market for integrated circuit products in China is highly competitive, and both international and domestic competitors are aggressively seeking to increase their market share. Increased competition in the China market may make it difficult for us to achieve our desired sales volumes in China. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities located near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability in the past. From time to time, Thailand has also experienced periods of severe flooding. There can be no assurance that any future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. We use various foreign contractors for a portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. Substantially all of our finished goods inventory is maintained in Thailand. Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; public health conditions; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in rules and laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection in various jurisdictions; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions in international transport or delivery; difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; and potentially adverse tax consequences. If any of these risks materialize, or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact our operating results. We use forward currency exchange contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our non-U.S. dollar net balance sheet exposures. Nevertheless, in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to the non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business, the value of our non-U.S. dollar transactions can have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, in periods when a foreign currency significantly declines in value in relation to the U.S. dollar, such as past declines in the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, customers transacting in that foreign currency may find it more difficult to fulfill their previously committed contractual obligations or to undertake new obligations to make payments or purchase products. In periods when the U.S. dollar is significantly declining in relation to the British pound, Euro and Thai baht, the operational costs in our European and Thailand subsidiaries are adversely affected. Interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. Any significant disruption to our systems or networks, including, but not limited to, new system implementations, computer viruses, security breaches, facility issues, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our operations, sales and operating results. Such disruption could result in a loss of our intellectual property or the release of sensitive competitive information or supplier, customer or employee personal data. Any loss of such information could harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, and cause us to incur significant costs to remedy the damages caused by the disruptions or security breaches. Additionally, as there has been 18 Table of Contents increased legislation in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere regarding the handling of personal data, including the data of employees and customers, such a failure may result in regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, remediation obligations and litigation. There is also risk that we may be found not to comply with laws or regulations regarding the collection, consent, handling, transfer, or disposal of personal data. Fines and other sanctions may result. From time to time, we have experienced verifiable attacks on our data, attempts to breach our security and attempts to introduce malicious software into our IT systems; however, such attacks have not previously resulted in any material damage to us. Were future attacks successful, we may be unaware of the incident, its magnitude, or its effects. In recent years, we have implemented improvements to our protective measures which are not limited to the following: firewalls, antivirus measures, patches, log monitors, routine backups with offsite retention of storage media, system audits, data partitioning and routine password modifications. There can be no assurance that such system improvements will be sufficient to prevent or limit the damage from any future cyber attack or disruptions. Any such attack or disruption could result in additional costs related to rebuilding of internal systems, defending litigation, responding to regulatory actions, or paying damages. Such attacks or disruption could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations and financial results. Third-party service providers, such as foundries, assembly and test contractors, distributors, credit card processors and other vendors have access to certain portions of our sensitive data. In the event that these service providers do not properly safeguard our data that they hold, security breaches and loss of our data could result. Any such loss of data by our third-party service providers could negatively impact our business, operations and financial results. The occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits, may adversely affect our profitability and liquidity. We have insurance contracts with independent insurance companies related to many different types of risk; however, we self-insure for some potentially significant risks and obligations. In these circumstances, we have determined that it is more cost effective to self-insure certain risks than to pay the high premium costs. The risks and exposures that we self-insure include, but are not limited to certain property, product defects, employment risks, political risks, and intellectual property matters. Should there be a loss or adverse judgment or other decision in an area for which we are self-insured, then our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. We are subject to stringent environmental and other regulations, which may force us to incur significant expenses. We must comply with many federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances used in our products and manufacturing processes. Our failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in fines, suspension of production, cessation of operations or future liabilities. Such environmental regulations have required us in the past, and could require us in the future to buy costly equipment or to incur significant expenses to comply with such regulations. Our failure to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could impact the health of our employees and others and could impact our ability to operate. Such failure could also restrict our ability to ship certain products to certain countries, require us to modify our operations logistics, or require us to incur other significant costs and expenses. There is a continuing expansion in environmental laws with a focus on reducing or eliminating hazardous substances and substances of high concern in electronic products and shipping materials. These and other future environmental regulations could require us to reengineer certain of our existing products and may make it more expensive for us to manufacture, sell and ship our products. In addition, the number and complexity of laws focused on the energy efficiency of electronic products and accessories, the recycling of electronic products, and the reduction in quantity and the recycling of packing materials have expanded significantly. It may be difficult for us to timely comply with these laws and we may not have sufficient quantities of compliant products to meet customers' needs, thereby adversely impacting our sales and profitability. We may also have to write off inventory in the event that we hold inventory that is not saleable as a result of changes to regulations or customer requirements. We expect these risks and trends to continue. In addition, we anticipate increased customer requirements to meet voluntary criteria related to the reduction or elimination of substances of high concern in our products and energy efficiency measures. These requirements may increase our own costs, as well as those passed on to us by our supply chain. Customer demands for us to implement business practices that are more stringent than applicable legal requirements may reduce our revenue opportunities or cause us to incur higher costs. Some of our customers and potential customers are more frequently requiring that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than what is required by applicable laws with respect to workplace and labor requirements, the type of materials we use in our products, environmental matters or other items. To comply with such requirements, we may have to pass these same operating practices on to our suppliers. Our suppliers may refuse to implement these operating practices, or 19 Table of Contents may charge us more for complying with them. The cost to implement such practices may cause us to incur higher costs and reduce our profitability, and if we choose not to implement such practices, such customers may disqualify us as a supplier, resulting in decreased revenue opportunities. Developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain will increase our costs and may require that we hire more personnel. Customer demands and new regulations related to conflict-free minerals may force us to incur additional expenses. As required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012, the SEC released new disclosure and reporting requirements regarding the use of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries in products, whether or not these products are manufactured by third parties. As we implement these new requirements, if it is determined that we are using other than conflict-free minerals, customers may demand us to change the sourcing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices (including our products), even if the costs for acceptable minerals significantly increases and availability is limited. There will likely be additional costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to determining the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for all metals used in our products through the procedures we may implement. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier and we may have to write off inventory in the event that it cannot be sold. Regulatory authorities in jurisdictions into which we ship our products could levy fines or restrict our ability to export products. A significant portion of our sales are made outside of the U.S. through the exporting and re-exporting of products. In addition to local jurisdictions' export regulations, our U.S.-manufactured products or products based on U.S. technology are subject to U.S. laws and regulations governing international trade and exports, including, but not limited to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Export Administration Regulations (EAR), and trade sanctions against embargoed countries and destinations administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Licenses or proper license exceptions are required for the shipment of our products to certain countries. A determination by the U.S. or foreign government that we have failed to comply with these or other export regulations or anti-bribery regulations can result in penalties which may include denial of export privileges, fines, civil or criminal penalties, and seizure of products. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and earnings. Further, a change in these laws and regulations could restrict our ability to export to previously permitted countries, customers, distributors or other third parties. Any one or more of these sanctions or a change in laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The outcome of currently ongoing and future examinations of our income tax returns by the IRS could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities for fiscal 2009 and later. We are currently being audited by the IRS for fiscal 2009 and 2010, and SMSC is currently under IRS audit for fiscal 2011 and 2012. We are subject to certain income tax examinations in foreign jurisdictions for fiscal 2005 and later. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuing examinations will not have an adverse effect on our future operating results. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The future trading price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to: quarterly variations in our operating results or the operating results of other technology companies; general conditions in the semiconductor industry; global economic and financial conditions; changes in analysts' estimates of our financial performance or buy/sell recommendations; changes in our financial guidance or our failure to meet such guidance; any acquisitions we pursue or complete; and actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new products by us or our competitors. 20 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies and that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market fluctuations and other factors have harmed and may harm the market price of our common stock. Some or all of the foregoing factors could also cause the market price of our convertible debentures to decline or fluctuate substantially. We may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or long-lived assets. We review our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on historical experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. Because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. No goodwill or long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2012 or fiscal 2013. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our current or future debt. As a result of our sale of $1.15 billion of principal value 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in December 2007, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we had maintained in the past. In August 2011, we entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement. We borrowed approximately $620 million under such credit agreement to help fund our acquisition of SMSC in August 2012. Our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may need or desire to refinance all or a portion of our debentures or any other future indebtedness and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Conversion of our debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding debentures will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the debentures. Upon conversion, we may satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering cash, shares of common stock or any combination, at our option. If upon conversion we elect to deliver cash for the lesser of the conversion value and principal amount of the debentures, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of our common stock. Upon conversion, we intend to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of the debentures in cash. If the conversion value of a debenture exceeds the principal amount of the debenture, we may also elect to deliver cash in lieu of common stock for the conversion value in excess of the one thousand dollars principal amount (i.e., the conversion spread). There would be no adjustment to the numerator in the net income per common share computation for the cash settled portion of the debentures as that portion of the debt instrument will always be settled in cash. The conversion spread will be included in the denominator for the computation of diluted net income per common share. Any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon conversion of our debentures could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the debentures into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation or changes by the FASB and the SEC. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting standards and practices have occurred in the past and are expected to occur in the future. New accounting pronouncements or a change in the interpretation of existing accounting standards or practices may have a significant effect on our reported financial results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is announced or effective. 21 Table of Contents Potential U.S. tax legislation regarding our foreign earnings could materially and adversely impact our business and financial results. Currently, a majority of our revenue is generated from customers located outside the U.S., and a substantial portion of our assets, including employees, are located outside the U.S. Present U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings for certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, because such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. In recent years, there have been a number of initiatives proposed by the Obama administration and members of Congress regarding the tax treatment of such undistributed earnings. If adopted, certain of these initiatives would substantially reduce our ability to defer U.S. taxes including repealing the deferral of U.S. taxation of foreign earnings, eliminating utilization of or substantially reducing our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and eliminating various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. Changes in tax law such as these proposals could have a material negative impact on our financial position and results of operations. Credit conditions have adversely impacted our holdings of auction rate securities (ARS). At March 31, 2013, $33.8 million of the fair value of our investment portfolio was invested in ARS. With the continuing liquidity issues in the global credit and capital markets since 2008, our ARS have experienced multiple failed auctions and are not liquid. While we continue to earn interest on these investments based on a pre-determined formula with spreads tied to particular interest rate indices, the estimated market value for a portion of these ARS no longer approximates the original purchase value. The fair value of the failed ARS of $33.8 million has been estimated based on market information and estimates determined by management and could change significantly based on market conditions. We evaluated the impairments in the value of these ARS, determining our intent to sell these securities prior to the recovery of our amortized cost basis, which resulted in some of the securities being other-than temporarily impaired and recognized impairment charges on these investments of $0.4 million in fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2012, we recognized a $0.3 million gain on our ARS positions as a gain on redemption at par value of one ARS position offset impairment charges recognized during the year. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or if their credit ratings deteriorate further, we may be required to further adjust the carrying value of the investments through an additional impairment charge to earnings. The majority of our short and long-term investments are in highly rated government agency bonds and corporate bonds. Other than with respect to our holdings of ARS, we have not experienced any liquidity or impairment issues with such investments. However, there can be no assurance that credit market conditions will not in the future adversely affect the liquidity or value of our non-ARS investments. Climate change regulations and sustained adverse climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. Climate change regulations could require us to limit emissions, change our manufacturing processes, obtain substitute materials which may cost more or be less available, increase our investment in control technology for greenhouse gas emissions, fund offset projects or undertake other costly activities. These regulations could significantly increase our costs and restrict our manufacturing operations by virtue of requirements for new equipment. New permits may be required for our current operations, or expansions thereof. Failure to timely receive permits could result in fines, suspension of production, or cessation of operations at one or more facilities. In addition, restrictions on carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gas emissions could result in significant costs such as higher energy costs, and utility companies passing down carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs and renewable portfolio standards. The cost of complying, or of failing to comply, with these and other climate change and emissions regulations could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, any sustained adverse change in climate could have a direct adverse economic impact on us, such as water and power shortages, higher costs for water or energy to control the temperature inside of our facilities. Certain of our operations are located in arid or tropical regions, such as Thailand and Arizona. Some environmental experts predict that these regions may become vulnerable to storms, severe floods and droughts due to climate change. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can interrupt business, we cannot be certain that our plans will protect us from all such disasters or events. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents Item 2. PROPERTIES At March 31, 2013 , we owned the facilities described below: Location Approximate Total Sq. Ft. Uses Chandler, Arizona 415,000 Executive and Administrative Offices; Wafer Probe; R&D Center; Sales and Marketing; and Computer and Service Functions Tempe, Arizona 379,000 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 2); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Gresham, Oregon 826,500 Wafer Fabrication (Fab 4); R&D Center; Administrative Offices; and Warehousing Chacherngsao, Thailand 489,000 Test and Assembly; Wafer Probe; Sample Center; Warehousing; and Administrative Offices Chacherngsao, Thailand 215,000 Assembly and Test Bangalore, India 67,174 Research and Development; Marketing Support and Administrative Offices In addition to the facilities we own, we lease several research and development facilities and sales offices in North America, Europe and Asia. Our aggregate monthly rental payment for our leased facilities is approximately $1.5 million. We currently believe that our existing facilities are suitable and will be adequate to meet our requirements for at least the next 12 months. See page 37 for a discussion of the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. We also periodically receive notification from various third parties alleging infringement of patents, intellectual property rights or other matters. With respect to these pending legal actions to which we are a party, although the outcome of these actions are generally not determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not harm our business and will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject to such litigation. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future. Item 4 . MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "MCHP." Our common stock has been quoted on such market since our initial public offering on March 19, 1993. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low closing prices of our common stock as reported by NASDAQ for our last two fiscal years. Fiscal 2013 High Low Fiscal 2012 High Low First Quarter $37.32 $30.40 First Quarter $41.33 $35.69 Second Quarter $35.73 $31.03 Second Quarter $38.39 $29.60 Third Quarter $33.37 $29.37 Third Quarter $37.09 $30.43 Fourth Quarter $37.32 $32.58 Fourth Quarter $38.42 $35.17 23 Table of Contents Stock Price Performance Graph The following graph and table show a comparison of the five-year cumulative total stockholder return, calculated on a dividend reinvestment basis, for Microchip Technology Incorporated, the Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Stock Index, and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index. Cumulative Total Return March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 March 2011 March 2012 March 2013 Microchip Technology Incorporated 100.00 68.31 95.81 135.12 137.51 141.78 S&P 500 Stock Index 100.00 61.91 92.72 107.23 116.39 132.64 Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 100.00 69.61 107.23 122.10 137.46 133.90 Data acquired by Research Data Group, Inc. ( www.researchdatagroup.com ) On May 17, 2013, there were approximately 316 holders of record of our common stock. This figure does not reflect beneficial ownership of shares held in nominee names. We have been declaring and paying quarterly cash dividends on our common stock since the third quarter of fiscal 2003. Our total cash dividends paid were $273.8 million, $266.2 million and $256.8 million in fiscal 2013, fiscal 2012 and fiscal 2011, respectively. The following table sets forth our quarterly cash dividends per common share and the total amount of the dividend payment for each quarter in fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2012 (amounts in thousands, except per share amounts): 24 Table of Contents Fiscal 2013 Dividends per Common Share Aggregate Amount of Dividend Payment Fiscal 2012 Dividends per Common Share Aggregate Amount of Dividend Payment First Quarter $ 0.350 $ 67,748 First Quarter $ 0.346 $ 65,900 Second Quarter 0.351 68,147 Second Quarter 0.347 66,206 Third Quarter 0.352 68,697 Third Quarter 0.348 66,813 Fourth Quarter 0.353 69,230 Fourth Quarter 0.349 67,259 On May 2, 2013, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.3535 per share, which will be paid on June 4, 2013 to stockholders of record on May 21, 2013 and the total amount of such dividend is expected to be approximately $69.6 million. Our Board of Directors is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend, on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. Please refer to "Item 12 - Security Ownership Of Certain Beneficial Owners And Management And Related Stockholder Matters," at page 48 below, for the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans at March 31, 2013. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA You should read the following selected consolidated financial data for the five-year period ended March 31, 2013 in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Items 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K. Our consolidated statements of income data for each of the years in the three-year period ended March 31, 2013, and the balance sheet data as of March 31, 2013 and 2012, are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The statement of income data for the years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 and balance sheet data as of March 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included herein (in the tables below all amounts are in thousands, except per share data). As further discussed in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, during fiscal 2013, we identified certain amounts of amortization of acquired intangible assets that were incorrectly included within cost of sales. We corrected this presentation in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and have conformed previous periods to the current presentation. We also determined we would separately present amortization of acquired intangible assets within operating expenses rather than including amortization within selling, general and administrative expenses. 25 Table of Contents Statement of Income Data: Year ended March 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net sales $ 1,581,623 $ 1,383,176 $ 1,487,205 $ 947,729 $ 903,297 Cost of sales 743,164 583,882 605,954 412,092 386,409 Research and development 254,723 182,650 170,607 120,823 115,524 Selling, general and administrative 261,471 208,328 222,184 166,338 160,933 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111,537 10,963 12,412 2,279 669 Special charges, net (1) 32,175 837 1,865 1,238 6,434 Operating income 178,553 396,516 474,183 244,959 233,328 (Losses) gains on equity method investments (617 ) (195 ) 157 Interest income 15,560 17,992 16,002 15,325 32,545 Interest expense (40,915 ) (34,266 ) (31,521 ) (31,150 ) (29,440 ) Other (expense) income, net (404 ) (352 ) 1,877 8,679 (4,354 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 152,177 379,695 460,698 237,813 232,079 Income tax provision (benefit) 24,788 42,990 31,531 20,808 (13,508 ) Net income from continuing operations $ 127,389 $ 336,705 $ 429,167 $ 217,005 $ 245,587 Basic net income per common share continuing operations $ 0.65 $ 1.76 $ 2.29 $ 1.18 $ 1.34 Diluted net income per common share continuing operations $ 0.62 $ 1.65 $ 2.20 $ 1.16 $ 1.31 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.406 $ 1.390 $ 1.374 $ 1.359 $ 1.346 Basic common shares outstanding 194,595 191,283 187,066 183,642 183,158 Diluted common shares outstanding 205,776 203,519 194,715 187,339 186,788 Balance Sheet Data: March 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Working capital $ 1,894,759 $ 1,767,988 $ 1,434,667 $ 1,407,579 $ 1,587,144 Total assets 3,851,405 3,083,776 2,968,058 2,516,313 2,405,711 Long-term obligations, less current portion 983,385 355,050 347,334 340,672 334,184 Stockholders' equity 1,933,470 1,990,673 1,812,438 1,533,380 1,490,311 (1) Discussions of the special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 are contained in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. An explanation of the special charges for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 is provided below. The following table presents a summary of special charges for the five-year period ended March 31, 2013: March 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Acquisition related expenses $ 16,259 $ 340 $ 1,865 $ $ 1,574 Legal settlement 11,516 Adjustment to contingent consideration 4,400 (1,000 ) Patent licenses 1,497 1,238 4,000 In-process research and development expenses 860 Totals $ 32,175 $ 837 $ 1,865 $ 1,238 $ 6,434 26 Table of Contents Fiscal 2010 Special Charges Patent Licenses During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, we agreed to the terms of a patent license with an unrelated third party and signed an agreement on July 9, 2009. The patent license settled alleged infringement claims. The total payment made to the third-party in July 2009 was $1.4 million, $1.2 million of which was expensed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and the remaining $0.2 million was recorded as a prepaid royalty that was amortized over the remaining life of the patents, which expired in June 2010. Fiscal 2009 Special Charges Patent Licenses We entered into a patent portfolio license effective March 31, 2009 with an unrelated third-party that covers both issued patents and patent applications and settled alleged infringement claims. The total payment made to the third-party was $8.25 million, $4.0 million of which was expensed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the remaining $4.25 million was recorded as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the estimated 20-year remaining life of the patents. We entered into another patent portfolio license with the same unrelated third party in March 2011 and $2.75 million was paid covering patent applications and was recorded as a prepaid royalty that will be amortized over the life of the patents. In-Process Research and Development During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed our acquisition of Hampshire Company, a leader in the large format touch screen controller market. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.5 million in-process research and development charge in the third quarter of fiscal 2009. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed the acquisition of HI-TECH Software, a provider of software development tools and compilers. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.2 million in-process research and development charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we completed our acquisition of R&E International, a leader in developing innovative integrated circuits for smoke and carbon monoxide detectors and other life-safety systems. As a result of the acquisition, we incurred a $0.2 million in-process research and development charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Abandoned Acquisition Expenses During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we pursued a potential acquisition and such efforts were subsequently terminated during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. As such, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, we expensed $1.6 million of various costs associated with the terminated acquisition. Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements This report, including "Item 1 Business," "Item 1A Risk Factors," and "Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "estimate," "future," "continue," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations; The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines; The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, fixed cost absorption, competition and economic conditions on gross margin; The amount of, and changes in, demand for our products and those of our customers; 27 Table of Contents Our expectation that the overall percentage of revenue from our top ten customers will increase due to our acquisition of SMSC; The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter; Our expectation that our inventory levels will increase modestly in the June 2013 quarter compared to the March 2013 quarter and that it will allow us to maintain competitive lead times and keep our capital expenditures low; Our expectation that research and development expenses will be relatively flat with the March 2013 quarter and for such expenses to decrease as a percentage of net sales due to operational efficiencies and continued synergies of the SMSC integration; The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us; Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel; Our belief that deferred cost of sales are recorded at their approximate carrying value and will have low risk of material impairment; Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base; Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog, interface and mixed signal product lines and the effect of such an increase; Our belief that our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs; The impact of any supply disruption we may experience; Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs; That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; That our existing facilities will provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand with modest incremental capital expenditures; That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies; Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields; Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products; The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations; Our anticipated level of capital expenditures; Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends; The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity to finance anticipated capital expenditures and otherwise meet our anticipated cash requirements, and the effects that our contractual obligations are expected to have on them; The impact of seasonality on our business; The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards; That the resolution of legal actions will not have a material effect on our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss; The recoverability of our deferred tax assets; The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate; Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact on our overall tax expense or effective tax rate; Our belief that the estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements are reasonable; Our belief that recently issued accounting pronouncements listed in this document will not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements; The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets and other liabilities; The adequacy of our patent strategy, and our belief that the impact of the expiration of any particular patent will not have a material effect on our business; Our actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis; Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation; The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability or indemnification claims; The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on our income and/or cash flows; The effect of fluctuations in currency rates; The accuracy of our estimates of market information that determines the value of our Auction Rate Securities (ARS), and that the lack of markets for the ARS will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or ability to fund operations; That a significant portion of our future cash generation will be in our foreign subsidiaries; Our intention to satisfy the lesser of the principal amount or the conversion value of our debenture in cash; Our intention to indefinitely reinvest undistributed earnings of certain non-US subsidiaries in those subsidiaries; 28 Table of Contents Our intent to maintain a high-quality investment portfolio that preserves principal, meets liquidity needs, avoids inappropriate concentrations and delivers an appropriate yield; and Our ability to collect accounts receivable. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth in "Item 1A Risk Factors," and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. Introduction The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document, as well as with other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including "Item 1 Business;" "Item 6 Selected Financial Data;" and "