Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements." Our actual results could differ materially from the results described in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Item 1A. Risk Factors," beginning below at page 12, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Although we believe that the matters reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. In this Form 10-K, "we," "us," "our," and "Microchip" each refers to Microchip Technology Incorporated and its subsidiaries. Item 1. Business We develop, manufacture and sell smart, connected and secure embedded control solutions used by our customers for a wide variety of applications. With over 30 years of technology leadership, our broad product portfolio is a Total System Solution (TSS) for our customers that provides a large portion of the silicon requirements in their applications. TSS is a combination of hardware, software and services which help our customers increase their revenue, reduce their costs and manage their risks compared to other solutions. Our synergistic product portfolio empowers disruptive growth trends, including 5G, artificial intelligence and machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), advanced driver assist systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving, and electric vehicles, in key end markets such as automotive, aerospace and defense, communications, consumer, data centers and computing, and industrial. Impact of COVID-19 on Our Business In the first half of fiscal 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a global disruption in economic activity by adversely affecting production, creating supply chain and market disruption, and adversely impacting businesses and individuals. In the second half of fiscal 2021, business conditions were unexpectedly strong as businesses and individuals adapted to the effects of the pandemic. Supply chains, however, were stressed as they were not expecting the level of economic strength that occurred. The impact of the pandemic on individuals and in certain locations in which we operate remains uncertain and will depend on many factors, such as the effectiveness of the pandemic containment efforts including the use and effectiveness of vaccines. We regularly monitor new information regarding the severity of COVID-19 and the ability to contain, treat, or prevent it. In response to the early indications of the COVID-19 pandemic, we took proactive measures to safeguard the health of our employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, visitors to our facilities, other business partners, and our communities. While our global manufacturing sites are fully operational, we strategically implemented plans intended to provide more assurance of business continuity in the event severe outbreaks or government requirements were to impact our operations. We monitor governmental policies and CDC recommendations and take appropriate actions which are designed to prevent and control the spread of COVID-19. Industry Background Competitive pressures require OEMs of a wide variety of products to expand product functionality and provide differentiation while maintaining or reducing cost. To address these requirements, manufacturers often use integrated circuit-based embedded control systems that enable them to: differentiate their products replace less efficient electromechanical control devices reduce the number of components in their system add product functionality reduce the system level energy consumption make systems safer to operate add security to their products decrease time to market for their products significantly reduce product cost 4 Table of Contents Embedded control systems have been incorporated into thousands of products and subassemblies in a wide variety of applications and markets worldwide, including: actuators applications requiring touch buttons, touch screens and graphical user interfaces automotive access control automotive comfort, safety, information and entertainment applications avionics communication infrastructure systems consumer electronics defense and military hardware electric vehicles handheld tools home and building automation industrial automation large and small home appliances medical devices motor controls portable computers and accessories power supplies residential and commercial security systems robotics routers and video surveillance systems satellites smart home and IoT edge devices smart meters and energy monitoring storage and server systems touch control wireless communication Embedded control systems typically incorporate a microcontroller as the principal active, and sometimes sole, component. A microcontroller is a self-contained computer-on-a-chip consisting of a central processing unit, often with on-board non-volatile program memory for program storage, random access memory for data storage and various analog and digital input/output peripheral capabilities. In addition to the microcontroller, a complete embedded control system often incorporates application-specific software, various analog, mixed-signal, timing, connectivity, security and non-volatile memory components such as EEPROMs and Flash memory. The increasing demand for embedded control systems has made the market for microcontrollers a significant segment of the semiconductor market at $17.5 billion in calendar year 2020. Microcontrollers are primarily available in 8-bit through 32-bit architectures. 8-bit microcontrollers remain very cost-effective and easy to use for a wide range of high-volume embedded control applications and, as a result, continue to represent a significant portion of the overall microcontroller market. 16-bit and 32-bit microcontrollers provide higher performance and functionality, and are generally found in more complex embedded control applications. FPGAs are programmable integrated circuits that are used to implement complex logic functions and can be re-programmed at any time, allowing for multiple implementations and revisions during or after the end customer system is manufactured. Some versions of FPGAs also include a microcontroller or microprocessor core to provide additional system on chip functionality for compute intensive tasks. The analog and mixed-signal segment of the semiconductor market was $54.0 billion in calendar year 2020, and this market is fragmented into a large number of sub segments. Our Products Our strategic focus is on providing cost-effective embedded control solutions that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, extreme low power usage, wide voltage range operation, mixed signal integration, and ease of development, thus enabling timely and cost-effective integration of our solutions by our customers in their end products. Microcontrollers We offer a broad family of proprietary general purpose microcontroller products marketed under multiple brand names. We believe that our microcontroller product families provide leading function and performance characteristics in the worldwide microcontroller market. We target the 8-bit, 16-bit, and 32-bit microcontroller and 32-bit embedded microprocessor markets. We have shipped more than 29.5 billion microcontrollers to customers worldwide since 1990. We also offer 5 Table of Contents specialized microcontrollers for automotive, industrial, computing, communications, lighting, power supplies, motor control, human machine interface, security, wired connectivity and wireless connectivity applications. We leverage our circuit design, process technologies, development tools, applications knowledge, and manufacturing experiences to enable our customers to implement various embedded control functions in their end systems with our microcontrollers. Analog Our analog product line consists of several families including power management, linear, mixed-signal, high voltage, thermal management, discrete diodes and MOSFETS, RF, drivers, safety, security, timing, USB, ethernet, wireless and other interface products. We market and sell our analog product line into our microcontroller, microprocessor and FPGA customer base, and to customers who use microcontrollers and FPGA products from other suppliers and to customers who use other products that may not fit our traditional microcontroller, FPGA and memory products customer base. Other Our other product line includes FPGA products, royalties associated with licenses for the use of our SuperFlash and other technologies, sales of our intellectual property, fees for engineering services, memory products, timing systems, manufacturing services (wafer foundry and assembly and test subcontracting), legacy application specific integrated circuits, and products for aerospace applications. Our FPGA products were primarily acquired as a part of our acquisition of Microsemi Corporation (Microsemi) in May 2018. Our portfolio of non-volatile FPGAs are recognized for their low power, high security and extended reliability. We market and sell our FPGA products and related solutions into a broad range of applications within the industrial, automotive, defense, aviation, space and communications markets. Our technology licensing business generates license fees and royalties associated with technology licenses for the use of our SuperFlash embedded flash and Smartbits one time programmable NVM technologies. We also generate fees for engineering services related to these technologies. We license our NVM technologies to foundries, integrated device manufacturers and design partners throughout the world for use in the manufacture of their advanced microcontroller products, gate array, RF, analog and neuromorphic compute products that require embedded non-volatile memory. Our memory products consist of EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories, Parallel Flash memories, Serial SRAM memories and EERAM. Serial EEPROMs, Serial Flash memories, Serial SRAMs and EERAM have a very low I/O pin requirement, permitting production of very small footprint devices. We sell our memory products primarily into the embedded control market, complementing our microcontroller offerings. Microcontroller Development Tools We offer a comprehensive set of low-cost and easy-to-learn application development tools. These tools enable system designers to quickly and easily program our microcontroller and microprocessor products for specific applications and, we believe, they are an important factor for facilitating design wins. Our family of development tools for our microcontroller and microprocessor products range from entry-level systems, which include an assembler or a compiler and programmer or in-circuit debugging hardware, to fully configured systems that provide in-circuit emulation capability. We also offer a complete suite of compilers, software code configurators and simulators. Customers moving from entry-level designs to those requiring real-time emulation are able to preserve their investment in learning and tools as they migrate to future microcontroller devices in our portfolio. Many independent companies also develop and market application development tools that support our microcontroller and microprocessor product architectures, including an extensive amount of third-party tool suppliers whose products support our microcontroller architectures. We believe that familiarity with and adoption of development tools from Microchip as well as third-party development tool partners by an increasing number of product designers will be an important factor in the future selection of our embedded 6 Table of Contents control products. These development tools allow design engineers to develop thousands of application-specific products from our standard microcontrollers. Manufacturing Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication, wafer probe, assembly and test. The ownership of a substantial portion of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control, resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical techniques (statistical process control, designed experiments and wafer level monitoring), we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture a portion of the wafer manufacturing and assembly and testing profit margin. We do outsource a significant portion of our manufacturing requirements to third parties and the amount of our outsourced manufacturing has increased in recent years due to our acquisitions of Microsemi and other companies that outsource all or substantial portions of their manufacturing. We comply with several quality systems, including: ISO9001 (2015 version), IATF16949 (2016 version), AS9100 (2016 version), and TL9000. Refer to "Item 2. Properties" for further information regarding the location and principal operations of our manufacturing facilities. Wafer Fabrication Fab 2 currently produces 8-inch wafers and supports various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.25 microns to 1.0 microns processes. During fiscal 2021, we increased Fab 2's capacity to support more advanced technologies by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment. Fab 4 currently produces 8-inch wafers using predominantly 0.13 microns to 0.5 microns manufacturing processes. During fiscal 2021, we increased Fab 4's capacity to support more advanced technologies by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment. A significant amount of additional clean room capacity in Fab 4 can be brought on line in the future to support incremental wafer fabrication capacity needs. During fiscal 2020, we announced our intention to re-purpose Fab 5 to manufacture discrete and specialty products in addition to a lower volume of a diversified set of standard products. In connection with these efforts, we reduced the clean room footprint and transferred certain higher volume products from Fab 5 to our 8-inch wafer fabrication facilities in Arizona and Oregon. These restructuring efforts were substantially completed as of March 31, 2021. We believe the combined capacity of Fab 2, Fab 4, and Fab 5 will allow us to respond to future demand with incremental capital expenditures. As a result of our acquisition of Microsemi, we acquired several smaller wafer fabrication facilities, which utilize older technologies that are appropriate for the discrete products they manufacture. We plan to operate these fabrication facilities with modest investment to keep them operational with the exception of the facility in Santa Clara, California, which we plan to close by December 2021. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. We believe that our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies is important for us to remain competitive. We augment our internal manufacturing capabilities by outsourcing a significant portion of our wafer production requirements to third-party wafer foundries. As a result of our acquisitions in recent years, we have become more reliant on outside wafer foundries for our wafer fabrication requirements. In fiscal 2021, approximately 61% of our sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. Assembly and Test We perform product assembly and test at various facilities located around the world. During fiscal 2021, we increased capacity at our Thailand and Philippines facilities to support more technologies by making process improvements, upgrading existing equipment, and adding equipment. During fiscal 2021, approximately 53% of our assembly requirements were being performed in our internal facilities and approximately 57% of our test requirements were performed in internal facilities. We 7 Table of Contents use third-party assembly and test contractors for the balance of our assembly and test requirements. Over time, we intend to continue to migrate a portion of the outsourced assembly and test activities to our internal facilities. General Matters Impacting Our Manufacturing Operations Due to the high fixed costs inherent in semiconductor manufacturing, consistently high manufacturing yields have significant positive effects on our gross profit and overall operating results. Our continuous focus on manufacturing productivity has allowed us to maintain excellent manufacturing yields at our facilities. Our manufacturing yields are primarily driven by a comprehensive implementation of statistical process control, extensive employee training and effective use of our manufacturing facilities and equipment. Maintenance of manufacturing productivity and yields are important factors in the achievement of our operating results. The manufacture of integrated circuits, particularly non-volatile, erasable complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) memory and logic devices, such as those that we produce, are complex processes. These processes are sensitive to a wide variety of factors, including the level of contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used and the performance of our manufacturing personnel and equipment. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. Historically, we have relied on our ability to respond quickly to customer orders as part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. In order to respond to such requirements, we have historically maintained a significant work-in-process and finished goods inventory. Refer to Note 5 for a summary of our long-lived assets, consisting of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets, by geography. We have many suppliers of raw materials and subcontractors which provide our various materials and service needs. We generally seek to have multiple sources of supply for our raw materials and services, but, in some cases, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers. Sales and Distribution General We market and sell our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our direct sales force focuses on a wide variety of strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and technical support centers in major metropolitan areas in all three geographic markets. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our CEMs, ESEs, and sales management have technical degrees or backgrounds and have been previously employed in high technology environments. We believe that the technical and business knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our ESE team is to provide technical assistance to customers and to conduct periodic training sessions for the balance of our sales team. ESEs also frequently conduct technical seminars and workshops in major cities around the world or through online webcasts. Our licensing division has dedicated sales, technology, design, product, test and reliability personnel that support the requirements of our licensees. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we launched our Preferred Supply Program, which provides our customers with prioritized capacity beginning 6 months after their order of 12 months of continuous, non-cancellable and non-reschedulable backlog. For information regarding our revenue, results of operations, and total assets for each of our last three fiscal years, refer to our financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Distribution Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize us for our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. In each of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, we derived 50% of our net sales through distributors and 50% of our net sales from customers serviced directly by us. With the exception of Arrow Electronics, our largest distributor, which accounted for 10% 8 Table of Contents of our net sales in fiscal 2020, no other distributor or end customer accounted for more than 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2021 or fiscal 2020. With the exception of orders placed under our Preferred Supply Program, we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our distributors and we, or our distributors, may each terminate our relationship with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. Competition The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and has been characterized by price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, some of which have greater market recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we have with which to pursue engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products. We also compete with a number of companies that we believe have copied, cloned, pirated or reverse engineered our proprietary product lines in such countries as China and Taiwan. We are continuing to take actions to vigorously and aggressively defend and protect our intellectual property on a worldwide basis. We currently compete principally on the basis of the technical innovation and performance of our embedded control products, including the following product characteristics: performance analog, digital and mixed signal functionality and level of functional integration field programmability memory density low power consumption extended voltage ranges reliability security and functional safety packaging alternatives comprehensive suite of development tools We believe that other important competitive factors in the embedded control market include: ease of use functionality of application development systems hardware, software and tool compatibility within product families to increase migration flexibility dependable delivery, quality and availability technical and innovative service and support time to market price We believe that we compete favorably with other companies on all of these factors, but we may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Patents, Licenses and Trademarks We maintain a portfolio of U.S. and foreign patents, expiring on various dates from 2021 through 2039. We also have numerous additional U.S. and foreign patent applications pending. We do not expect that the expiration of any particular patent will have a material impact on our business. While our intention is to continue to patent our technology and manufacturing processes, we believe that our continued success depends primarily on the technological skills and innovative capabilities of our personnel and our ability to rapidly commercialize new and enhanced products. As with any operating company, the scope and strength of our intellectual property assets, including our pending and existing patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights may be insufficient to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Moreover, pursuing violations of intellectual property rights on a worldwide basis is a complex challenge involving multinational patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws. Further, the laws of particular foreign countries often fail to protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We have also entered into certain in-bound and outbound intellectual property licenses and cross-licenses with other companies and those licenses relate to semiconductor products and manufacturing processes. As is typical in the semiconductor industry, we and our customers from time to time receive, and may continue to receive, demand letters from third parties 9 Table of Contents asserting infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights. We diligently investigate all such notices and respond as we believe appropriate. In most cases we believe that we can obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, however, we cannot be certain that this would be the case, or that litigation or damages for any past infringement could be avoided. Licensees of our technology may become unable to pay, or dispute their obligations to pay us royalties or fees. Litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, which could result in substantial costs and require significant attention from management, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, or to defend against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The failure to obtain necessary licenses, the necessity of engaging in defensive legal proceedings, or any negative results of these proceedings could harm our business. Environmental Regulation We must comply with many different federal, state, local and foreign governmental regulations related to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals and gases used in our manufacturing processes. Our facilities have been designed to comply with these regulations and we believe that our activities are conducted in material compliance with such regulations. Any changes in such regulations or in their enforcement could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses to comply with environmental regulations. Any failure by us to adequately control the storage, use, discharge and disposal of regulated substances could result in significant future liabilities. Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations. While we have not experienced any materially adverse effects on our operations from recently adopted environmental regulations, our business and results of operations could suffer if for any reason we fail to control the storage or use of, or to adequately restrict the discharge or disposal of, hazardous substances under present or future environmental regulations. Human Capital Resources Our Employees We invest in our highly-skilled global workforce of approximately 19,500 people in accordance with our Guiding Value: employees are our greatest strength. We believe that our culture, values, and organizational development and training programs provide an inclusive work environment where our employees are empowered and engaged to deliver the best embedded control solutions to our customers. Culture and Core Values Before Microchip went public in 1993, Microchip created a cultural framework to unite its employees through shared workplace values, and to guide employees strategies, decisions, actions and job performance. Microchips culture is centered on a values-based, highly-empowered, continuous-improvement oriented approach. This corporate culture strengthens our business, and enables us to fulfill our purpose. Our focus on communication provides transparency among leadership, promotes trust among employees, and is a critical part of Microchips culture. Our culture is important to our employees, and is a key reason why we have had a strong worldwide retention rate for many years, and have a significant number of employees with long tenure with Microchip that have grown from individual contributors in the early stages of their careers into senior leadership positions today. This long tenure among our employee-base results in deep relationships and trust being built among colleagues, retention of our knowledge base, and continuation of our culture. More information on our Guiding Values can be found at www.microchip.com/en-us/about/investors/investor-information/mission-statement. We promote employee adoption of our culture through a number of methods including training, mentorship, values-based performance reviews, employee engagement surveys, company-wide quarterly meetings, town hall meetings with the President and Chief Executive Officer and other executive team members, and an open-door policy of communication where employees are encouraged to interact directly with management. Training and Development Microchips culture focuses on continuous improvement. We provide training on our culture, management skills, communication, technical skills, and personal improvement. Microchip also has a leadership program that provides for the growth and development of its future leaders. This program helps us develop leaders that serve as role models of Microchip culture, and support empowerment and open communication. 10 Table of Contents Compensation Programs We strive to provide competitive pay and benefits, that help meet the varying needs of our employees. Our total compensation package includes base pay, broad-based stock grants and bonuses, healthcare and retirement plans, employee stock purchase plans, and paid time off and family leave. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following sets forth certain information regarding our executive officers as of April 30, 2021: Name Age Position Ganesh Moorthy 61 President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director Steve Sanghi 65 Executive Chair J. Eric Bjornholt 50 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Stephen V. Drehobl 59 Senior Vice President, MCU8 and MCU16 Business Units Mitchell R. Little 69 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Client Engagement Richard J. Simoncic 57 Senior Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units Mr. Moorthy was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in March 2021 and to the Board of Directors in January 2021. Mr. Moorthy has served as President since February 2016 and Chief Operating Officer since June 2009. He also served as Executive Vice President from October 2006 to August 2012 and as a Vice President in various roles since he joined Microchip in 2001. Prior to this time, he served in various executive capacities with other semiconductor companies. Mr. Moorthy holds an M.B.A. in Marketing from National University, a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Washington and a B.S. degree in Physics from the University of Mumbai, India. Mr. Moorthy was elected to the Board of Directors of Rogers Corporation in July 2013 and serves on the Audit Committee of the Board and as the Nominating and Governance Committee Chairperson. Mr. Sanghi transitioned to Executive Chair in March 2021. He served as Chief Executive Officer from October 1991 to March 2021 and as Chairman of the Board since October 1993. He served as President from August 1990 to February 2016 and has served as a director since August 1990. Mr. Sanghi holds an M.S. degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Massachusetts and a B.S. degree in Electronics and Communication from Punjab University. Mr. Sanghi served on the Board of Directors of Myomo, Inc., a publicly traded commercial stage medical robotics company that offers expanded mobility for those suffering from neurological disorders and upper-limb paralysis, from November 2016 through October 2019. Mr. Sanghi served on the board of Mellanox Technologies Ltd., a publicly traded supplier of end-to-end Ethernet and InfiniBand intelligent interconnect solutions and services for servers, storage, and hyper-converged infrastructure, from February 2018 through April 2020. Mr. Sanghi was elected to the Board of Directors of Impinj, Inc. in March 2021. Mr. Bjornholt was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Finance since 2008 and as Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. He has served in various financial management capacities since he joined Microchip in 1995. Mr. Bjornholt holds a Master's degree in Taxation from Arizona State University and a B.S. degree in Accounting from the University of Arizona. Mr. Drehobl was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of the MCU8 business unit and various other divisions and business units since July 2001. He has been employed by Microchip since August 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since February 1997. Mr. Drehobl holds a Bachelor of Technology degree from the University of Dayton. Mr. Little was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales since July 2000. He has been employed by Microchip since 1989 and has served as a Vice President in various roles since September 1993. Mr. Little holds a B.S. degree in Engineering Technology from United Electronics Institute. Mr. Simoncic was promoted to Senior Vice President in 2019 and has served as Vice President, Analog Power and Interface Business Units since September 1999. From October 1995 to September 1999, he served as Vice President in various roles. Since joining Microchip in 1990, Mr. Simoncic held various roles in Design, Device/Yield Engineering and Quality Systems. Mr. Simoncic holds a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering Technology from DeVry Institute of Technology. 11 Table of Contents Available Information Microchip Technology Incorporated was incorporated in Delaware in 1989. Our executive offices are located at 2355 West Chandler Boulevard, Chandler, Arizona 85224-6199 and our telephone number is (480) 792-7200. Our Internet address is www.microchip.com. We post the following filings on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our annual report on Form 10-K our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q our current reports on Form 8-K our proxy statement any amendments to the above-listed reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act All of our SEC filings on our website are available free of charge. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Form 10-K. Item 1A. Risk Factors When evaluating Microchip and its business, you should give careful consideration to the factors below, as well as the information provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the SEC. Risk Factor Summary Risks Related to Our Business, Operations, and Industry impact of global economic conditions on our operating results, net sales and profitability; impact of economic conditions on the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers; impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, increased tariffs or other factors affecting our suppliers; dependence on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks; limited visibility to product shipments; dependency on wafer foundries and other contractors by our licensees and ourselves; intense competition in the markets we serve, leading to pricing pressures, reduced sales or market share; ineffective utilization of our manufacturing capacity or failure to maintain manufacturing yields; impact of seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the industry; dependency on distributors; ability to introduce new products on a timely basis; business interruptions, including natural disasters, affecting our operations or that of key vendors, licensees or customers; technology licensing business exposes us to various risks; reliance on sales into governmental projects; risks related to grants from governments, agencies and research organizations; future acquisitions or divestitures; future impairments to goodwill or intangible assets; our failure to maintain proper and effective internal control and remediate future control deficiencies; customer demands to implement business practices that are more stringent than legal requirements; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and the occurrence of events for which we are self-insured, or which exceed our insurance limits. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Privacy, Intellectual Property, and Litigation attacks on our IT systems and data, interruptions in our IT systems, or improper handling of data; risks related to compliance with privacy and data protection laws and regulations; risks related to legal proceedings, investigations or claims; risks related to contractual relationships with our customers; and protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights. Risks Related to Taxation, Laws and Regulations impact of new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; fines, restrictions or delay in our ability to export products, or increase costs associated with the manufacture or transfer of products; 12 Table of Contents outcome of future examinations of our income tax returns; exposure to greater than anticipated income tax liabilities, changes in or the interpretation of tax rules and regulations including the TCJA, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (ARPA), or unfavorable assessments from tax audits; impact of the legislative and policy changes implemented by the new administration; impact of stringent environmental, climate change, conflict-free minerals and other regulations or customer demands; and requirement to fund our foreign pension plans. Risks Related to Capitalization and Financial Markets impact of various factors on our future trading price of our common stock; our ability to effectively manage current or future debt; our ability to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain access to external financing; impact of conversion of our convertible debt on the ownership interest of our existing stockholders; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business, Operations, and Industry Our operating results are impacted by global economic conditions and may fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability. Our operating results are affected by a wide variety of factors that could reduce our net sales and profitability, many of which are beyond our control. Some of the factors that may affect our operating results include: general economic, industry, public health or political conditions in the U.S. or internationally, including ongoing uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic and its implications; disruptions in our business, our supply chain or our customers' businesses due to public health concerns (including viral outbreaks such as COVID-19), cybersecurity incidents, terrorist activity, armed conflict, war, worldwide oil prices and supply, fires, natural disasters or disruptions in the transportation system; constrained availability from other electronic suppliers impacting our customers' ability to ship their products, which in turn may adversely impact our sales to those customers; our ability to increase our factory capacity to respond to changes in customer demand; our ability to secure sufficient wafer foundry, assembly and testing capacity; availability of raw materials, supplies and equipment; changes in demand or market acceptance of our products and products of our customers, and market fluctuations in the industries into which such products are sold; the level of order cancellations or push-outs due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors; trade restrictions and increase in tariffs, including those on business in China, or focused on specific companies; the mix of inventory we hold and our ability to satisfy orders from our inventory; our ability to continue to realize the expected benefits of our past or future acquisitions; changes in utilization of our manufacturing capacity and fluctuations in manufacturing yields; changes or fluctuations in customer order patterns and seasonality; changes in tax regulations in countries in which we do business; new accounting pronouncements or changes in existing accounting standards and practices; levels of inventories held by our customers; risk of excess and obsolete inventories; competitive developments including pricing pressures; unauthorized copying of our products resulting in pricing pressure and loss of sales; our ability to successfully transition to more advanced process technologies to reduce manufacturing costs; the level of orders that are received and can be shipped in a quarter, including the impact of product lead times; the level of sell-through of our products through distribution; fluctuations in our mix of product sales; announcements of other significant acquisitions by us or our competitors; costs and outcomes of any current or future tax audits or any litigation, investigation or claims involving intellectual property, our Microsemi acquisition, customers or other issues; fluctuations in commodity or energy prices; and property damage or other losses, whether or not covered by insurance. Period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and you should not rely upon any such comparisons as indications of our future performance. In future periods, our operating results may fall below our public guidance or the expectations of public market analysts and investors, which would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. Uncertain global economic and public health conditions, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have caused or may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and make comparisons between periods less meaningful. Our operating results may be adversely impacted if economic conditions impact the financial viability of our licensees, customers, distributors, or suppliers. We regularly review the financial performance of our licensees, customers, distributors and suppliers. Any downturn in global economic conditions, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, may adversely impact their financial viability. The financial failure of a large licensee, customer or distributor, an important supplier, or a group thereof, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could result in our inability to collect our accounts receivable balances, higher allowances for credit losses, and higher operating costs as a percentage of net sales. 14 Table of Contents We may lose sales if suppliers of raw materials, components or equipment fail to meet our or our customers' needs or increase costs due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, increased tariffs or other factors. Our manufacturing operations require raw and processed materials and equipment that must meet exacting standards. We generally have multiple sources for these supplies, but there may be a limited number of suppliers capable of meeting our standards. We have experienced supply shortages from time to time in the past, and on occasion our suppliers have told us they need more time to fill our orders or that they will no longer support certain equipment with updates or parts. In particular, we have recently experienced longer lead times for some assembly raw materials required for production purposes. An interruption of any materials or equipment sources, or the lack of supplier support for a particular piece of equipment, could harm our business. The supplies necessary for our business could become more difficult to obtain as worldwide use of semiconductors increases. Additionally, consolidation in our supply chain due to mergers and acquisitions may reduce the number of suppliers or change our relationships with them. Also, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or the application of trade restrictions or tariffs by the U.S. or other countries may adversely impact the industry supply chain. For example, in 2019, the U.S. government increased tariffs on U.S. imports with China as their country of origin. Likewise, the China government increased tariffs on China imports with U.S. as their country of origin. We have taken steps to attempt to mitigate the costs of these tariffs on our business. Although these increases in tariffs did not significantly increase the operating costs of our business, they did, however, adversely impact demand for our products during fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019. The additional tariffs imposed on components or equipment that we or our suppliers source from China will increase our costs and could have an adverse impact on our operating results in future periods. We may also incur increases in manufacturing costs in mitigating the impact of tariffs on our operations. This could also impair sourcing flexibility. Our customers may also be adversely affected by these same issues. The supplies and equipment necessary for their businesses could become more difficult to obtain for various reasons not limited to business interruptions of suppliers, consolidation in their supply chain, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, or trade restrictions or tariffs that impair sourcing flexibility or increase costs. If our customers are not able to produce their products, then their need for our products will decrease. Such interruptions of our customers businesses could harm our business. We are highly dependent on foreign sales and operations, which exposes us to foreign political and economic risks. Sales to foreign customers account for a substantial portion of our net sales. During fiscal 2021, approximately 77% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 22% in China and 16% in Taiwan. During fiscal 2020, approximately 78% of our net sales were made to foreign customers, including 21% in China and 15% in Taiwan. A strong position in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. Although our sales in the Chinese market have been strong in recent quarters, competition in China is intense. Also, during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, economic weakness in the Chinese market adversely impacted our sales volumes in China. As discussed in the risk factor above, the trade relationship between the U.S. and China remains challenging, economic conditions in China remain uncertain, and we are unable to predict whether such uncertainty will continue or worsen in future periods. Weakening of foreign markets could result in lower demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial conditions. We purchase a substantial portion of our raw materials and equipment from foreign suppliers. In addition, we own product assembly and testing facilities, and finished goods warehouses near Bangkok, Thailand, which has experienced periods of political instability and severe flooding in the past. There can be no assurance that any future flooding or political instability in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. We have a test facility in Calamba, Philippines. We use foundries and other foreign contractors for a significant portion of our assembly and testing and wafer fabrication requirements. Our reliance on foreign operations, foreign suppliers, maintenance of substantially all of our finished goods inventory at foreign locations and significant foreign sales exposes us to foreign political and economic risks, including, but not limited to: political, social and economic instability due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors; trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; potentially adverse tax consequences; economic uncertainty in the worldwide markets served by us; import and export license requirements and restrictions; changes in laws related to taxes, environmental, health and safety, technical standards and consumer protection; currency fluctuations and foreign exchange regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; employment regulations; disruptions due to cybersecurity incidents; 15 Table of Contents disruptions in international transport or delivery; public health conditions (including viral outbreaks such as COVID-19); and difficulties in collecting receivables and longer payment cycles. If any of these risks occur or are worse than we anticipate, our sales could decrease and our operating results could suffer, we could face an increase in the cost of components, production delays, business interruptions, delays in obtaining export licenses, tariffs and other restrictions, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, restrictions on the repatriation of funds and the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business. Further changes in trade policy, tariffs, additional taxes, or restrictions on supplies, equipment, and raw materials including rare earth minerals, may limit our ability to produce products, increase our selling and/or manufacturing costs, decrease margins, reduce the competitiveness of our products, or inhibit our ability to sell products or purchase necessary equipment and supplies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial conditions. We depend on orders that are received and shipped in the same quarter and have limited visibility to product shipments other than orders placed under our Preferred Supply Program. Our net sales in any given quarter depend upon a combination of shipments from backlog, and orders that are both received and shipped in the same quarter, which we call turns orders. We measure turns orders at the beginning of a quarter based on the orders needed to meet the shipment targets that we set entering the quarter. Historically, our ability to respond quickly to customer orders has been part of our competitive strategy, resulting in customers placing orders with relatively short delivery schedules. Shorter lead times generally mean that turns orders as a percentage of our business are relatively high in any particular quarter and reduce our visibility on future shipments. Turns orders correlate to overall semiconductor industry conditions and product lead times. Although our backlog has been very strong in recent periods due to favorable industry conditions and the impact of our Preferred Supply Program, turns orders remain important to our ability to meet our business objectives. Because turns orders can be difficult to predict, especially in times of economic volatility where customers may change order levels within the quarter, varying levels of turns orders make it more difficult to forecast net sales. As a significant portion of our products are manufactured at foundries, foundry lead times may affect our ability to satisfy certain turns orders. If we do not achieve a sufficient level of turns orders in a particular quarter relative to our revenue targets, our revenue and operating results will likely suffer. In February 2021, we announced our Preferred Supply Program which offers our customers the ability to receive prioritized capacity in the second half of calendar 2021 and the first half of calendar 2022. To participate in the program, customers have to place 12 months of orders, which cannot be cancelled or rescheduled. The capacity priority will begin for shipments in July 2021. The program is not a guarantee of supply; however, it will provide the highest priority for those orders which are under this program, and the capacity priority will be on a first-come, first-served basis until the available capacity is booked. A significant portion of our capacity is booked under this new program. We believe this program will enable us to be in a stronger position to make capacity and raw material commitments to our suppliers, buy capital equipment with confidence, hire employees and ramp up manufacturing and manufacture products more efficiently. Since this is a new program, there can be no assurance that the program will be successful or that it will benefit our business. In the event that customers under this program attempt to cancel or reschedule orders, we may have to take legal or other action to enforce the terms of the program, and any such actions could result in damage to our customer relationships or cause us to incur significant costs. We are dependent on wafer foundries and other contractors, as are our SuperFlash and other licensees. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a significant portion of our wafer fabrication needs. Specifically, during each of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, approximately 61% of our net sales came from products that were produced at outside wafer foundries. We also use several contractors located primarily in Asia for a portion of the assembly and testing of our products. Specifically, during fiscal 2021, approximately 47% of our assembly requirements and 43% of our test requirements were performed by third party contractors compared to approximately 55% of our assembly requirements and 46% of our test requirements during fiscal 2020. Due to increased demand for our products, we have recently taken actions to increase our capacity allocation from our wafer fabrication, assembly and test subcontractors. However, we expect foundry capacity to continue to be tight due to strong demand for wafers across the industry and there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure further additional capacity or that such capacity will be available on acceptable terms. We expect that our reliance on third party contractors may increase over time as our business grows. Our use of third parties reduces our control over the subcontracted portions of our business. Our future operating results could suffer if a significant contractor were to experience production difficulties, insufficient capacity, decreased manufacturing, assembly and test yields, or increased costs due to disruptions from the COVID-19 pandemic, political upheaval 16 Table of Contents or infrastructure disruption. If third parties do not timely deliver products or services in accordance with our quality standards, we may be unable to qualify alternate manufacturing sources in a timely manner on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, these subcontractors could abandon processes that we need, or fail to adopt technologies that we desire to control costs. In such event, we could experience an interruption in production, an increase in manufacturing costs or a decline in product reliability, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Further, use of subcontractors increases the risks of misappropriation of our intellectual property. Certain of our SuperFlash and other technology licensees rely on wafer foundries. If our licensees experienced disruption in supply at such foundries, this would reduce the revenue from our technology licensing business and would harm our operating results. Intense competition in the markets we serve may lead to pricing pressures, reduced sales or reduced market share. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive and faces price erosion and rapid technological change. We compete with major domestic and international semiconductor companies, many of which have greater market recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources than we do. The semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years which has resulted in several of our competitors becoming much larger in terms of revenue, product offerings and scale. We may be unable to compete successfully in the future, which could harm our business. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: the relative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us relative to our competitors; changes in demand in the markets that we serve and the overall rate of growth or contraction of such markets, including but not limited to the automotive, personal computing and consumer electronics markets; our ability to obtain adequate foundry and assembly and test capacity and supplies at acceptable prices; the quality, performance, reliability, features, ease of use, pricing and diversity of our products; our success in designing and manufacturing new products including those implementing new technologies; the rate at which customers incorporate our products into their applications and the success of such applications; the rate at which the markets that we serve redesign and change their own products; our ability to ramp production and increase capacity, at our wafer fabrication and assembly and test facilities; product introductions by our competitors; the number, nature and success of our competitors in a given market; our ability to protect our products and processes by effective utilization of intellectual property rights; our ability to address the needs of our customers; and general market and economic conditions. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of a product. The average selling prices of our microcontroller, FPGA products, and proprietary products in our analog product line have remained relatively constant over time, while average selling prices of our memory and non-proprietary products in our analog product line have declined over time. The overall average selling price of our products is affected by these trends; however, variations in our product and geographic mix of sales can cause wider fluctuations in our overall average selling price in any given period. Generally, the selling prices of our products increased during fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 due to increased material costs and increased functionality of products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, modest pricing declines in certain of our more mature proprietary product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have moderated average selling price declines in many of our proprietary product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. However, we may not be able to do so in the future. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, competitive pricing pressures in our memory and non-proprietary products in our analog product line. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices due to increased pricing pressure, which could adversely impact our operating results. Our operating results will suffer if we ineffectively utilize our manufacturing capacity or fail to maintain manufacturing yields. Integrated circuits manufacturing processes are complex and sensitive to many factors, including contaminants in the manufacturing environment or materials used, the performance of our personnel and equipment, and other quality issues. As is typical in the industry, we have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields. Our operating results will suffer if we are unable to maintain yields at or above approximately the current levels. This could include delays in the recognition of revenue, loss of revenue, and penalties for failure to meet shipment deadlines. Our operating results are adversely affected when we operate below optimal capacity. In fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, we operated at below normal capacity levels resulting in unabsorbed capacity charges of $29.6 million and $47.2 million, respectively. 17 Table of Contents Our operating results are impacted by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand in the industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by seasonality and wide fluctuations of supply and demand. Historically, since a significant portion of our revenue is from consumer markets and international sales, our business generates stronger revenues in the first half and comparatively weaker revenues in the second half of our fiscal year. However, broad fluctuations in our business, changes in semiconductor industry and global economic conditions (including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or trade tensions) and our acquisition activity (including our acquisition of Microsemi) have had and can have a more significant impact on our results than seasonality. In periods when broad fluctuations, changes in business conditions or acquisitions occur, it is difficult to assess the impact of seasonality on our business. The semiconductor industry has had significant economic downturns, characterized by diminished product demand and production over-capacity. We have sought to reduce our exposure to this industry cyclicality by selling proprietary products, that cannot be quickly replaced, to a geographically diverse customer base across a broad range of market segments. However, we have experienced substantial period-to-period fluctuations in operating results and expect, in the future, to experience period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. Our business is dependent on distributors to service our end customers. Sales to distributors accounted for approximately 50% of our net sales in each of fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, and our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in fiscal 2020. We do not have long-term purchase agreements with our distributors, and we and our distributors may each terminate our relationship with little or no advance notice. Future adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies (including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic) or credit markets could materially impact distributor operations. Any deterioration in the financial condition, or disruption in the operations of our distributors, could adversely impact the flow of our products to our end customers and adversely impact our results of operation. In addition, during an industry or economic downturn, there may be an oversupply and decrease in demand for our products, which could reduce our net sales in a given period and increase inventory returns. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or similar laws, by our distributors could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our success depends on our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. Our future operating results depend on our ability to develop and timely introduce new products that compete effectively on the basis of price and performance and which address customer requirements. The success of our new product introductions depends on various factors, including, but not limited to: effective new product selection; timely completion and introduction of new product designs; procurement of licenses for intellectual property rights from third parties under commercially reasonable terms; timely filing and protection of intellectual property rights for new product designs; availability of development and support tools and collateral literature that make complex new products easy for engineers to understand and use; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. Because our products are complex, we have experienced delays from time to time in completing new product development. New products may not receive or maintain substantial market acceptance. We may be unable to timely design, develop and introduce competitive products, which could adversely impact our future operating results. Our success also depends upon our ability to develop and implement new design and process technologies. Semiconductor design and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change and require significant R&D expenditures. We and others in the industry have, from time to time, experienced difficulties in transitioning to advanced process technologies and have suffered reduced manufacturing yields or delays in product deliveries. Our future operating results could be adversely affected if any transition to future process technologies is substantially delayed or inefficiently implemented. Business interruptions to our operations or those of our key vendors, licensees or customers could harm our business. Operations at any of our facilities, at the facilities of any of our wafer fabrication or assembly and test subcontractors, or at any of our significant vendors, licensees or customers may be disrupted due to public health concerns (including outbreaks such as COVID-19), work stoppages, power loss, insufficient water, cyber attacks, computer network compromises, incidents of terrorism or security risk, political instability, telecommunications, transportation or other infrastructure failure, radioactive 18 Table of Contents contamination, or fire, earthquake, floods, droughts, volcanic eruptions or other natural disasters. We have taken steps to mitigate the impact of some of these events should they occur; however, we cannot be certain that we will avoid a significant impact on our business in the event of a business interruption. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, restrictions on travel adversely impacted our manufacturing operations in the Philippines and our subcontractors' manufacturing operations in Malaysia and China. Similar challenges arose for our logistics service providers, which adversely impacted their ability to ship product to our customers. The pandemic could adversely impact our business in future periods if the impact of COVID-19 increases. In the future, local governments could require us to temporarily reduce production further or cease operations at any of our facilities and we could experience constraints in fulfilling customer orders. Additionally, operations at our customers and licensees may be disrupted for a number of reasons. In April and May 2020, we received a greater number of order cancellations and requests by our customers to reschedule deliveries to future dates. Some customers requested order cancellations within our firm order window and claimed applicability of force majeure clauses. Likewise, if our licensees are unable to manufacture and ship products incorporating our technology, or if there is a decrease in product demand due to a business disruption, our royalty revenue may decline. Also, Thailand has experienced periods of severe flooding in recent years. While our facilities in Thailand have continued to operate normally, there can be no assurance that future flooding in Thailand would not have a material adverse impact on our operations. If operations at any of our facilities, or our subcontractors' facilities are interrupted, we may not be able to timely shift production to other facilities, and we may need to spend significant amounts to repair or replace our facilities and equipment. Business interruptions would likely cause delays in shipments of products to our customers, and alternate sources for production may be unavailable on acceptable terms. This could result in reduced revenues, cancellation of orders, or loss of customers. Although we maintain business interruption insurance, such insurance will likely not compensate us for any losses or damages, and business interruptions could significantly harm our business. Our technology licensing business exposes us to various risks . Our technology licensing business is based on our SuperFlash and other technologies. The success of our licensing business depends on the continued market acceptance of these technologies and on our ability to further develop such technologies and to introduce new technologies. To be successful, any such technology must be able to be repeatably implemented by licensees, provide satisfactory yield rates, address licensee and customer requirements, and perform competitively. The success of our technology licensing business depends on various other factors, including, but not limited to: proper identification of licensee requirements; timely development and introduction of new or enhanced technology; our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights for our licensed technology; our ability to limit our liability and indemnification obligations to licensees; availability of development and support services to assist licensees in their design and manufacture of products; availability of foundry licensees with sufficient capacity to support OEM production; and market acceptance of our customers' end products. Because our licensed technologies are complex, there may be delays from time to time in developing and enhancing such technologies. There can be no assurance that our existing or any enhanced or new technology will achieve or maintain substantial market acceptance. Our licensees may experience disruptions in production or reduced production levels which would adversely affect the revenue that we receive. Our technology license agreements generally include a clause that indemnifies the licensee against liability and damages (including legal defense costs) arising from certain intellectual property matters. We could be exposed to substantial liability for claims or damages related to intellectual property matters or indemnification claims. Any claim could result in significant legal fees and require significant attention from our management. These issues may adversely impact the success of our licensing business and adversely affect our future operating results. Reliance on sales into governmental projects could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of the sales of Microsemi, which we acquired in May 2018, are from or are derived from government agencies or customers who sell to U.S. government agencies. Such sales are subject to uncertainties regarding governmental spending levels, spending priorities, regulatory and policy changes. Future sales into U.S. government projects are subject to uncertain government appropriations and national defense policies and priorities, including the budgetary process, changes in the timing and spending priorities, the impact of any past or future government shutdowns, contract terminations or renegotiations, future sequestrations, or the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced suspensions and stop work orders for some of our subcontracts. Although such actions have not yet had a material adverse impact on our business, there can be no assurance as to the future costs or implications of such actions. Sales into government projects are also subject to uncertainties related to monetary, regulatory, tax and trade policies 19 Table of Contents implemented by current or future administrations or by the U.S. Congress. In the past, Microsemi has experienced delays and reductions in appropriations on programs that included its products. For example, in 2018 there were two federal government shutdowns. Further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, including those caused by any past or future shutdown of the U.S. federal government, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. If the U.S. government fails to complete its annual budget process or to provide for a continuing resolution to fund government operations, another federal government shutdown may occur, during which we may experience further delays, reductions in or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. While we generally function as a subcontractor in these type of transactions, further changes in U.S. government procurement regulations and practices, particularly surrounding initiatives to reduce costs or increase compliance obligations (such as the Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification), may adversely impact the contracting environment and our operating results. The U.S. government and its contractors may terminate their contracts with us at any time. For example, in 2014, the U.S. government terminated a $75 million contract with Microsemi. Uncertainty in government spending and termination of contracts for government related projects could have a material adverse impact on the revenue from our Microsemi acquisition. Our contracts with U.S. governmental agencies or prime customers requires us to comply with the contract terms, and governmental regulations, particularly for our facilities, systems and personnel that service such customers. Complying with these regulations, including audit requirements, requires that we devote significant resources to such matters in terms of training, personnel, information technology and facilities. Any failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and penalties and loss of current or future business that may materially and adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we receive grants from governments, agencies and research organizations. If we are unable to comply with the terms of those grants, we may not be able to receive or recognize grant benefits or we may be required to repay grant benefits and recognize related charges, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial position. From time to time, we receive economic incentive grants and allowances from European governments, agencies and research organizations targeted at increasing employment at specific locations. The subsidy grant agreements typically contain economic incentive, headcount, capital and research and development expenditures and other covenants that must be met to receive and retain grant benefits, and these programs can be subjected to periodic review by the relevant governments. Noncompliance with the conditions of the grants could result in our forfeiture of all or a portion of any future amounts to be received, as well as the repayment of all or a portion of amounts received to date. We may not fully realize the anticipated benefits of our completed or future acquisitions or divestitures. We have acquired, and expect in the future to acquire, additional businesses that we believe will complement or augment our existing businesses. In May 2018, we acquired Microsemi, which was our largest and most complex acquisition ever. Integration of our acquisitions is complex and may be costly and time consuming and include unanticipated issues, expenses and liabilities. We may not successfully or profitably integrate, operate, maintain and manage any newly acquired operations or employees. We may not be able to maintain uniform standards, procedures and policies. We may not realize the expected synergies and cost savings from the integration. There may be increased risk due to integrating financial reporting and internal control systems. It may be difficult to develop, manufacture and market the products of a newly acquired company, or grow the business at the rate we anticipate. Following an acquisition, we may not achieve the revenue or net income levels that justify the acquisition. We may suffer loss of key employees, customers and strategic partners of acquired companies and it may be difficult to implement our corporate culture at acquired companies. We have been and may in the future be subject to claims from terminated employees, shareholders of Microchip or the acquired companies and other third parties related to the transaction. In particular, in connection with our Microsemi and Atmel acquisitions, we became involved with third-party claims, litigation, governmental investigations and disputes related to such businesses and transactions. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for information regarding such matters. Acquisitions may also result in charges (such as acquisition-related expenses, write-offs, restructuring charges, or future impairment of goodwill), contingent liabilities, adverse tax consequences, additional share-based compensation expense and other charges that adversely affect our operating results. To fund our acquisition of Microsemi, we used a significant portion of our cash balances and incurred approximately $8.10 billion of additional debt. We may fund future acquisitions of new businesses or strategic alliances by utilizing cash, borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility, raising debt, issuing shares of our common stock, or other mechanisms. Further, if we decide to divest assets or a business, it may be difficult to find or complete divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies, which may include site closures, timely or on acceptable terms. These circumstances could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to the desired divestiture, or the price or terms of the divestiture may be less favorable than we had anticipated. Even following a divestiture or other exit 20 Table of Contents strategy, we may have certain continuing obligations to former employees, customers, vendors, landlords or other third parties. We may also have continuing liabilities related to former employees, assets or businesses. Such obligations may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition to acquisitions, we have in the past, and expect in the future, to enter into joint development agreements or other strategic relationships with other companies. These transactions are subject to a number of risks similar to those we face with our acquisitions including our ability to realize the expected benefits of any such transaction, to successfully market and sell products resulting from such transactions or to successfully integrate any technology developed through such transactions. As a result of our acquisition activity, our goodwill and intangible assets have increased significantly in recent years and we may in the future incur impairments to goodwill or intangible assets. When we acquire a business, a substantial portion of the purchase price of the acquisition is allocated to goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets. The amount of the purchase price which is allocated to goodwill is determined by the excess of the purchase price over the net identifiable assets acquired. As of March 31, 2021, we had goodwill of $6.67 billion and net intangible assets of $4.79 billion. In connection with the completion of our acquisition of Microsemi in May 2018, our goodwill and intangible assets increased significantly. We review our indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment annually in the fourth fiscal quarter or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets is more likely than not impaired. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether goodwill or intangible assets may be impaired include a decline in our stock price or market capitalization, reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. Our valuation methodology for assessing impairment requires management to make judgments and assumptions based on experience and to rely heavily on projections of future operating performance. Because we operate in highly competitive environments, projections of our future operating results and cash flows may vary significantly from our actual results. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2021 or fiscal 2020. No intangible asset impairment charges were recorded in fiscal 2021 compared to $2.2 million in fiscal 2020. If in future periods, we determine that our goodwill or intangible assets are impaired, we will be required to write down these assets which would have a negative effect on our consolidated financial statements. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control and remediate any future control deficiencies, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our reputation with investors. As discussed in Item 9A