ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note About Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A), other than purely historical information, including estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected operating results, and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements generally are identified by the words believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, intend, strategy, plan, may, should, will, would, will be, will continue, will likely result, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. A detailed discussion of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from such forward-looking statements is included in the section titled Risk Factors (refer to Part II, Item 1A). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. OVERVIEW Managements discussion and analysis is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2009 and the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes (Notes) included in this Form 10-Q. We generate revenue by developing, manufacturing, licensing, and supporting a wide range of software products and services for many different types of computing devices. Our software products and services include operating systems for personal computers, servers, and intelligent devices; server applications for distributed computing environments; information worker productivity applications; business solutions applications; high-performance computing applications; software development tools; and video games. We provide consulting and product and solution support services, and we train and certify computer system integrators and developers. We also design and sell hardware, including the Xbox 360 video game console, the Zune digital music and entertainment device, and peripherals. Online offerings and information are delivered through Bing, Windows Live, Office Live, Xbox LIVE, our MSN portals and channels, and the Microsoft Online Services platform, which includes offerings for businesses, such as Microsoft Dynamics CRM Online, Exchange Hosted Services, Exchange Online, and SharePoint Online. We enable the delivery of online advertising across our broad range of digital media properties and on Bing through our proprietary adCenter platform. Our revenue historically has fluctuated quarterly and has generally been the highest in the second quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season spending by consumers. Our Entertainment and Devices Division is particularly seasonal as its products are aimed at the consumer market and are in highest demand during the holiday shopping season. Typically, the Entertainment and Devices Division has generated approximately 40% of its yearly segment revenues in our second fiscal quarter. In addition, quarterly revenues may be impacted by the deferral of revenue. See the discussion below regarding the deferral of revenue related to Windows 7, which negatively impacted revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 and positively impacted revenue for the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. All growth and percentage comparisons refer to the three months and six months ended December 31, 2009, as compared with the three months and six months ended December 31, 2008, unless otherwise noted. Summary (In millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Revenue $ 19,022 $ 16,629 14% $ 31,942 $ 31,690 1% Operating income $ 8,513 $ 5,939 43% $ 12,995 $ 11,938 9% Diluted earnings per share $ 0.74 $ 0.47 57% $ 1.14 $ 0.94 21% PAGE 27 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 Revenue increased mainly due to the launch of Windows 7 on October 22, 2009. Operating income increased reflecting increased revenue and decreased operating expenses in most categories. Cost of revenue decreased $279 million or 7%, primarily reflecting decreased Xbox 360 console costs and cost controls, offset in part by increased online costs, mainly traffic acquisition costs. Research and development expenses decreased $211 million or 9%, primarily reflecting a decrease in third-party development and programming costs, a decrease in headcount, and the capitalization of certain software development costs. General and administrative expenses increased $293 million or 35%, primarily due to increased legal charges. Diluted earnings per share increased primarily reflecting increased net income and share repurchases during the past 12 months. We repurchased 183 million shares during the 12 months ended December 31, 2009. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 Revenue increased mainly due to the launch of Windows 7 on October 22, 2009. Operating income increased reflecting increased revenue and decreased operating expenses in most categories. Research and development expenses decreased $429 million or 9%, primarily reflecting a decrease in third-party development and programming costs, a decrease in headcount, and the capitalization of certain software development costs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $297 million or 4%, due mainly to cost controls and decreased corporate marketing and advertising spending. Cost of revenue decreased $285 million or 4%, primarily reflecting decreased Xbox 360 console costs and cost controls, offset in part by increased online costs, mainly traffic acquisition costs. General and administrative expenses increased $147 million or 9%, primarily due to increased legal charges, offset in part by cost controls. Diluted earnings per share increased primarily reflecting increased net income and share repurchases during the past 12 months. Demand for our software, services, hardware, and online offerings has a strong correlation to global macroeconomic factors. While we see the potential for improvement in calendar year 2010, the timing is uncertain. In the meantime, we are positive about our relative market position and our product delivery plans. In addition, we remain focused on executing in the areas we can control by continuing to provide high value products at the lowest total cost of ownership while managing our expenses. SEGMENT PRODUCT REVENUE/OPERATING INCOME (LOSS) The revenue and operating income (loss) amounts in this section are presented on a basis consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) and include certain reconciling items attributable to each of the segments. Segment information appearing in Note 18 Segment Information of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item I) is presented on a basis consistent with our current internal management reporting. Certain corporate-level activity has been excluded from segment operating results and is analyzed separately. We have recast certain prior period amounts within this section to conform to the way we internally managed and monitored segment performance during fiscal year 2010, including moving Windows Live from Online Services Division to Windows & Windows Live Division, Mobile Services from Online Services Division to Entertainment and Devices Division, and Razorfish from Online Services Division to Corporate. Razorfish was disposed of in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. PAGE 28 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Windows & Windows Live Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Revenue $ 6,904 $ 4,064 70% $ 9,528 $ 8,337 14% Operating income $ 5,394 $ 2,712 99% $ 6,854 $ 5,761 19% Windows & Windows Live (Windows) Division offerings consist of premium and standard edition Windows operating systems and online software and services through Windows Live. Premium Windows operating systems are those that include additional functionality and are sold at a price above our standard editions. Premium editions include Windows 7 Home Premium, Windows 7 Professional, Windows 7 Ultimate, Windows 7 Enterprise, Windows Vista Business, Windows Vista Home Premium, Windows Vista Ultimate, and Windows Vista Enterprise. Standard editions include Windows 7 Starter, Windows 7 Home Basic, Windows Vista Home Basic, and Windows XP Home. Windows Live primarily generates revenue from online advertising. Windows Division revenue growth is directly impacted by growth of PC purchases from original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) that pre-install versions of Windows operating systems because the OEM channel accounts for approximately 80% of total Windows Division revenue. The remaining approximately 20% of Windows Division revenue (other revenue) is generated by commercial and retail sales of Windows and online advertising from Windows Live. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, we deferred revenue (the Windows 7 Deferral) associated with sales of Windows Vista with a guarantee to be upgraded to Windows 7 at minimal or no cost and with sales of Windows 7 to retailers before general availability. We recognized the majority of this deferred revenue in the second quarter after launching Windows 7 on October 22, 2009. Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 Windows Division revenue increased due to strong sales of Windows 7 and PC market improvement. We estimate total worldwide PC shipments from all sources grew approximately 15% to 17%. OEM revenue increased $2.3 billion or 72%. Excluding $1.7 billion of revenue recognized related to the Windows 7 Deferral, OEM revenue increased $664 million or 21%, while OEM license units increased 22%. The OEM revenue increase was primarily driven by PC market growth, higher Windows attach rates across all regions, channels, and types of PCs and the restoration of normal OEM inventory levels, offset in part by PC market changes, including stronger growth of consumer PCs versus business PCs and of emerging markets versus developed markets. Other revenue increased $511 million or 60% driven primarily by strong Windows 7 retail sales. Windows Division operating income increased as a result of increased revenue, offset in part by increased operating expenses. Cost of revenue increased $81 million or 25%, primarily driven by increased retail product costs, traffic acquisition costs and royalties. Sales and marketing expenses increased $113 million or 18% reflecting increased advertising and marketing campaigns for the launch of Windows 7. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 Windows Division revenue increased primarily as a result of strong sales of Windows 7 and PC market improvement. We estimate total worldwide PC shipments from all sources grew approximately 8% to 10%. OEM revenue increased $708 million or 11%. Excluding the recognition of $248 million of revenue associated with the Windows 7 Deferral, OEM revenue increased $460 million or 7%, while OEM license units increased 14%. The OEM revenue increase was primarily driven by PC market growth, higher Windows attach rates across all regions, channels, and types of PCs and the restoration of normal OEM inventory levels, offset in part by PC market changes, including stronger growth of consumer PCs versus business PCs and of emerging markets versus developed markets. Other revenue increased $483 million or 29% driven primarily by strong Windows 7 retail sales. PAGE 29 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Windows Division operating income increased as a result of increased revenue, offset in part by increased operating expenses. Cost of revenue increased $122 million or 19%, primarily driven by increased retail product costs, traffic acquisition costs, and royalties. Research and development expenses decreased $76 million or 11%, primarily as a result of capitalization of certain software development costs and completion of Windows 7 product development. Sales and marketing expenses increased $74 million or 6%. Server and Tools (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Revenue $ 3,844 $ 3,755 2% $ 7,278 $ 7,172 1% Operating income $ 1,491 $ 1,375 8% $ 2,767 $ 2,409 15% Server and Tools licenses products, applications, tools, content, and services that are designed to make information technology professionals and developers more productive and efficient. Server and Tools product offerings consist of server software licenses and client access licenses (CAL) for Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, and other server products. We also offer developer tools, training and certification. Our services offerings include Premier product support services and Microsoft Consulting Services. Server products can be run on-site, in a partner-hosted environment, or in a Microsoft-hosted environment. We use multiple channels for licensing, including pre-installed OEM versions, licenses through partners, and licenses directly to end customers. Approximately 50% of Server and Tools revenue comes from annuity volume licensing agreements, approximately 30% is purchased through transactional volume licensing programs, fully packaged product and licenses sold to OEMs, and the remainder comes from services. Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth in product revenue, offset in part by a decline in services revenue. Product revenue increased $103 million or 3%, primarily driven by growth in Windows Server, Enterprise CAL Suites and System Center revenue. The growth in product revenue reflects continued adoption of Windows platform applications. Services revenue declined $14 million or 2%, primarily due to decreased revenue from consulting services. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due to product revenue growth and a decrease in research and development expenses. Research and development expenses decreased $41 million or 7%, primarily driven by decreased headcount-related expenses and third-party development and programming costs. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 Server and Tools revenue increased reflecting growth in product revenue, offset in part by a decline in services revenue. Product revenue increased $138 million or 2%, primarily driven by growth in Enterprise CAL Suites, System Center and SQL Server revenue. The growth in product revenue reflects increased revenue from annuity volume licensing agreements and continued adoption of Windows platform applications. Services revenue declined $32 million or 2%, primarily due to decreased revenue from consulting services. Server and Tools operating income increased primarily due to product revenue growth and decreases in all operating expense categories. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $87 million or 4%, primarily due to a decrease in headcount-related expenses and corporate marketing expenses. Research and development expenses decreased $70 million or 6%, primarily driven by reduced third-party development and programming costs and headcount-related expenses. Cost of revenue decreased $66 million or 5%, reflecting the decline in demand for consulting services. General and administrative expenses decreased $27 million or 14%, due to decreased headcount-related expenses. PAGE 30 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Online Services Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Revenue $ 581 $ 609 (5)% $ 1,067 $ 1,132 (6)% Operating loss $ (466 ) $ (320 ) (46)% $ (950 ) $ (635 ) (50)% Online Services Division (OSD) consists of an online advertising platform with offerings for both publishers and advertisers, online information offerings, such as Bing, and the MSN portals and channels around the world. We earn revenue primarily from online advertising, including search, display, and advertiser and publisher tools. Revenue is also generated through subscriptions and transactions generated from online paid services and from MSN narrowband Internet access subscribers (Access). Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 OSD revenue decreased as a result of lower Access and online advertising revenue. Access revenue decreased $14 million or 29%, reflecting continued migration of subscribers to broadband or other competitively-priced service providers. Online advertising revenue decreased $11 million or 2%, to $516 million, reflecting a decrease in display advertising and advertiser and publisher tools revenue, offset in part by an increase in search revenue. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a $13 million or two percentage point increase in revenue. OSD operating loss increased mainly due to increased cost of revenue and decreased revenue, offset in part by decreased research and development expenses. Cost of revenue increased $171 million or 50%, primarily driven by higher online traffic acquisition costs. Research and development expenses decreased $49 million or 17%, primarily due to decreased third-party development and programming costs and headcount-related expenses. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 OSD revenue decreased primarily as a result of lower online advertising and Access revenue. Online advertising revenue decreased $32 million or 3%, to $934 million, primarily reflecting a decrease in display advertising and advertiser and publisher tools revenue. Access revenue decreased $28 million or 29%, reflecting continued migration of subscribers to broadband or other competitively-priced service providers. OSD operating loss increased mainly due to increased cost of revenue and decreased revenue, offset in part by decreased research and development expenses. Cost of revenue increased $347 million or 54%, primarily driven by higher online traffic acquisition costs. Research and development expenses decreased $88 million or 16%, primarily due to decreased third-party development and programming costs. Yahoo! Commercial Agreement On December 4, 2009, we entered into a definitive 10-year agreement with Yahoo! Inc. (Yahoo) whereby Microsoft will provide the exclusive algorithmic and paid search platform for Yahoo websites. We believe this agreement will allow us over time to improve the effectiveness and increase the value of our search offering through greater scale in search queries and an expanded and more competitive search and advertising marketplace. The transaction is subject to regulatory review; we expect to close the transaction in fiscal year 2010. Microsoft Business Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Revenue $ 4,745 $ 4,881 (3)% $ 9,149 $ 9,835 (7)% Operating income $ 3,010 $ 3,021 % $ 5,867 $ 6,199 (5)% PAGE 31 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Microsoft Business Division (MBD) offerings consist of the Microsoft Office system and Microsoft Dynamics business solutions. Microsoft Office system products are designed to increase personal, team, and organization productivity through a range of programs, services, and software solutions. Microsoft Office system offerings generate over 90% of MBD revenue. Microsoft Dynamics products provide business solutions for financial management, customer relationship management, supply chain management, and analytics applications for small and mid-size businesses, large organizations, and divisions of global enterprises. We evaluate our results based upon the nature of the end user in two primary parts: business revenue, which includes Microsoft Office system revenue generated through volume licensing agreements and Microsoft Dynamics revenue; and consumer revenue, which includes revenue from retail packaged product sales and OEM revenue. Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 MBD revenue decreased reflecting decreased business revenue partially offset by increased consumer revenue. Business revenue decreased $231 million or 6%, primarily reflecting a decline in licensing the 2007 Microsoft Office system to transactional business customers, offset in part by a 1% increase in Microsoft Dynamics revenue. Consumer revenue increased $95 million or 12%, primarily as a result of growth in the PC market. MBD operating income was flat reflecting decreased revenue, offset by decreased sales and marketing and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $81 million or 7%, primarily driven by a decrease in corporate marketing activities and headcount-related costs associated with our corporate sales force. Research and development expenses decreased $64 million or 15%, primarily as a result of capitalization of certain Microsoft Office system software development costs. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 MBD revenue decreased reflecting decreased business and consumer revenue. Business revenue decreased $392 million or 5%, primarily reflecting a decline in licensing the 2007 Microsoft Office system to transactional business customers and a 2% decrease in Microsoft Dynamics revenue, offset in part by growth in multi-year volume licensing agreement revenue. The growth in multi-year volume licensing agreement revenue primarily reflects recognition of deferred revenue from previously signed agreements. Consumer revenue decreased $295 million or 15%, primarily as a result of pricing promotions in the first half of fiscal year 2009 that drove increased licensing in that period, a shift to lower-priced products, and a decline in licensing the 2007 Microsoft Office system. MBD operating income decreased due mainly to decreased revenue, offset in part by decreased sales and marketing and research and development expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $262 million or 12%, primarily driven by a decrease in corporate marketing activities and headcount-related costs associated with our corporate sales force. Research and development expenses decreased $95 million or 11%, primarily as a result of capitalization of certain Microsoft Office system software development costs and lower headcount-related expenses. Entertainment and Devices Division (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Revenue $ 2,902 $ 3,256 (11)% $ 4,793 $ 5,149 (7)% Operating income $ 375 $ 130 188 % $ 686 $ 290 137 % Entertainment and Devices Division (EDD) offerings include the Xbox 360 platform (which includes the Microsoft Xbox 360 video game console system, Xbox 360 video games, Xbox LIVE, and Xbox 360 accessories), the Zune digital music and entertainment platform (including Zune HD, which was released in September 2009), PC software games, online games and services, Mediaroom (our Internet protocol television software), the Microsoft Surface computing platform, Windows Mobile and embedded device platforms, and other devices. EDD leads the development efforts for our line of consumer software and hardware products including application software for Apples Macintosh computers and Microsoft PC hardware products, and is responsible for all retail sales and marketing for Microsoft Office and Windows operating systems. PAGE 32 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 EDD revenue decreased reflecting a $295 million or 12% decline in Xbox 360 platform and PC game revenue. This decrease was due mainly to decreased revenue from Xbox 360 video games, decreased Xbox 360 consoles sold, and decreased revenue per console, offset in part by increased Xbox LIVE revenue. The decreased revenue from Xbox 360 video games was due primarily to the release of two significant games in the second quarter of the prior year. We shipped 5.2 million Xbox 360 consoles during the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, compared with 6.0 million Xbox 360 consoles during the second quarter of fiscal year 2009. The decreased revenue per console resulted from price reductions during the past 12 months. Non-gaming revenue decreased $59 million or 8%, primarily reflecting decreased sales of Zune digital music and entertainment devices and Windows Mobile device platforms. Foreign currency exchange rates accounted for a $49 million or two percentage point increase in revenue. EDD operating income increased due to reduced operating expenses. Cost of revenue decreased $478 million or 23%, primarily due to lower Xbox 360 console costs, offset in part by increased royalties to partners related to increased Xbox LIVE transactions. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $75 million or 15%, primarily due to decreased marketing for the Xbox 360 platform . Research and development expenses decreased $50 million or 10%, primarily reflecting decreased headcount-related expenses and third-party development and programming costs. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 EDD revenue decreased reflecting decreases in Xbox 360 platform and PC game revenue, as well as decreased revenue from the non-gaming portion of the business. Xbox 360 platform and PC game revenue decreased by $199 million or 5% due mainly to decreased Xbox 360 consoles sold, decreased revenue per console, and decreased revenue from Xbox 360 games, offset in part by increased Xbox LIVE revenue. We shipped 7.3 million Xbox 360 consoles during the first half of fiscal year 2010, compared with 8.3 million Xbox 360 consoles during the first half of fiscal year 2009. The decreased revenue per console resulted from price reductions during the past 12 months. The decreased revenue from Xbox 360 video games was due primarily to the release of two significant games in the second quarter of the prior year. Non-gaming revenue decreased $157 million or 11%, primarily reflecting decreased sales of Zune digital music and entertainment devices and Window Mobile device platforms. EDD operating income increased due to reduced operating expenses. Cost of revenue decreased $581 million or 19%, primarily due to lower Xbox 360 console costs, offset in part by increased royalties to partners related to increased Xbox LIVE transactions. Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $59 million or 8%, primarily due to decreased marketing for the Xbox 360 platform. Research and development expenses decreased $113 million or 12%, primarily reflecting decreased headcount-related expenses and third-party development and programming costs. Corporate-Level Activity (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Corporate-level activity $ (1,291 ) $ (979 ) (32)% $ (2,229 ) $ (2,086 ) (7)% Certain corporate-level activity is not allocated to our segments. Those results include expenses such as broad-based sales and marketing, product support services, human resources, legal, finance, information technology, corporate development and procurement activities, research and development and other costs, and legal settlements and contingencies. Corporate-level expenses increased, primarily reflecting an increase in legal charges, offset in part by cost controls and for the six months ended December 31, 2009, by decreased partner payments. Legal charges were approximately $290 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009. PAGE 33 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 OPERATING EXPENSES Cost of Revenue (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Cost of revenue $ 3,628 $ 3,907 (7)% $ 6,470 $ 6,755 (4)% As a percent of revenue 19 % 23 % (4)ppt 20 % 21 % (1)ppt Cost of revenue includes manufacturing and distribution costs for products sold and programs licensed, operating costs related to product support service centers and product distribution centers, costs incurred to drive traffic to our websites and/or acquire online advertising space (traffic acquisition costs), costs incurred to support and maintain Internet-based products and services, warranty costs, inventory valuation adjustments, costs associated with the delivery of consulting services, and the amortization of capitalized research and development costs associated with software products that have reached technological feasibility. Cost of revenue decreased reflecting decreased Xbox 360 platform costs and cost controls, offset in part by increased online costs, including traffic acquisition costs. Research and Development (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Research and development $ 2,079 $ 2,290 (9)% $ 4,144 $ 4,573 (9)% As a percent of revenue 11 % 14 % (3)ppt 13 % 14 % (1)ppt Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development. Research and development expenses also include third-party development and programming costs, localization costs incurred to translate software for international markets, the amortization of purchased software code and services content, and in-process research and development. The decrease in research and development expenses during the three months and six months ended December 31, 2009 was primarily driven by a decrease in third-party development and programming costs, a 3% reduction in headcount-related expenses, and the capitalization of certain software development costs. Sales and Marketing (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Sales and marketing $ 3,619 $ 3,662 (1)% $ 6,409 $ 6,706 (4)% As a percent of revenue 19 % 22 % (3)ppt 20 % 21 % (1)ppt Sales and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and marketing expenses decreased primarily as a result of decreased corporate marketing and advertising campaigns, and for the six months ended December 31, 2009, a 3% reduction in headcount-related expenses. PAGE 34 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 General and Administrative (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 General and administrative $ 1,124 $ 831 35% $ 1,865 $ 1,718 9% As a percent of revenue 6 % 5 % 1ppt 6 % 5 % 1ppt General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain human resources and other administrative headcount, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses increased during the three months and six months ended December 31, 2009 primarily driven by increased legal charges, offset in part by an 8% decrease in headcount-related expenses for the six months ended December 31, 2009. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE) AND INCOME TAXES Other Income (Expense) The components of other income (expense) were as follows: (In millions, except percentages) Three Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change Six Months Ended December 31, Percentage Change 2009 2008 2009 2008 Dividends and interest $ 159 $ 175 (9)% $ 324 $ 382 (15)% Net recognized gains on investments 92 270 (66)% 162 399 (59)% Net gains (losses) on derivatives 96 (409 ) * 92 (574 ) * Net gains (losses) on foreign currency remeasurements (23 ) (350 ) (93)% 32 (529 ) * Other 46 13 254 % 43 13 231 % Total $ 370 $ (301 ) * $ 653 $ (309 ) * * Not meaningful Three months ended December 31, 2009 compared with three months ended December 31, 2008 Dividends and interest decreased primarily due to increased interest expense on our long-term debt and lower interest rates on our fixed-income investments, offset in part by higher average investment portfolio balances. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to sales of certain equity investments held in our strategic investments portfolio in the prior period, offset in part by lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $6 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared with $262 million during the three months ended December 31, 2008 and decreased primarily due to improvements in market conditions. Net gains on derivatives increased across all asset classes in the current period as compared with losses in the prior period. Net losses from foreign currency remeasurements declined due to a weakening U.S. dollar. Other includes a gain on the divestiture of Razorfish. Six months ended December 31, 2009 compared with six months ended December 31, 2008 Dividends and interest decreased primarily due to increased interest expense on our long-term debt and lower interest rates on our fixed-income investments, offset in part by higher average investment portfolio balances. Net recognized gains on investments decreased primarily due to sales of certain equity investments held in our strategic investments portfolio in the prior period, offset in part by lower other-than-temporary impairments. Other-than-temporary impairments were $24 million during the six months ended December 31, 2009, as compared with $334 million during the six months ended December 31, 2008 and decreased primarily due to improvements in market conditions. Net gains on derivatives increased across all asset classes as compared to the prior period. Net gains from foreign currency remeasurements compared to net losses in the prior period were due to a weakening U.S. dollar. Other includes a gain on the divestiture of Razorfish. PAGE 35 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 25% for both the three months and six months ended December 31, 2009, as compared with 26% for the three months and 27% for the six months ended December 31, 2008. The fiscal year 2010 rate reflects a higher mix of foreign earnings taxed at lower rates. FINANCIAL CONDITION Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $36.1 billion as of December 31, 2009, compared with $31.4 billion as of June 30, 2009. Equity and other investments were $7.0 billion as of December 31, 2009, compared with $4.9 billion as of June 30, 2009. Our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual issuers. Our investments are generally liquid and investment grade. The portfolio is invested predominantly in U.S. dollar-denominated securities, but also includes foreign currency-denominated securities in order to diversify risk. We invest primarily in short-term securities to facilitate liquidity and for capital preservation. In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine fair value. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1 investments, such as exchange-traded mutual funds, domestic and international equities, U.S. treasuries, and agency securities. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 2 investments such as corporate notes and bonds, foreign government bonds, mortgage-backed securities, and certain agency securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally developed models with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are generally labeled as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In addition, all of our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. Such controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. While we own certain mortgage- and asset-backed fixed-income securities, our portfolio as of December 31, 2009 does not contain direct exposure to subprime mortgages or structured vehicles that derive their value from subprime collateral. The majority of the mortgage-backed securities are collateralized by prime residential mortgages and carry a 100% principal and interest guarantee, primarily from Federal National Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, and Government National Mortgage Association. We lend certain fixed-income and equity securities to increase investment returns. The loaned securities continue to be carried as investments on our balance sheet. Cash and/or security interests are received as collateral for the loaned securities with the amount determined based upon the underlying security lent and the creditworthiness of the borrower. Cash received is recorded as an asset with a corresponding liability. Debt In September 2008, our Board of Directors authorized debt financings of up to $6.0 billion. Our initial commercial paper program provided for the issuance and sale of up to $2.0 billion. Following the issuance of our long-term debt in May 2009, we increased the commercial paper program and issued an additional $250 million of commercial paper during the six months ended December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we had $2.25 billion of commercial paper and $3.75 billion of long-term debt issued and outstanding. PAGE 36 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Short-term Debt As of December 31, 2009, our $2.25 billion of commercial paper issued and outstanding had a weighted average interest rate, including issuance costs, of 0.14% and maturities of 16 to 210 days. In November 2009, we replaced our $2.0 billion and $1.0 billion credit facilities with a $2.25 billion 364-day credit facility, which expires on November 5, 2010. This facility serves as a back-up for our commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the financial covenant in the credit facility, which requires a coverage ratio maintained of at least three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization to interest expense. No amounts were drawn against the credit facilities during the six months ended December 31, 2009. Long-term Debt As of December 31, 2009, we had issued and outstanding $3.75 billion of debt securities as follows: $2.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.95% notes due 2014, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.20% notes due 2019, and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.20% notes due 2039 (collectively the Notes). Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 of each year to holders of record on the preceding May 15 and November 15. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated debt outstanding. We are using the net proceeds from sales of the debt securities for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of our capital stock, and acquisitions. Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue at December 31, 2009 comprised mainly unearned revenue from volume licensing programs. Unearned revenue from volume licensing programs represents customer billings for multi-year licensing arrangements, paid either upfront or annually at the beginning of each billing coverage period, which are accounted for as subscriptions with revenue recognized ratably over the billing coverage period. Unearned revenue at December 31, 2009 also included payments for: unspecified upgrades/enhancements of Microsoft Internet Explorer on a when-and-if-available basis for Windows XP; post-delivery support and consulting services to be performed in the future; Xbox LIVE subscriptions; Microsoft Dynamics business solutions products; unspecified enhancements for Zune HD; the Windows 7 Upgrade Option program; online advertising for which the advertisement has yet to be displayed; Mediaroom; and other offerings for which we have been paid upfront and earn the revenue when we provide the service or software, or otherwise meet the revenue recognition criteria. The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of December 31, 2009: (In millions) Three Months Ending, March 31, 2010 $ 4,975 June 30, 2010 3,384 September 30, 2010 1,924 December 31, 2010 1,078 Thereafter 1,167 Total $ 12,528 See Note 13 Unearned Revenue of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part I, Item 1). Retained Deficit As a result of the special dividend paid in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005 and common stock repurchased, our retained deficit, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $18.3 billion at December 31, 2009. Our retained deficit is not expected to affect our future ability to operate, pay dividends, or repay our debt given our continuing profitability and strong cash and financial position. PAGE 37 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Cash Flows Cash flow from operations increased $1.9 billion to $11.1 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was due mainly to payment of approximately $3.1 billion to the Internal Revenue Service in the prior year as a result of our settlement of the 2000-2003 audit examination, offset in part by a decrease in cash received from customers in the current year. Cash used for financing was $6.5 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $2.6 billion from the corresponding period of the prior year. This decrease was due mainly to a $3.9 billion decrease in common stock repurchases, offset in part by a $1.7 billion decrease in net proceeds from debt and short-term borrowings. Cash used in investing was $1.3 billion for the six months ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $613 million from the corresponding period of the prior year. This decrease reflects lower additions to property and equipment. Share Repurchases During the three months and six months ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased 125 million and 183 million shares of Microsoft common stock for $3.6 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, under the repurchase plan we announced on September 22, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $29.5 billion remained of the $40.0 billion approved repurchase amount. All repurchases were made using cash resources. The repurchase program expires September 30, 2013 but may be suspended or discontinued at any time without notice. Dividends Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the periods presented: Declaration Date Per Share Dividend Record Date Total Amount Payment Date (in millions) Fiscal year 2010 September 18, 2009 $ 0.13 November 19, 2009 $ 1,152 December 10, 2009 December 9, 2009 $ 0.13 February 18, 2010 $ 1,145 March 11, 2010 Fiscal year 2009 September 19, 2008 $ 0.13 November 20, 2008 $ 1,157 December 11, 2008 December 10, 2008 $ 0.13 February 19, 2009 $ 1,155 March 12, 2009 Other Planned Uses of Capital We will continue to invest in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced areas of technology. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new facilities, data centers, and computer systems for research and development, sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We have operating leases for most U.S. and international sales and support offices and certain equipment. We have not engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect liquidity or the availability of capital resources. We believe existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with funds generated from operations, should be sufficient to meet operating requirements, regular quarterly dividends, debt repayment schedules, and share repurchases. Our philosophy regarding the maintenance of a balance sheet with a large component of cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, and equity and other investments, reflects our views on potential future capital requirements relating to research and development, creation and expansion of sales distribution channels, investments and acquisitions, share dilution management, legal risks, and challenges to our business model. We regularly assess our investment management approach in view of our current and potential future needs. PAGE 38 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We provide indemnifications of varying scope and amount to certain customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of our products and certain other matters. In evaluating estimated losses on these indemnifications, we consider factors such as the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. To date, we have not encountered significant costs as a result of these obligations and have not accrued any liabilities related to these indemnifications in our financial statements. RECENT ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance On July 1, 2009, we adopted guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) on business combinations. The guidance retains the fundamental requirements that the acquisition method of accounting (previously referred to as the purchase method of accounting) be used for all business combinations, but requires a number of changes, including changes in the way assets and liabilities are recognized and measured as a result of business combinations. It also requires the capitalization of in-process research and development at fair value and requires the expensing of acquisition-related costs as incurred. We have applied this guidance to business combinations completed since July 1, 2009. On July 1, 2009, we adopted the guidance issued by the FASB that changes the accounting and reporting for non-controlling interests. Non-controlling interests are to be reported as a component of equity separate from the parents equity, and purchases or sales of equity interests that do not result in a change in control are to be accounted for as equity transactions. In addition, net income attributable to a non-controlling interest is to be included in net income and, upon a loss of control, the interest sold, as well as any interest retained, is to be recorded at fair value with any gain or loss recognized in net income. Adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. On July 1, 2009, we adopted the guidance on fair value measurement for nonfinancial assets and liabilities, except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). Adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on our financial statements. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance to amend the disclosure requirements related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. The guidance requires new disclosures on the transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 (quoted prices in active market for identical assets or liabilities) and Level 2 (significant other observable inputs) of the fair value measurement hierarchy, including the reasons and the timing of the transfers. Additionally, the guidance requires a roll forward of activities on purchases, sales, issuance, and settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value measurements). The guidance will become effective for us with the reporting period beginning January 1, 2010, except for the disclosure on the roll forward activities for Level 3 fair value measurements, which will become effective for us with the reporting period beginning July 1, 2011. Other than requiring additional disclosures, adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued guidance on revenue recognition that will become effective for us beginning July 1, 2010, with earlier adoption permitted. Under the new guidance on arrangements that include software elements, tangible products that have software components that are essential to the functionality of the tangible product will no longer be within the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance, and software-enabled products will now be subject to other relevant revenue recognition guidance. Additionally, the FASB issued guidance on revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables that are outside the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance. Under the new guidance, when vendor specific objective evidence or third party evidence for deliverables in an arrangement cannot be determined, a best estimate of the selling price is required to separate deliverables and allocate arrangement consideration using the relative selling price method. The new guidance includes new disclosure requirements on how the application of the relative selling price method affects the timing and amount of revenue recognition. We believe adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements. In June 2009, the FASB issued guidance on the consolidation of variable interest entities, which is effective for us beginning July 1, 2010. The new guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. We believe adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statements. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. Critical accounting policies for us include revenue recognition, impairment of investment securities, impairment of goodwill, accounting for research and development costs, accounting for contingencies, accounting for income taxes, accounting for stock-based compensation, and accounting for product warranties. PAGE 39 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 Revenue Recognition Software revenue recognition requires judgment, including whether a software arrangement includes multiple elements, and if so, whether vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value exists for those elements. A portion of the revenue related to Windows XP is recorded as unearned due to undelivered elements including, in some cases, free post-delivery telephone support and the right to receive unspecified upgrades/enhancements of Microsoft Internet Explorer on a when-and-if-available basis. The amount of revenue allocated to undelivered elements is based on the VSOE of fair value for those elements using the residual method or relative fair value method. Unearned revenue due to undelivered elements is recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the related products life cycles. Revenue related to Windows Vista is not subject to a similar deferral because there are no significant undelivered elements. However, Windows Vista revenue is subject to deferral as a result of the Windows 7 Upgrade Option program which started June 26, 2009. The program allowed customers who purchased certain versions of Windows Vista to receive an upgrade to the corresponding version of Windows 7 at minimal or no cost. In addition, purchasers of retail packaged Windows Vista from participating retailers in participating markets may have qualified for a free or discounted upgrade to the equivalent Windows 7 product when the product became generally available in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010. Accordingly, previously deferred revenue related to the undelivered Windows 7 product sold was recognized in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 once the product had been delivered. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and changes to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Judgment is also required to assess whether future releases of certain software represent new products or upgrades and enhancements to existing products. Impairment of Investment Securities Investments are reviewed quarterly for indicators of other-than-temporary impairment. This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology quarterly that considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, the duration and extent to which the fair value is less than cost, and for equity securities, our intent and ability to hold, or plans to sell, the investment. For fixed income securities, we also evaluate whether we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery. We also consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial health of and business outlook for the investee, including industry and sector performance, changes in technology, and operational and financing cash flow factors. Once a decline in fair value is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded to other income (expense) and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Goodwill Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1 for us) and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated using a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. PAGE 40 Table of Contents PART I Item 2 In connection with the disposal of Razorfish, we performed an interim impairment analysis of our Online Services Division goodwill balance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. No impairment of goodwill was identified. Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once technological feasibility is established, all software costs are capitalized until the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to manufacturing. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Disclosure of a contingency is required if there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss has been incurred. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial statements. Income Taxes The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entitys financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position should be measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of current and deferred income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our financial statements. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense and our results of operations could be impacted. Product Warranties We provide for the estimated costs of hardware and software warranties at the time the related revenue is recognized. For hardware warranty, we estimate the costs based on historical and projected product failure rates, historical and projected repair costs, and knowledge of specific product failures (if any). The specific hardware warranty terms and conditions vary depending upon the product sold and country in which we do business, but generally include parts and labor over a period generally ranging from 90 days to three years. For software warranty, we estimate the costs to provide bug fixes, such as security patches, over the life of the software. We regularly reevaluate our estimates to assess the adequacy of the recorded warranty liabilities and adjust the amounts as necessary. PAGE 41 Table of Contents PART I Item 3