Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This report, including "Part I Item 2 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Part II - Item 1A Risk Factors" contains certain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements regarding our strategy, financial performance and revenue sources. We use words such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "expect," "future," "intend" and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results could differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors including those set forth under "Risk Factors," beginning at page 40 and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q . Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We disclaim any obligation to update information contained in any forward-looking statement. These forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements regarding the following: The effects that adverse global economic conditions and fluctuations in the global credit and equity markets may have on our financial condition and results of operations; The effects and amount of competitive pricing pressure on our product lines; Our ability to moderate future average selling price declines; The effect of product mix, capacity utilization, yields, and fixed cost absorption on gross margin; The amount of changes in demand for our products and those of our customers; The level of orders that will be received and shipped within a quarter; The effect that distributor and customer inventory holding patterns will have on us; Our belief that customers recognize our products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel; Our belief that deferred cost of sales will have low risk of material impairment; Our belief that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching our customer base; Our ability to increase the proprietary portion of our analog and interface product lines and the effect of such an increase; The impact of any supply disruption we may experience; Our ability to effectively utilize our facilities at appropriate capacity levels and anticipated costs; That we adjust capacity utilization to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions; That our existing facilities and planned expansion activities provide sufficient capacity to respond to increases in demand; That manufacturing costs will be reduced by transition to advanced process technologies; Our expectation that our wafer fabs will operate at high levels with no under-absorption of fixed costs; Our ability to maintain manufacturing yields; Continuing our investments in new and enhanced products; Our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; The cost effectiveness of using our own assembly and test operations; Our anticipated level of capital expenditures; Continuation and amount of quarterly cash dividends; The sufficiency of our existing sources of liquidity; The impact of seasonality on our business; The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing employee equity awards; That the resolution of legal actions will not harm our business, and the accuracy of our assessment of the probability of loss and range of potential loss; That the idling of assets will not impair the value of such assets; The recoverability of our deferred tax assets; The adequacy of our tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities, having the appropriate support for our income tax positions and the accuracy of our estimated tax rate; Our belief that the expiration of any tax holidays will not have a material impact; The accuracy of our estimates of the useful life and values of our property, assets, and other liabilities; The adequacy of our patent strategy; 22 Our ability to obtain patents and intellectual property licenses and minimize the effects of litigation; The level of risk we are exposed to for product liability claims; The amount of labor unrest, public health issues, political instability, governmental interference and changes in general economic conditions that we experience; The effect of fluctuations in market interest rates on income and/or cash flows; The effect of fluctuations in currency rates; Our ability to collect accounts receivable; Our ability to hold our fixed income investments and certain auction rate securities (ARS) until the market recovers, and the immaterial impact this will have on our liquidity; The accuracy of our estimates used in valuing our available-for-sale securities; Our belief that unrealized losses in our investment portfolio do not represent other-than-temporary impairment; The accuracy of our estimation of the cost effectivity of our insurance coverage; Our belief that our activities are conducted in compliance with various regulations not limited to environmental and export compliance; and Our ability and intent to settle the principal amount of the junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. We begin our Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) with a summary of Microchip's overall business strategy to give the reader an overview of the goals of our business and the overall direction of our business and products. This is followed by a discussion of the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. We then discuss our Results of Operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009. We then provide an analysis of changes in our balance sheet and cash flows, and discuss our financial commitments in sections titled "Liquidity and Capital Resources," "Contractual Obligations" and "Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements." Strategy Our goal is to be a worldwide leader in providing specialized semiconductor products for a wide variety of embedded control applications. Our strategic focus is on embedded control products, which include microcontrollers, high-performance linear and mixed signal devices, power management and thermal management devices, interface devices, Serial EEPROMs, and our patented KeeLoq security devices. We provide highly cost-effective embedded control products that also offer the advantages of small size, high performance, low voltage/power operation and ease of development, enabling timely and cost-effective embedded control product integration by our customers. With the acquisition of SST, we have added Flash-IP solutions and SuperFlash memory products to our strategic focus. Our Flash-IP is t argeted for use in the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products. We sell our products to a broad base of domestic and international customers across a variety of industries. The principal markets that we serve include consumer, automotive, industrial, office automation and telecommunications. Our business is subject to fluctuations based on economic conditions within these markets. Our manufacturing operations include wafer fabrication and assembly and test. The ownership of our manufacturing resources is an important component of our business strategy, enabling us to maintain a high level of manufacturing control resulting in us being one of the lowest cost producers in the embedded control industry. By owning our wafer fabrication facilities and our assembly and test operations, and by employing statistical process control techniques, we have been able to achieve and maintain high production yields. Direct control over manufacturing resources allows us to shorten our design and production cycles. This control also allows us to capture the wafer manufacturing and a portion of the assembly and test profit margin. We employ proprietary design and manufacturing processes in developing our embedded control products. We believe our processes afford us both cost-effective designs in existing and derivative products and greater functionality in new product designs. While many of our competitors develop and optimize separate processes for their logic and memory product lines, we use a common process technology for both microcontroller and non-volatile memory products. This allows us to more fully leverage our process research and development costs and to deliver new products to market more rapidly. Our engineers utilize advanced computer-aided design (CAD) tools and software to perform circuit design, simulation and layout, and our in-house photomask and wafer fabrication facilities enable us to rapidly verify design techniques by processing test wafers quickly and efficiently. 23 We are committed to continuing our investment in new and enhanced products, including development systems, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. Our current research and development activities focus on the design of new microcontrollers, digital signal controllers, memory and mixed-signal products, Flash-IP solutions, new development systems, software and application-specific software libraries. We are also developing new design and process technologies to achieve further cost reductions and performance improvements in our products. We market our products worldwide primarily through a network of direct sales personnel and distributors. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product and technical support requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that our direct sales personnel combined with our distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. Our direct sales force focuses primarily on major strategic accounts in three geographical markets: the Americas, Europe and Asia. We currently maintain sales and support centers in major metropolitan areas in North America, Europe and Asia. We believe that a strong technical service presence is essential to the continued development of the embedded control market. Many of our field sales engi neers (FSEs), field application engineers (FAEs), and sales management have technical degrees and have been previously employed in an engineering environment. We believe that the technical knowledge of our sales force is a key competitive advantage in the sale of our products. The primary mission of our FAE team is to provide technical assistance to strategic accounts and to conduct periodic training sessions for FSEs and distributor sales teams. FAEs also frequently conduct technical seminars for our customers in major cities around the world, and work closely with our distributors to provide technical assistance and end-user support. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of Microchip's financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. We review the accounting policies we use in reporting our financial results on a regular basis. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, business combinations, share-based compensation, inventories, investments, income taxes, property plant and equipment, impairment of property, plant and equ ipment, impairment of intangible assets, junior subordinated convertible debentures and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results may differ from these estimates due to actual outcomes being different from those on which we based our assumptions. We review these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. We also have other policies that we consider key accounting policies, such as our policy regarding revenue recognition to OEMs; however, we do not believe these policies require us to make estima tes or judgments that are as difficult or subjective as our policies described below. Revenue Recognition - Distributors Our distributors worldwide generally have broad price protection and product return rights, so we defer revenue recognition until the distributor sells the product to their customer. Revenue is recognized when the distributor sells the product to an end-customer, at which time the sales price becomes fixed or determinable. Revenue is not recognized upon shipment to our distributors since, due to discounts from list price as well as price protection rights, the sales price is not substantially fixed or determinable at that time. At the time of shipment to these distributors, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable right to payment, relieve inventory for the carrying value of goods shipped since legal title has passed to the distributor, and record the gross marg in in deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. Deferred income on shipments to distributors effectively represents the gross margin on the sale to the distributor; however, the amount of gross margin that we recognize in future periods could be less than the deferred margin as a result of credits granted to distributors on specifically identified products and customers to allow the distributors to earn a competitive gross margin on the sale of our products to their end customers and price protection concessions related to market pricing conditions. 24 We sell the majority of the items in our product catalog to our distributors worldwide at a uniform list price. However, distributors resell our products to end customers at a very broad range of individually negotiated price points. The majority of our distributors' resales require a reduction from the original list price paid. Often, under these circumstances, we remit back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction is completed in the form of a credit against the distributors' outstanding accounts receivable balance. The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until they provide information to us regarding the sale to their end customer. The price reductions vary significantly based on the customer, produ ct, quantity ordered, geographic location and other factors and discounts to a price less than our cost have historically been rare. The effect of granting these credits establishes the net selling price to our distributors for the product and results in the net revenue recognized by us when the product is sold by the distributors to their end customers. Thus, a portion of the "deferred income on shipments to distributors" balance represents the amount of distributors' original purchase price that will be credited back to the distributor in the future. The wide range and variability of negotiated price concessions granted to distributors does not allow us to accurately estimate the portion of the balance in the deferred income on shipments to distributors account that will be credited back to the distributors. Therefore, we do not reduce deferred income on shipments to distributors or accounts receivable by anticipated future concessions; rather, price concessions are typically recorded against deferred income on shipments to distributors and accounts receivable when incurred, which is generally at the time the distributor sells the product. At December 31, 2010, we had approximately $207.8 million of deferred revenue and $65.1 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $142.7 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. At March 31, 2010, we had approximately $148.4 million of deferred revenue and $49.5 million in deferred cost of sales recognized as $98.9 million of deferred income on shipments to distributors. The deferred income on shipments to distributors that will ultimately be recognized in our income statement will be lower than the amount reflected on the balance sheet due to additional price credits to be granted to the distributors when the product is sold to their customers. These additional price credits historically have resulte d in the deferred income approximating the overall gross margins that we recognize in the distribution channel of our business. Distributor advances, reflected as a reduction of deferred income on shipments to distributors on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, totaled $70.0 million at December 31, 2010 and $57.5 million at March 31, 2010. On sales to distributors, our payment terms generally require the distributor to settle amounts owed to us for an amount in excess of their ultimate cost. The sales price to our distributors may be higher than the amount that the distributors will ultimately owe us because distributors often negotiate price reductions after purchasing the product from us and such reductions are often significant. It is our practice to apply these negotiated price discounts to future purchases, requiring the distributor to settle receivable balances, on a current basis, generally within 30 days, for amount s originally invoiced. This practice has an adverse impact on the working capital of our distributors. As such, we have entered into agreements with certain distributors whereby we advance cash to the distributors to reduce the distributor's working capital requirements. These advances are reconciled at least on a quarterly basis and are estimated based on the amount of ending inventory as reported by the distributor multiplied by a negotiated percentage. Such advances have no impact on our revenue recognition or our condensed consolidated statements of income. We process discounts taken by distributors against our deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance and true-up the advanced amounts generally after the end of each completed fiscal quarter. The terms of these advances are set forth in binding legal agreements and are unsecured, bear no interest on unsettled balances and are due upon demand. The agreements governing these advances can be cancelled by us at any time. We reduce product pricing through price protection based on market conditions, competitive considerations and other factors. Price protection is granted to distributors on the inventory they have on hand at the date the price protection is offered. When we reduce the price of our products, it allows the distributor to claim a credit against its outstanding accounts receivable balances based on the new price of the inventory it has on hand as of the date of the price reduction. There is no immediate revenue impact from the price protection, as it is reflected as a reduction of the deferred income on shipments to distributors' balance. Products returned by distributors and subsequently scrapped have historically been immaterial to our consolidated results of operations. We routinely evaluate the risk of impairment of the deferred cost of sales component of the deferred income on shipments to distributors account. Because of the historically immaterial amounts of inventory that have been scrapped, and historically rare instances where discounts given to a distributor result in a price less than our cost, we believe the deferred costs are recorded at their approximate carrying value. 25 Business Combinations All of our business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method of accounting, (i) acquisition-related costs, except for those costs incurred to issue debt or equity securities, will be expensed in the period incurred; (ii) non-controlling interests will be valued at fair value at the acquisition date; (iii) IP R&D will be recorded at fair value as an intangible asset at the acquisition date and amortized once the technology reaches technological feasibility; (iv) restructuring costs associated with a business combination will be expensed subsequent to the acquisition date; and (v) changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date will be recognized through income tax expense or directly in con tributed capital. We acquired SST on April 8, 2010 in a business combination that is accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. At June 30, 2010, we completed a preliminary purchase price allocation. The estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed were based on preliminary estimates and may change as we complete our analysis. The difference between the purchase price and the preliminary fair value of net identifiable assets acquired was recorded as goodwill. Upon finalization of the purchase price allocation, any resulting goodwill will be allocated to the reporting units. Refer to Note 3 for a summary of the April 8, 2010 preliminary purchase price allocation. Share-Based Compensation We measure fair value and recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including grants of employee stock options, RSUs and employee stock purchase rights, to be recognized in our financial statements based on their respective grant date fair values. Total share-based compensation during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 was $27.8 million, of which $22.4 million was reflected in operating expenses. Total share-based compensation reflected in cost of sales during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 was $5.4 million. Total share-based compensation included in our inventory balance was $3.2 million at December 31, 2010. Determining the appropriate fair-value model and calculating the fair value of share-based awards at the date of grant requires judgment. The fair value of our RSUs is based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant discounted for expected future dividends. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock options and rights to purchase shares under employee stock purchase plans. Option pricing models, including the Black-Scholes model, also require the use of input assumptions, including expected volatility, expected life, expected dividend rate, and expected risk-free rate of return. We use a blend of historical and implied volatility based on options freely traded in the open market as we believe this is more reflective of mark et conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using purely historical volatility. The expected life of the awards is based on historical and other economic data trended into the future. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the terms of our awards. The dividend yield assumption is based on our history and expectation of future dividend payouts. We estimate the number of share-based awards which will be forfeited due to employee turnover. Quarterly changes in the estimated forfeiture rate can have a significant effect on reported share-based compensation, as the effect of adjusting the rate for all expense amortization after April 1, 2006 is recognized in the period the forfeiture estimate is changed. If the actual forfeiture rate is higher or lower than the estimated forfeiture rate, then an adjustment is made to increase or decrease the estimated forfeiture rate, which wi ll result in a decrease or increase to the expense recognized in our financial statements. If forfeiture adjustments are made, they would affect our gross margin, research and development expenses, and selling, general and administrative expenses. The effect of forfeiture adjustments through the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was immaterial. We evaluate the assumptions used to value our awards on a quarterly basis. If factors change and we employ different assumptions, share-based compensation expense may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. If there are any modifications or cancellations of the underlying unvested securities, we may be required to accelerate, increase or cancel any remaining unearned share-based compensation expense. Future share-based compensation expense and unearned share-based compensation will increase to the extent that we grant additional equity awards to employees or we assume unvested equity awards in connection with acquisitions. Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or market using the first-in, first-out method. We write down our inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory in an amount equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those we projected, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Inventory impairment charges establish a new cost basis for inventory and charges are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that increased carrying amounts are recoverable. In estimating our inventory obsolescence, we primarily evaluate estimates of demand over a 12-month period and record impairment charges for inventory on hand in excess of the estimated 12-month demand. 26 In periods where our production levels are substantially below our normal operating capacity, such as in the first half of fiscal 2010, the reduced production levels of our manufacturing facilities are charged directly to cost of sales. Approximately $22.3 million was charged to cost of sales in the first nine months of fiscal 2010 as a result of decreased production in our wafer fabs. There were no such charges in the first three quarters of fiscal 2011. Investments Available-for-Sale and Trading Securities We classify our investments in debt and marketable equity securities as available-for-sale or trading securities based on management's intent with regard to the investments and the nature of the underlying securities. Our available-for-sale investments consist of government agency bonds, municipal bonds, ARS, corporate bonds, and marketable equity securities. Our investments are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in stockholders' equity. Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related available-for-sale security. Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned. The cost of securities sold is calculated using the specific identification method. We include within our short-term investments our trading securities, as well as our income yielding available-for-sale securities that can be readily converted to cash and include within long-term investments those income yielding available-for-sale securities with maturities of over one year that have unrealized losses attributable to them or those that cannot be readily liquidated. We have the ability to hold our long-term investments with temporary impairments until such time as these assets are no longer impaired. Such recovery of unrealized losses is not expected to occur within the next year. Due to the lack of availability of observable market quotes on certain of our investment portfolio of ARS, we utilize valuation models including those that are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation of our ARS investment portfolio is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Factors that may impact our ARS valuation include changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk, the ongoing strength and quality of the credit markets and market liquidity. The credit markets experienced significant deterioration and uncertainty beginning in the second half of fiscal 2008. If these conditions recur, or we experience any additional ratings downgrades on any investments in our portfolio (including our ARS), we may incur additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Non-Marketable Investments Our non-marketable equity investments are recorded using adjusted cost basis or the equity method of accounting, depending on the circumstances of each investment. Our non-marketable investments are classified within other assets on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Our non-marketable equity investments include: Equity Method Investments : When we have the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control, over the investee, we record equity method gain or loss as "gain or loss from equity investments." Equity method adjustments include our proportionate share of the investee's income or loss. Cost Method Investments : When we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over the investee, we record such investments at cost. Non-marketable investments are inherently risky, and a number of the companies in which we invest could fail. Their success is dependent on successful product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. Depending on their future prospects, the companies may not be able to raise additional funds when the funds are needed or they may receive lower valuations, with less favorable investment terms than in previous financings, and our investments would likely become impaired. Additionally, financial markets and credit markets are volatile, which could negatively affect the prospects of the companies we invest in, their ability to raise additional capital, and the likelihood of our being able to realize value in our investments through liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. We review these investments quarterly for indicators of impairment. The impairment review requires significant judgment and includes quantitative and qualitative analysis of identified events or circumstances that impact the fair value of the investment, such as: 27 the investee's revenue and trends in earnings or losses relative to pre-defined milestones and overall business prospects; the technological feasibility of the investee's products and technologies; the general market conditions in the investee's industry or geographic area, including adverse regulatory or economic changes; factors related to the investee's ability to remain in business, such as the investee's liquidity, debt ratios, and the rate at which the investee is using its cash; and the investee's receipt of additional funding at a lower valuation. If the fair value of an investment is below our carrying value, we determine if the investment is other than temporarily impaired based on our quantitative and qualitative analysis, which includes assessing the severity and duration of the impairment and the likelihood of recovery before disposal. If the investment is considered to be other than temporarily impaired, we write down the investment to its fair value. There were no impairments to our non-marketable investments during the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income within the relevant jurisdiction and to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance. We have not provided for a valuation allowance because we beli eve that it is more likely than not that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. Should we determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. At December 31, 2010, our gross deferred tax asset was $107.6 million. Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business scrutinize the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. We are currently under audit by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008. Our fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2010 are open for examination by the tax authorities. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain adequate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabil ities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than an ultimate assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Major renewals and improvements are capitalized, while maintenance and repairs are expensed when incurred. At December 31, 2010, the carrying value of our property and equipment totaled $528.2 million, which represented 18.7% of our total assets. This carrying value reflects the application of our property and equipment accounting policies, which incorporate estimates, assumptions and judgments relative to the useful lives of our property and equipment. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, which range from 5 to 7 years on manufacturing equipment, from 10 to 15 years on leasehold improvements and approximately 30 years on buildings. We began production activities at Fab 4 on October 31, 2003. We began to depreciate the Fab 4 assets as they were placed in service for production purposes. As of December 31, 2010, all of the buildings and supporting facilities were being depreciated as well as the manufacturing equipment that had been placed in service. All manufacturing equipment that was not being used in production activities was maintained in projects in process and is not being depreciated until it is placed into service since management believes there will be no change to its utility from the present time until it is placed into productive service. The lives to be used for depreciating this equipment at Fab 4 will be evaluated at such time as the assets are placed in service. We do not believe that the tempor ary idling of such assets has impaired the estimated life or carrying values of the underlying assets. The estimates, assumptions and judgments we use in the application of our property and equipment policies reflect both historical experience and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations. The use of different estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding the useful lives of our property and equipment and expectations regarding future industry conditions and operations, could result in materially different carrying values of assets and results of operations. 28 Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment We assess whether indicators of impairment of long-lived assets are present. If such indicators are present, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the assets in question is less than their carrying value. If less, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets over their respective fair values. Fair value is determined by discounted future cash flows, appraisals or other methods. If the assets determined to be impaired are to be held and used, we recognize an impairment loss through a charge to our operating results to the extent the present value of anticipated net cash flows attributable to the asset are less than the asset's carrying value, which we depreciate over the remaining estimated useful life of the asset. We may incur impairment losses, or additional losses on already impaired assets, in future periods if factors influencing our estimates change. Impairment of Intangible Assets We evaluate intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in economic circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. The factors considered in deciding when to perform an impairment review include significant under-performance of a product line, significant negative industry or economic trends, and significant changes or planned changes in the use of the assets. Recoverability of assets that will continue to be used in operations are measured by comparing the carrying amount of the asset grouping to the estimate of the related total future net cash flows. If an asset carrying value is not recoverable through the related cash flows, the asset is considered to be impaired. The impairment is measured by the difference between the asset grouping's carryi ng amount and its fair value, based on the best information available, including market prices or discounted cash flow analysis. When we determine that the useful lives of assets are shorter than originally estimated, and there are sufficient cash flows to support the carrying value of the assets, we will accelerate the rate of amortization charges in order to fully amortize the assets over their new shorter useful lives. Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures We separately account for the liability and equity components of our junior subordinated convertible debentures in a manner that reflects our nonconvertible debt (unsecured debt) borrowing rate when interest cost is recognized. This results in a bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component in equity and the accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to be recognized as part of interest expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, certain embedded features of the debentures qualify as derivatives and are bundled as a compound embedded derivative that is measured at fair value. Lastly, we include the dilutive effect of the shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the outstanding junior subordinated convertible debentures in our diluted income per share calculation regardless of whether the market price trigger or other contingent conversion feature has been met. We apply the treasury stock method as we have the intent and current ability to settle the principal amount of the junior subordinated convertible debentures in cash. This method results in incremental dilutive shares when the average fair value of our common stock for a reporting period exceeds the conversion price per share which was $29.04 at December 31, 2010 and adjusts as dividends are recorded in the future. Contingencies In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in a limited number of legal actions, both as plaintiff and defendant, and could incur uninsured liability in any one or more of them. We also periodically receive notifications from various third parties alleging infringement of patents, intellectual property rights or other matters. With respect to pending legal actions to which we are a party, although the outcomes of these actions are not generally determinable, we believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. Litigation relating to the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and we are, and from time to time have been, subject to such litigation. No assurances can be given w ith respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future. Significant Developments in Our Business On April 8, 2010, we acquired Silicon Storage Technology, Inc. (SST), a public company based in Sunnyvale, California, in a merger transaction for $3.05 per share, or a total of $353.8 million, which included $295.4 million of cash consideration for the outstanding shares of SST common stock, and $58.4 million of SST shares acquired by us on March 8, 2010. The fair value of the SST shares held by us on April 8, 2010, was equal to the fair value at March 8, 2010, the date the shares were acquired, and we did not recognize any gain or loss on such shares. The SST business acquired included a variety of different business units including a licensing business focused on 29 opportunities in the embedded control market, a microcontroller business, a variety of memory businesses and a Wi-Fi business. Our primary reason for this acquisition was to gain access to SST's SuperFlash technology and extensive patent portfolio, which we believe are critical building blocks for advanced microcontrollers. See Note 3 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our SST acquisition. The amount of continuing SST revenue included in the condensed consolidated statements of income for the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $56.8 million. The operations of SST have been fully integrated into our operations as of October 1, 2010 and as such, cost of sales and operating expenses are no longer segregated in the three months ended December 31, 2010. The amount of continuing SST revenue and earnings included in our condensed consolidated statements of income for the period April 9, 2010 to September 30, 2010 was $114.9 million and $17.4 million, respectively. Results of Continuing Operations The following table sets forth certain operational data as a percentage of net sales for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended December 31, Nine Months Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2010 2009 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales 41.2 41.6 41.4 45.4 Gross profit 58.8 58.4 58.6 54.6 Research and development 11.5 12.1 11.4 13.0 Selling, general and administrative 15.2 17.3 15.4 18.0 Special charges 0.2 --- 0.2 0.2 Operating income 31.9 % 29.0 % 31.6 % 23.4 % Net Sales We operate in two industry segments and engage primarily in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of semiconductor products as well as the licensing of Flash intellectual property. We sell our products to distributors and original equipment manufacturers, referred to as OEMs, in a broad range of market segments, perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and generally require no collateral. In certain circumstances, a customer's financial condition may require collateral, and, in such cases, the collateral would be provided primarily by letters of credit. Our net sales for the quarter ended December 31, 2010 were $367.8 million, a decrease of 3.8% from the previous quarter's sales of $382.3 million, and an increase of 47.1% from net sales of $250.1 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2009. Our net sales for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 were $1,107.2 million, an increase of 65.3% from net sales of $669.7 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in net sales in the quarter ended December 31, 2010 over the previous quarter was due primarily to general semiconductor industry conditions. The increases in net sales in the quarter ended December 31, 2010 compared to the quarter ended December 31, 2009, and for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009, were due pr imarily to improving semiconductor industry conditions, market share gains in our microcontroller and analog product lines, and an increase in net sales due to our acquisition of SST. Average selling prices for our silicon products were up approximately 4% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 over the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. Average selling prices for our silicon products were down approximately 3% for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 over the corresponding period of the previous fiscal year. The number of units of our silicon products sold was up approximately 34% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 66% for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 over the corresponding periods of the previous fiscal year. The average selling prices and the unit volumes of our sales are impacted by the mix of our products sold and overall semiconductor market conditions. Key factors related to the amount of net sales during the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 include: 30 global economic conditions in the markets we serve; semiconductor industry conditions; our acquisition of SST; inventory holding patterns of our customers; increasing semiconductor content in our customers' products; customers' increasing needs for the flexibility offered by our programmable solutions; our new product offerings that have increased our served available market; and continued market share gains. Sales by product line for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31, (unaudited) Nine Months Ended December 31, (unaudited) 2010 % 2009 % 2010 % 2009 % Microcontrollers $ 251,015 68.2 $ 202,416 80.9 $ 752,922 68.0 $ 544,477 81.3 Memory products 53,512 14.6 21,182 8.5 170,400 15.4 56,999 8.5 Analog and interface products 44,239 12.0 26,501 10.6 132,211 11.9 68,233 10.2 Technology licensing 19,058 5.2 --- --- 51,687 4.7 --- --- Total sales $ 367,824 100.0 $ 250,099 100.0 $ 1,107,220 100.0 $ 669,709 100.0 Microcontrollers Our microcontroller product line represents the largest component of our total net sales. Microcontrollers and associated application development systems accounted for approximately 68.2% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 68.0% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to approximately 80.9% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 81.3% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. The primary reason for the decrease in our microcontroller sales as a percentage of our total sales is our acquisition of SST which resulted in an increase in our memory product and technology licensing sales. Net sales of our microcontroller products increased approximately 24.0% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 38.3% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. These sales increases were driven primarily by improving semiconductor conditions in the end markets that we serve including the consumer, automotive, industrial control, communications and computing markets, as well as market share gains. Historically, average selling prices in the semiconductor industry decrease over the life of any particular product. The overall average selling prices of our microcontroller products have remained relatively constant over time due to the proprietary nature of these products. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience pricing pressure in certain microcontroller product lines, primarily due to competitive conditions. We have been able in the past, and expect to be able in the future, to moderate average selling price declines in our microcontroller product lines by introducing new products with more features and higher prices. We may be unable to maintain average selling prices for our microcontroller products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would ad versely affect our operating results. Memory Products Sales of our memory products accounted for approximately 14.6% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 15.4% of our total net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to approximately 8.5% of our total net sales for each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. The reason for the increase in our memory product sales as a percentage of our total sales is the acquisition of SST's SuperFlash memory products. 31 Net sales of our memory products increased approximately 152.6% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 199.0% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the SST memory product sales, our memory products sales increased 12.5% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 28.5% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year periods. These increases in our overall memory product sales were driven primarily by increased revenue due to our acquisition of SST, improving semiconductor industry conditions and by customer demand conditions within the Serial EEPROM and Flash memory markets. Memory product pricing has historically been cyclical in nature, with steep price declines followed by periods of relative price stability, driven by changes in industry capacity at different stages of the business cycle. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, varying degrees of competitive pricing pressures in our memory products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our memory products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. Analog and Interface Products Sales of our analog and interface products accounted for approximately 12.0% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 11.9% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to approximately 10.6% of our total net sales for the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and 10.2% of our total net sales for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. Net sales of our analog and interface products increased approximately 66.9% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 93.8% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. These sales increases were driven primarily by improving semiconductor industry conditions, market share gains achieved within the analog and interface market and increased revenue due to the acquisition of SST. Excluding the SST analog product sales, our analog and interface products sales increased 45.0% in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 72.2% in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to the prior year periods. Analog and interface products can be proprietary or non-proprietary in nature. Currently, we consider more than 65% of our analog and interface product mix to be proprietary in nature, where prices are relatively stable, similar to the pricing stability experienced in our microcontroller products. The non-proprietary portion of our analog and interface business will experience price fluctuations, driven primarily by the current supply and demand for those products. We may be unable to maintain the average selling prices of our analog and interface products as a result of increased pricing pressure in the future, which would adversely affect our operating results. We anticipate the proprietary portion of our analog and interface products will continue to increase over time. Technology Licensing Technology licensing revenue from our acquisition of SST includes a combination of royalties associated with SST's technology licensed for the manufacture of advanced microcontroller products and fees for engineering services. Technology licensing accounted for approximately 5.2% of our total net sales for the three months ended December 31, 2010, and approximately 4.7% of our total net sales for the period April 9, 2010 through December 31, 2010. Revenue from technology licensing can fluctuate over time due to semiconductor industry and general economic conditions. Distribution Distributors accounted for approximately 54% of our net sales in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 60% of our net sales in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009. Distributors accounted for approximately 56% of our net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 61% of our net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. Our distributors focus primarily on servicing the product requirements of a broad base of diverse customers. We believe that distributors provide an effective means of reaching this broad and diverse customer base. We believe that customers recognize Microchip for its products and brand name and use distributors as an effective supply channel. Our largest distributor accounted for approximately 10% of our net sales in each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 compared to approximately 12% of our net sales in each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. Generally, we do not have long-term agreements with our distributors and we, or our distributors, may terminate our relationships with each other with little or no advanced notice. The loss of, or the disruption in the operations of, one or more of our distributors could reduce our future net sales in a given quarter and could result in an increase in inventory returns. 32 At December 31, 2010, our distributors maintained 39 days of inventory of our products compared to 41 days of inventory at March 31, 2010. Over the past three fiscal years, the days of inventory maintained by our distributors have fluctuated between 31 days and 42 days. We do not believe that inventory holding patterns at our distributors will materially impact our net sales, due to the fact that we recognize revenue based on sell-through for all our distributors. Sales by Geography Sales by geography for the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended December 31 , (unaudited) Nine Months Ended December 31 , (unaudited) 2010 % 2009 % 2010 % 2009 % Americas $ 76,615 20.8 $ 59,311 23.7 $ 230,864 20.9 $ 164,678 24.6 Europe 81,220 22.1 60,059 24.0 240,277 21.7 164,062 24.5 Asia 209,989 57.1 130,729 52.3 636,079 57.4 340,969 50.9 Total sales $ 367,824 100.0 $ 250,099 100.0 $ 1,107,220 100.0 $ 669,709 100.0 Our sales to foreign customers have been predominately in Asia and Europe, which we attribute to the manufacturing strength in those areas for automotive, communications, computing, consumer and industrial control products. Americas sales include sales to customers in the U.S., Canada, Central America and South America. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 80% of our net sales in each of the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010. Sales to foreign customers accounted for approximately 78% of our net sales in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 77% of our net sales in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. Substantially all of our foreign sales are U.S. Dollar denominated. The primary reason our sales to customers in Asia have increased in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 over the same periods last year was due to our acquisition of SST whose sales are more heavily weighted to Asian customers compared to the rest of our business. Further, sales to customers in Asia have generally increased over time due to many of our c ustomers transitioning their manufacturing operations to Asia and growth in demand from the emerging Asian market. Our sales force in the Americas and Europe supports a significant portion of the design activity for products which are ultimately shipped to Asia. Gross Profit Our gross profit was $216.4 million in the three months ended December 31, 2010 and $146.0 million in the three months ended December 31, 2009. Our gross profit was $648.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and $365.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Gross profit as a percent of sales was 58.8% in the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 58.4% in the three months ended December 31, 2009. Gross profit as a percentage of sales was 58.6% in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 54.6% in the nine months ended December 31, 2009. The most significant factors affecting our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this report were: production levels being at or above normal capacity levels in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and below the range of our normal capacity, resulting in under absorption of fixed costs, in the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009; the addition of licensing and SuperFlash Memory revenue in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as a result of our acquisition of SST; and fluctuations in the product mix of microcontrollers, proprietary and non-proprietary analog products and Serial EEPROM products. Other factors that impacted our gross profit percentage in the periods covered by this report include: for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and the nine months ended December 31, 2009, inventory write-downs being higher than the gross margin impact of sales of inventory that was previously written down; for the nine months ended December 31, 2010, inventory write-downs being lower than the gross margin impact of sales of inventory that was previously written down; continual cost reductions in wafer fabrication and assembly and test manufacturing, such as new manufacturing technologies and more efficient manufacturing techniques; and lower depreciation as a percentage of cost of sales. 33 We adjust our capacity utilization as required to respond to actual and anticipated business and industry-related conditions. We operated at or above normal capacity levels, which we typically consider to be 90% to 95% of the actual capacity of our installed equipment, during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, as a result of adverse economic conditions, we operated below normal capacity levels. As a result, approximately $1.7 million and $22.3 million was charged to cost of sales in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009, respectively, as a result of decreased production. In the future, if production levels are below normal capacity, we will charge cost of sales for the unabsorbed capacity. The process technologies utilized in our wafer fabs impact our gross margins. Fab 2 currently utilizes various manufacturing process technologies, but predominantly utilizes our 0.5 to 1.0 micron processes. Fab 4 predominantly utilizes our 0.22 to 0.5 micron processes. We continue to transition products to more advanced process technologies to reduce future manufacturing costs. All of our production has been on 8-inch wafers during the periods covered by this report. Our overall inventory levels were $177.7 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $116.6 million at March 31, 2010. We maintained 107 days of inventory on our balance sheet at December 31, 2010 compared to 97 days of inventory at March 31, 2010. Our inventory levels at December 31, 2010 were at the lower end of the range we have experienced over the past three years. We expect to grow our inventory levels in the March 2011 quarter to allow us to shorten our lead times and improve our delivery performance to our customers. We anticipate that our gross margins will fluctuate over time, driven primarily by capacity utilization levels, the overall mix of microcontroller, analog and interface, memory products and technology licensing revenue and the percentage of net sales of each of these products in a particular quarter, as well as manufacturing yields, fixed cost absorption, and competitive and economic conditions in the markets we serve. At December 31, 2010, approximately 60% of our assembly requirements were performed in our Thailand facility compared to approximately 67% of our assembly requirements at December 31, 2009. The percentage of our assembly work that is performed internally fluctuates over time based on supply and demand conditions in the semiconductor industry and our internal capacity capabilities. Third-party contractors located in Asia perform the balance of our assembly operations. At December 31, 2010, approximately 88% of our test requirements were performed in our Thailand facility compared to substantially all of our test requirements being performed in our Thailand facility over the same period last year. We believe that the assembly and test operations performed at our Thailand facility provide us with significant cost savings when compared to contractor assembly and test costs, as well as increased control over these portions of the manufacturing process. The primary reason for the decrease in the portion of assembly and test operations performed in our Thailand facility in the fiscal 2011 period over the fiscal 2010 period was due to our acquisition of SST which outsourced 100% of its assembly and test operations. We rely on outside wafer foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication requirements. As a result of our acquisition of SST, we have become more reliant on outside foundries for our wafer fabrication requirements. In the nine months ended December 31, 2010, approximately 20% of our total net sales related to products which were purchased from outside wafer foundries. Our use of third parties involves some reduction in our level of control over the portions of our business that we subcontract. While we review the quality, delivery and cost performance of our third-party contractors, our future operating results could suffer if any third-party contractor is unable to maintain manufacturing yields, assembly and test yields and costs at approximately their current levels. Research and Development (R&D) R&D expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2010 were $42.2 million, or 11.5% of net sales, compared to $30.3 million, or 12.1% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2009. R&D expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 were $126.4 million, or 11.4% of net sales, compared to $87.5 million, or 13.0% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. We are committed to investing in new and enhanced products, including development systems software, and in our design and manufacturing process technologies. We believe these investments are significant factors in maintaining our competitive position. R&D costs are expensed as incurred. Assets purchased to support our ongoing research and development activities are capitalized when rela ted to products which have achieved technological feasibility or that have alternative future uses and are amortized over their expected useful lives. R&D expenses include labor, depreciation, masks, prototype wafers, and expenses for the development of process technologies, new packages, and software to support new products and design environments. 34 R&D expenses increased $11.9 million, or 39.1%, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 over the same period last year. R&D expenses increased $38.9 million or 44.5%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the dollar increases in R&D costs over these periods were higher salary and bonus costs related to restoring previous reductions in compensation programs due to improving business conditions and additional costs from our acquisition of SST. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended December 31, 2010 were $56.1 million, or 15.2% of net sales, compared to $43.1 million, or 17.3% of net sales, for the three months ended December 31, 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 were $170.9 million or 15.4% of net sales, compared to $120.5 million or 18.0% of net sales, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary and other expenses related to field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, advertising and promotional expenditures and legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses also include costs related to our direct sales for ce and field applications engineers who work in sales offices worldwide to stimulate demand by assisting customers in the selection and use of our products. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $13.0 million, or 30.2%, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 over the same period last year. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $50.4 million, or 41.8%, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 over the same period last year. The primary reasons for the dollar increases in selling, general and administrative costs over these periods were higher salary and bonus costs related to restoring previous reductions in compensation programs due to improving business conditions and additional costs from our acquisition of SST. Special Charges During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010, we incurred $0.6 million and $1.7 million, respectively, of severance-related and office closure costs associated with our acquisition of SST. During the three months ended June 30, 2009, we agreed to the terms of a patent license with an unrelated third-party and signed an agreement on July 9, 2009. The patent license settled alleged infringement claims. The total payment made to the third party in July 2009 was $1.4 million, $1.2 million of which was expensed in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 and the remaining $0.2 million was recorded as a prepaid royalty that was amortized over the remaining life of the patent, which expired in June 2010. Other Income (Expense) Interest income in the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 decreased to $4.0 million from $4.9 million in the three-month period ended December 31, 2009. Interest income in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 decreased to $12.4 million from $12.7 million in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. The primary reason for the decreases in interest income in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 over the same periods last year was due to lower interest rates applying to our short-term investments. Interest expense related to our 2.125% junior subordinated convertible debentures in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 was $7.7 million and $23.5 million, respectively, compared to $7.8 million and $23.3 million, respectively, in the three a nd nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. Other income, net in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 was $0.4 million and $1.7 million, respectively, compared to other income, net of $0.1 million and $7.9 million, respectively, in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in other income, net in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 over the same period last year primarily relates to a $7.5 million gain on trading securities during the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 as a result of market fluctuations in the value of certain strategic investments in publicly traded companies, which we classified as trading securities. There were no such gains or losses on trading securities during the three or nine months ended December 31, 2010 or the three months ended December 31, 2009. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes reflects tax on foreign earnings and federal and state tax on U.S. earnings. We had an effective tax rate from continuing operations of 10.9% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 0.7% for the three-month period ended December 31, 2009. We had an effective tax rate from continuing operations of 12.4% for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 and 8.2% for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. Our effective tax rate is lower than statutory rates in the U.S. due primarily to our mix of earnings in foreign jurisdictions with lower tax rates, changes in tax regulations and the reinstatement of the R&D tax credit in the quarter ended December 31, 2010. In the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2009, our effective tax ra te was lowered as a result of a tax settlement with the I.R.S. in the three months ended December 31, 2009. 35 Various taxing authorities in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business are increasing their scrutiny of the tax structures employed by businesses. Companies of our size and complexity are regularly audited by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions in which they conduct significant operations. For U.S. federal, and in general for U.S. state tax returns, our fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2010 tax returns remain open for examination by the authorities. We are currently under audit by the I.R.S. for our fiscal years ended March 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008. We recognize liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional tax payments are probable. We believe that we maintain ad equate tax reserves to offset any potential tax liabilities that may arise upon these and other pending audits in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business. If such amounts ultimately prove to be unnecessary, the resulting reversal of such reserves would result in tax benefits being recorded in the period the reserves are no longer deemed necessary. If such amounts ultimately prove to be less than any final assessment, a future charge to expense would be recorded in the period in which the assessment is determined. Our Thailand manufacturing operations currently benefit from numerous tax holidays that have been granted to us by the Thailand government based on our investments in property, plant and equipment in Thailand. Our tax holiday periods in Thailand expire at various times in the future. Any expiration of our tax holidays are expected to have a minimal impact on our overall tax expense due to other tax holidays and an increase in income in other taxing jurisdictions with lower statutory rates. Results of Discontinued Operations As a result of our acquisition of SST, certain of SST's product lines have been marketed for sale based on management's decision regarding them not being a strategic fit into our product portfolio. The discontinued businesses include various memory product lines. For financial statement purposes, the net assets and results of operations for these discontinued businesses have been segregated from those of the continuing operations and are presented in the our condensed consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations and assets held for sale. On May 21, 2010, we completed a transaction to sell one of the businesses acquired from SST to Greenliant Systems, Ltd. The sale price in this transaction was determined by management to represent fair value, and accordingly, no gain or loss was recognized on the sale of the net assets. In this sale, we disposed of approximately $23.6 million of assets held for sale, primarily comprised of inventory, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and non-marketable securities. Consideration in the transaction was in the form of cash and notes receivable from Greenliant Systems, Ltd. On July 8, 2010, we granted an exclusive limited license for certain Serial NOR-Flash products to PCT. The license is limited to certain industry segments and geographic regions and excludes certain multinational customers. At the time of the SST acquisition, we determined that we would hold SST's SuperFlash Memory and RF businesses as assets held for sale, in addition to other businesses that we have sold since the acquisition date. After operating the SST business for two quarters, we found synergies between SST's RF business and our wireless, microcontroller and analog businesses. On the memory side, after divesting the low margin business to PCT, we had substantially improved the gross margin for the rest of the SuperFlash Memory business. We also determined that running some volume on the memory business is critical to proving out the SuperFlash technology before it can be licensed. As a result, we decided to integrate the SuperFlash Memory and RF businesses of SST into our ongoing businesses during the secon d quarter of fiscal 2011. The net loss from discontinued operations in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 was $1.2 million and $5.1 million, respectively. Contributing to the net loss from discontinued operations in the three and nine-month periods ended December 31, 2010 was $1.3 million and $3.6 million, respectively, of inventory write-downs related to discontinued operations. At December 31, 2010, assets held for sale totaled $1.1 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had $1,573.0 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments at December 31, 2010, an increase of $41.5 million from the March 31, 2010 balance. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments over this time period is primarily attributable to cash generated from operating activities being offset by dividend payments of $256.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and cash of $112.7 million used to acquire SST, net of cash received in that acquisition. Net cash provided from operating activities was $430.1 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to $344.0 million for the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009. The increase in cash flow from operations in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010 compared to the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 was primarily due to higher net income in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2009 being partially offset by $87.0 million of trading securities which were sold in the June 2009 quarter. 36 During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, net cash used in investing activities was $217.4 million. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, net cash used in investing activities was $263.1 million. The decrease in net cash used in investing activities was due primarily to a reduction in our net purchases, sales and maturities of short-term and long-term investments, offset by the purchase of SST on April 8, 2010 and higher capital expenditures in the nine-month period ended December 31, 2010. Net cash used in financing activities was $204.2 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $166.0 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Proceeds from the exercise of stock options and employee purchases under our employee stock purchase plans were $51.4 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and $18.6 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. We paid cash dividends to our stockholders of $256.8 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and $186.6 million in the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Our level of capital expenditures varies from time to time as a result of actual and anticipated business conditions. Capital expenditures in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 were $100.1 million compared to $28.4 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. The higher capital expenditure activity in the nine months ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year was primarily driven by increased production requirements to support increases in revenue. Capital expenditures are primarily for the expansion of production capacity and the addition of research and development equipment. We currently intend to spend approximately $100 million during the next twelve months to invest in equipment and facilities to maintain, and selectively increase, capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. We expect to finance capital expenditures through our existing cash balances and cash flows from operations. We believe that the capital expenditures anticipated to be incurred over the next twelve months will provide sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet our currently anticipated needs. We enter into derivative transactions from time to time in an attempt to reduce our exposure to currency rate fluctuations. Although none of the countries in which we conduct significant foreign operations has had a highly inflationary economy in the last five years, there is no assurance that inflation rates or fluctuations in foreign currency rates in countries where we conduct operations will not adversely affect our operating results in the future. At December 31, 2010, we had no foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. On December 11, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 10.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2010, we had repurchased 7.5 million shares under this 10.0 million share authorization for a total of $234.7 million. There is no expiration date associated with this program. The timing and amount of future repurchases will depend upon market conditions, interest rates, and corporate considerations. As of December 31, 2010, we held approximately 30.5 million shares as treasury shares. On October 28, 2002, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved and instituted a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock. A quarterly dividend of $0.344 per share was paid on December 2, 2010 in the aggregate amount of $64.5 million. A second cash dividend of $0.345 per share was paid on December 27, 2010 in the aggregate amount of $65.0 million. The second cash dividend was an acceleration of the dividend that would normally have been paid in March 2011. Our Board is free to change our dividend practices at any time and to increase or decrease the dividend paid, or not to pay a dividend on our common stock on the basis of our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements and future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board. Our current intent is to provide for ongoing quarterly cash dividends depending upon market conditions and our results of operations. We believe that our existing sources of liquidity combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our currently anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, the semiconductor industry is capital intensive. In order to remain competitive, we must constantly evaluate the need to make significant investments in capital equipment for both production and research and development. We may seek additional equity or debt financing from time to time to maintain or expand our wafer fabrication and product assembly and test facilities, or for acquisitions or other purposes. The timing and amount of any such financing requirements will depend on a number of factors, including demand for our products, changes in industry conditions, product mix, competitive factors and our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates. There can be no assurance that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, and any additional equity financing would result in incremental ownership dilution to our existing stockholders. 37 Contractual Obligations There have not been any material changes in our contractual obligations from what we disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2010, we are not involved in any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a description of recently issued accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 2 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements.