Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements that are often identified by the use of future events and future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the meaning, that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions. In addition to those factors discussed under Item 1ARisk Factors, important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. These factors include, but are not limited to: adverse economic conditions; general decreases in demand for our products and services; changes in timing of introducing new products into the market; intense competition (including entry of new competitors), including among competitors with substantially greater resources than us; increased or adverse federal, state, and local government regulation; inadequate capital; unexpected costs; revenues and net income lower than anticipated; litigation; the possible fluctuation and volatility of operating results and financial conditions; the impact of legal, regulatory, or supervisory matters on our business, results of operations, or financial condition; inability to carry out our marketing and sales plans; the loss of key employees and executives; our sales and marketing strategy, including our international sales and channel partner strategy; customer product adoption and purchasing patterns, including renewal, expansion and conversion from on-premises to cloud services; managements plans, beliefs and objectives for future operations; our ability to provide compelling, uninterrupted and secure cloud services to our customers; the impact of geopolitical events; our acquisitions, including the expected impacts of such acquisitions; expected impact of changes in accounting pronouncements and other financial and non-financial reporting standards; exposure to interest rate changes; inflation; and the impact of climate change, natural disasters and actual or threatened public health emergencies. These statements represent the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on the information currently available to us. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified above, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included in Part I, Item 1A. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligations to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Mitek Systems, Inc. (Mitek, the Company, we, us, and our) is a leading innovator of mobile image capture and digital identity verification solutions. We are a software development company with expertise in computer vision, artificial intelligence and machine learning. We currently serve more than 7,900 financial services organizations and leading marketplace and financial technology (fintech) brands around the globe. Customers count on Mitek to deliver trusted and convenient online experiences, detect and reduce fraud, and meet Know Your Customer (KYC) and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) regulatory compliance. The Companys solutions are embedded in native mobile apps and web browsers to facilitate digital consumer experiences. Miteks identity verification and authentication technologies and services make it possible for banks, financial services organizations and the worlds leading marketplace and sharing platforms to verify an individuals identity during numerous stages of the customer lifecycle, allowing them to reduce risk and meet regulatory requirements. The Companys advanced mobile deposit system enables secure, fast and convenient deposit services. Thousands of organizations use Mitek solutions to optimize the security of mobile check deposits, new account openings and more. In May of 2021, Mitek acquired ID R&D, Inc. (ID R&D and such acquisition, the ID R&D Acquisition), an award-winning provider of AI-based voice and face biometrics and liveness detection. ID R&D delivers innovative, biometric capabilities that raise the bar on usability and performance. The ID R&D Acquisition helps simplify and secure the entire transaction lifecycle for both businesses and consumers, provides businesses and financial institutions with access to one authentication solution to deploy throughout the entire transaction cycle, and can provide consumers with a simple, intuitive approach to fighting fraud. In March of 2022, Mitek acquired HooYu Ltd. (HooYu), a leading KYC technology provider in the United Kingdom. Such technology helps to ensure businesses know the true identity of their customers by linking biometric verification with real-time data aggregation across many different sources, including credit bureaus, international sanctions lists, local law-enforcement, and others. Mitek markets and sells its products and services worldwide through internal, direct sales teams located in the U.S., Europe, and Latin America as well as through channel partners. Our partner sales strategy includes channel partners who are financial services technology providers and identity verification providers. These partners integrate our products into their solutions to meet the needs of their customers, typically provisioning Mitek services through their respective platforms. Product and Technology Overview Technology During the twelve months ended September 30, 2023, we had one operating segment: the development, sale, and service of our proprietary software solutions related to mobile image capture and identity verification. Our digital technology solutions are provided in two parts: (i) a software development kit for mobile image capture and (ii) a cloud software platform which uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to classify and extract data to enable mobile check deposit as well as aid the authentication of identity documents including passports, identity cards, and driver's licenses using a camera-equipped device. Our technology uses patented algorithms that analyze images of identity documents in many ways. These include image quality analysis, image repair and optimization, document identification and classification, data extraction, and numerous authenticators. Products Mobile Deposit Miteks Mobile Deposit solution is used today by millions of consumers in the United States and Canada for mobile check deposit. Mobile Deposit enables individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Mobile Deposit is embedded within the financial institutions digital banking apps used by consumers and now processes more than one billion check deposits annually. Mitek began selling Mobile Deposit in early 2008 and received its first patent for this product in August 2010. Mobile Deposit allows consumers to take photographs of the front and back of a check and then remotely deposit the check all within their financial institutions mobile banking app. Mitek delivers a simple and easy user experience with our proprietary mobile automatic capture which assists users in capturing a high quality image of a check by holding their mobile device over the check. 1 Mobile Verify Mobile Verify is an identity verification solution that can be integrated into mobile apps, mobile websites, and desktop applications. Mobile Verify combines an optimal image capture experience with our leading document authentication technology helping our customers validate an identity document presented in a digital transaction is genuine and unaltered. Adding a second layer for identity proofing, Mobile Verify matches the portrait extracted from the identity document with a selfie of its presenter by doing a biometric face comparison. The Mobile Verify identity verification engine is a modular cross-platform architecture that uses machine learning and advanced computer vision algorithms. To achieve the highest accuracy rates, Miteks technology was conceptualized to verify the authenticity of an identity document in the following systematic approach: Guided document capture, enabling users to take a quality photo for optimal processing; Document classification computer vision algorithms that recognize and classify thousands of diverse identity documents from around the world allowing for reliable data extraction; Data extraction that goes beyond traditional Optimal Character Recognition (OCR) to deconstruct the document and analyze the content of each field; and Evaluation of authenticity elements, using a combination of machine learning techniques and unique computer vision algorithms to help determine the authenticity of a document by evaluating several elements within the document. Mobile Fill Mobile Fill, which includes automatic image capture, minimizes the number of clicks and expedites form fill completion. In mere seconds, and just by taking a photo of an identity document, people can easily complete application forms and quickly become approved customers. Organizations can use Mobile Fill for a variety of purposes, including streamlining the process of opening a checking, savings, or credit card account, paying a bill, activating an offer, and more. Mobile Fill is available for native apps and web browser applications. MiSnap Mitek MiSnap is a patented mobile-capture software development kit (SDK) that enables an intuitive user experience and instant capture of quality images of identity documents and checks. The key to successful mobile check deposit, data pre-fill and ID document verification is the quality of the image capture. Mitek's MiSnap helps enable every user to capture a quality image the first time. CheckReader CheckReader enables financial institutions to automatically extract data from checks once they have been scanned or photographed by the application. Easily integrated into mobile and server-based applications providing automatic image pre-processing and recognition capabilities, CheckReader allows for the automatic recognition of all fields on checks and generic payments documents, whether handwritten or machine printed. CheckReader is utilized as a core component throughout a wide range of check processing applications, including ATMs, centralized and back office processes, remittance, merchants, and fraud applications. CheckReader is deployed worldwide in over forty countries. Check Fraud Defender The premier AI-powered and cloud-hosted model for fighting check fraud, Check Fraud Defender uses Miteks proprietary check image science to spot visual anomalies in checks submitted by participating banks to better isolate suspected fraud and reduce bank and consumer losses. Check Fraud Defender helps banks fight check fraud by analyzing more than 18 visual elements of a check to give a more comprehensive view of possible fraud. Check Intelligence Check Intelligence enables financial institutions to automatically extract data from a check image received across any deposit channelbranch, ATM, remote deposit capture, and mobile. Through the automatic recognition of all fields on checks, whether handwritten or machine printed, Check Intelligence speeds up the time to deposit for banks and customers and helps enable financial institutions to comply with check clearing regulations. With built-in image quality analysis and image usability analysis, Check Intelligence also ensures that the check meets the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act requirements and other industry and regulatory standards. Mitek Verified Identity Platform (MiVIP) MiVIP is an end-to-end KYC platform that helps companies to quickly design, build, and deploy robust KYC journeys with little or no development resources. We combine facial biometrics, liveness detection, ID document validation, database checks, geolocation, digital footprint analysis, and more to provide the clearest picture of who is requesting access to a business services. The 2 platform provides robust identity verification through comprehensive document verification, biometric comparison, and liveness detection. The platform also simplifies the end user experience with omni-channel journey support in which users can easily switch between a mobile and desktop experience without losing their journey progress, or pause and pick up their journey at a later time via a different device. MiPass MiPass, with its state-of-the-art facial and voice biometric capabilities, provides increased protection against todays most sophisticated forms of identity theft and increasingly dangerous fraud techniques, such as deepfakes and synthetic identities. These technologies ensure the highest level of security against evolving threats while delivering a superior consumer experience. As more interactions move online, passwords are a challenging and a highly imperfect solution for granting account access to customers. Asking trusted customers to re-assert their identity at every touchpoint only leads to frustration and abandonment and passwords leave customers vulnerable to identity theft and account takeover attacks. The availability, simplicity, and convenience of biometrics on consumer devices has opened the door for organizations in all industries to transform the trusted customer experience. MiPass strengthens a businesss trust in a consumers real-world identity using a sophisticated combination of biometrics that are extremely difficult to falsify face, liveness detection, and voice allowing organizations to replace passwords and one-time passcodes with biometric authentication that can be easily embedded into existing platforms and customer experiences. ID_CLOUD ID_CLOUD is a fully automated identity verification solution that can be integrated into a customers application to instantly read and validate identity documents. ID_CLOUD automated technology enables global enterprises to improve their customer acquisition technology while meeting AML requirements in a safe and cost-effective manner. This solution is available in the cloud, via mobile websites, and desktop applications. Additionally, a version of ID_CLOUD is available that works locally on a desktop which is connected to a propriety hardware scanner for reading and validating identity documents. IDLive Face IDLive Face is the industrys first passive facial liveness detection product. The technology is critical to frictionless fraud prevention in solutions that use face biometrics for authentication and digital identity proofing. IDLive Face is iBeta Levels 1 and 2 Presentation Attack Detection (PAD) compliant and is used to process millions of monthly transactions for customers worldwide. IDVoice IDVoice is a robust AI-driven voice biometric engine that enables fast, convenient authentication on mobile, web, and telephone channels. The product is also optimized to enable embedded security and personalization on Internet of Things devices. IDVoice has achieved top rankings in the industrys leading benchmark challenges. IDLive Voice IDLive Voice helps stop spoofing attacks on voice biometric systems by distinguishing live voice from synthesized speech, voice deepfakes, and recordings. IDLive Doc IDLive Doc works to fight fraud related to digitally displayed document images. This AI-based product validates the physical presence of documents used when verifying customer identities online. The product can be added to any onboarding or electronic KYC solution, providing another layer of fraud prevention for banks, gig economy companies, telecom companies, and others. Sales and Marketing We derive revenue predominately from the sale of licenses (to both our on premise and transactional software as a service (SaaS) products) and transaction fees to use our products, and to a lesser extent by providing maintenance and professional services for the products we offer. The revenue we derive from the sale of such licenses is derived from both the sale to our channel partners of licenses to sell the applications we offer as well as the direct sale of licenses and services to customers. We have an internal marketing group that develops corporate and digital marketing strategies. The internal team executes these strategies with the help of external resources as needed to support both direct sales and channel partners sales efforts. Intellectual Property Our success depends in large part upon our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights primarily through a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party non-disclosure agreements, and other measures. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product development, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and 3 maintaining a technological leadership position. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. Further, there can be no assurance that our patents will offer any protection or that they will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or we infringe on the intellectual property rights of a third-party, our operating results could be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2023, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued us 100 patents with expiration dates ranging from 2026 through 2037 and we have filed for 20 additional domestic and international patents. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with certain employees. Market Opportunities, Challenges & Risks We believe that financial institutions, fintechs, and other companies see our patented solutions as a way to provide a superior digital customer experience to meet growing consumer demands of trust and convenience online and, at the same time, assist them in meeting regulatory requirements. The value of digital transformation to our customers is a possible increase in top line revenue and a reduction in the cost of sales and service. As the use of new technology increases, so does associated fraud and cyber-attacks. The negative outcomes of fraud and cyber-attacks encompass financial losses, brand damage, and loss of loyal customers. We predict growth in our deposits business as a result of the increased consumer adoption of digital financial services provided to them by their banks and identity verification products based on current trends in payments, online lending, more stringent regulations, growing usage of sharing apps and online marketplaces, and the ever-increasing demand for digital services. Factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, our digital solutions, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for digital transactions, or negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate, could result in lower revenues or gross margins. Further, because substantially all of our revenues are from a few types of technology, our product concentration may make us especially vulnerable to market demand and competition from other technologies, which could reduce our revenues. The sales cycle for our software and services can be lengthy and the implementation cycles for our software and services by our channel partners and customers can also be lengthy, often as long as six months and sometimes longer for larger customers. If implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers is delayed or otherwise not completed, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Revenues related to most of our on premise licenses for mobile products are required to be recognized up front upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. Revenue related to our SaaS products is recognized ratably over the life of the contract or as transactions are used depending on the contract criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the term of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers, and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. During each of the last few years, sales of licenses to one or more channel partners have comprised a significant portion of our revenue each year. This is attributable to the timing of renewals or purchases of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop. We have a growing number of competitors in the mobile image capture and identity verification industry, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources. However, we believe our patented mobile image capture and identity verification technology, our growing portfolio of products and coverage for the financial services industry and our market expertise gives us a distinct competitive advantage. To remain competitive, we will continue to offer products that are attractive to the consumer as well as being compliant, accurate, and convenient. To help us remain competitive, we intend to further our investment in research and development as well as partnering with other technology providers. Competition The market for our products and solutions is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by the introduction of new products or technologies and other market activities of industry participants. We face direct and indirect competition from a broad range of competitors who offer a variety of products and solutions to our current and potential customers. Our principal competition comes from: (i) customer-developed solutions; (ii) companies offering alternative methods of identity verification; (iii) companies offering competing technologies capable of mobile remote deposit capture or authenticating identity documents and facial photo comparison; and (iv) alternate forms of user authentication, including face and voice recognition. It is also possible that we will face competition from new industry participants or alternative technologies. Moreover, as the market for automated document processing, image recognition and authentication, check imaging, and fraud detection software 4 develops, a number of companies with significantly greater resources than we have could attempt to enter or increase their presence in our industry, either independently or by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors, or otherwise increase their focus on the industry. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our current and potential customers. Our products are compliant with Service-Oriented Architecture standards and compete, to various degrees, with products produced by a number of substantial competitors. Competition among product providers in this market generally focuses on price, accuracy, reliability, global coverage, and technical support. We believe our primary competitive advantages in this market are: (i) our mobile auto image capture user experience used by millions of consumers; (ii) our patented data science; (iii) scalability; and (iv) an architectural software design that allows our products to be more readily modified, improved with added functionality, and configured for new products, thereby allowing our software to be easily upgraded. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Research and Development We develop software products internally and also purchase or license rights to third-party intellectual property. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products, and develop new products that meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Internal research and development allows us to maintain closer technical control over our products and gives us the ability to determine which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented to ensure the proper functioning and improved performance of our products. We intend to expand our existing product offerings and introduce new mobile image capture and digital identity verification capabilities that meet a broader set of needs of our customers. We intend to continue to support the major industry standard operating environments. Our research and development organization includes software engineers and scientists, many of whom have advanced degrees, as well as additional personnel in quality assurance and related disciplines. All our scientists and software engineers are involved in product development. The development team includes specialists in artificial intelligence, computer vision, software engineering, user interface design, product documentation, product management, and quality assurance. The team is responsible for maintaining and enhancing the performance, quality, and utility of all of our products. In addition to research and development, our engineering staff provides customer technical support on an as-needed basis. Human Capital Resources As of September 30, 2023, we had 590 employees, 160 in the U.S. and 430 internationally, 573 of which are full time. Our total employee base consists of 329 sales and marketing, professional services, and document review employees, 189 research and development and support employees, and 72 employees in executive, finance, network administration, and other capacities. In addition, we engaged various consultants in the areas of research and development, product development, finance, and marketing during fiscal year 2023. We have never had a work stoppage and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization. Substantially all of our employees, other than a certain number of our executive officers and employees with customary employment arrangements within Europe, are at will employees, which means that each employee can terminate his or her relationship with us and we can terminate our relationship with him or her at any time. We offer industry competitive wages and benefits and are committed to maintaining a workplace environment that promotes employee productivity and satisfaction. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. We are also focused on understanding our diversity and inclusion strengths and opportunities and executing on a strategy to support further progress. We continue to focus on building a pipeline for talent to create more opportunities for workplace diversity and to support greater representation within the Company. Available Information We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are required to file reports and information with the SEC, including reports on the following forms: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and other information concerning us may be accessed, free of charge, through the SECs website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.miteksystems.com. These reports are placed on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor is it in any way a part of, this Form 10-K. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risk Factor Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission before making investment decisions regarding our common stock. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from a few types of technologies. If these technologies and the related products do not achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. We cannot predict the impact that the decline of the use of checks, changes in consumer behavior facilitated by advances in technologies, and the development of check alternatives, or the plateau of the penetration of active mobile banking users may have on our business. Claims that our products infringe upon the rights, or have otherwise utilized proprietary information, of third parties may give rise to costly litigation against us or our customers who we may be obligated to indemnify, and we could be prevented from selling those products, required to pay damages, and obligated to defend against litigation or indemnify our customers. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. We face competition from several companies that may have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share. We must continue to engage in extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation, sales and profitability. Our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays may impair our operating results. Our historical order flow patterns, which we expect to continue, have caused forecasting difficulties for us. If we do not meet our forecasts or analysts forecasts for us, the price of our common stock may decline. Entry into new lines of business, and our offering of new products and services, resulting from our acquisitions may result in exposure to new risks. Adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology solutions may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. We may need to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations and an inability to raise the necessary capital or the inability to do so on acceptable terms could threaten the success of our business. We expect to incur additional expenses related to the integration of ID R&D, Inc. and HooYu Ltd. We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with the respective businesses of ID R&D, and HooYu and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Our actual financial and operating results following the acquisitions of ID R&D and HooYu could differ materially from any expectations or guidance provided by us concerning our future financial and operating results. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated greatly in the past and will likely continue to do so, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our common stock price. We face risks related to the storage of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information. Our products may not provide absolute security. We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. Due to our operations in non-U.S. markets, we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our international operations may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax, and other laws and regulations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. 6 We have a history of losses and we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future. An ownership change could limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, which could result in our payment of income taxes earlier than if we were able to fully utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions at which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Our business could be adversely affected in the event we default under our debt agreements. Our revenues are dependent on our ability to maintain and expand existing customer relationships and our ability to attract new customers. Evolving domestic and international data privacy regulations may restrict our ability, and that of our customers, to solicit, collect, process, disclose and use personal information or may increase the costs of doing so, which could harm our business. From time-to-time our Board explores and considers strategic alternatives, including financings, strategic alliances, acquisitions, or the possible sale of our company. Our Board may not be able to identify or complete any suitable strategic alternatives, and announcements regarding any such strategic alternatives could have an impact on our operations or stock price. Future sales of our common stock by our insiders may cause our stock price to decline. A potential proxy contest for the election of directors at our annual meeting could result in potential operational disruption, divert our resources, and could potentially result in adverse consequences under certain of our agreements. Our corporate documents and the Delaware General Corporation Law (the DGCL) contain provisions that could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of our company, prevent attempts to replace or remove current management, and reduce the market price of our stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and third amended and restated bylaws provide for indemnification of officers and directors at our expense and limits their liability, which may result in a major cost to us and hurt the interests of our stockholders because corporate resources may be expended for the benefit of officers and/or directors. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and your investment in our stock could suffer a decline in value. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, our stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if our stock price appreciates in value. As a result of our failure to timely file this Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended September 30, 2023, and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2023, we are currently ineligible to file new short form registration statements on Form S-3 or to have resale registration statements declared effective in a timely manner, which may impair our ability to raise capital on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all. Our third amended and restated bylaws provide that a state or federal court located within in the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel, or if any of our key executives or key employees discontinues his or her employment with us, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. Legislation and governmental regulations enacted in the U.S. and other countries that apply to us or to our customers may require us to change our current products and services and/or result in additional expenses, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Future sales of our common stock could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If financial or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they issue negative or misleading evaluations of our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if our remediation of such material weaknesses is not effective, or if we fail to develop and maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations could be impaired. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events may disrupt our business. 7 Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, projected results, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment or interest. Risks Associated With Our Business and Operations We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from a few types of technologies. If these technologies and the related products do not achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from license sales and services provided with our software products to customers incorporating our intelligent mobile imaging technology and software products. If we are unable to achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance of our core technologies or products incorporating such technologies, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. Additionally, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our products and services, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile image processing, negative publicity, or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact that the decline of the use of checks, changes in consumer behavior facilitated by advances in technologies, and the development of check alternatives, or the plateau of the penetration of active mobile banking users may have on our business. Over the last few years, the use of checks has started to decline. Advances in technologies have enabled the development of check alternatives like Zelle and Venmo, which have caused certain changes in consumer behavior. As check alternatives become more widely accepted by consumers, the use of checks could continue to decline, which could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, as the mobile banking market matures, the growth of active mobile banking users is slowing, which may negatively impact our ability to grow our business. Claims that our products infringe upon the rights, or have otherwise utilized proprietary information, of third parties may give rise to costly litigation against us or our customers who we may be obligated to indemnify, and we could be prevented from selling those products, required to pay damages, and obligated to defend against litigation or indemnify our customers. In the past, third parties have brought claims against us and against our customers who use our products asserting that certain technologies incorporated into our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Although we have resolved past claims against us that we have infringed on third-party patents, there can be no assurance that we will not receive additional claims against us asserting that our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our products otherwise utilize such third parties proprietary information. On July 7, 2018, United Services Automobile Association (USAA) filed a lawsuit against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) in the Eastern District of Texas alleging that Wells Fargos remote deposit capture systems (which in part utilize technology provided by the Company to Wells Fargo through a partner) infringe four USAA owned patents related to mobile deposits (the First Wells Lawsuit). On August 17, 2018, USAA filed a second lawsuit (the Second Wells Lawsuit and together with the First Wells Lawsuit, the Wells Lawsuits) against Wells Fargo in the Eastern District of Texas asserting that an additional five patents owned by USAA were infringed by Wells Fargos remote deposit capture system. In neither lawsuit was the Company named in the Complaint as an infringer and at no time did USAA allege specifically that the Companys products by themselves infringed any of the asserted patents. Subsequently, on November 6, 2019, a jury in the First Wells Lawsuit found that Wells Fargo willfully infringed at least one of the Subject Patents (as defined below) and awarded USAA $200 million in damages. In the Second Wells Lawsuit, USAA dropped two of the patents from the litigation, and the judge in the case found that one of the remaining three patents was invalid. On January 10, 2020, a jury in the Second Wells Lawsuit found that Wells Fargo willfully infringed at least one of the patents at issue in that case and awarded USAA $102 million in damages. No Mitek product was accused of infringing either of the two patents in question in the Second Wells Lawsuit as the litigation involved broad banking processes and not the Companys specific mobile deposit features. USAA and Wells Fargo subsequently reached a settlement, and on April 1, 2021, the Court granted the parties joint motion and stipulation of dismissal of the Wells Lawsuits with prejudice. Wells Fargo filed petitions for Inter Partes Review (IPR) with the Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB)challenging the validity of the four patents in the First Wells Lawsuit. Three of those four petitions were instituted, while one (relating to U.S. Patent No. 9,818,090 (the 090 Patent)) was denied institution. On November 24, 2020, and January 26, 2021, the PTAB issued final written decisions determining that Wells Fargo had not demonstrated by a preponderance of the evidence that any claims of the U.S. Patent Nos. 8,977,571 (the 571 Patent), 8,699,779 (the 779 Patent), or 9,336,517 (the 517 Patent) were unpatentable. 8 On September 30, 2020, USAA filed suit against PNC Bank (the First PNC Lawsuit) in the Eastern District of Texas alleging infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 10,482,432 (the 432 Patent) and 10,621,559. These two patents are continuations of an asserted patent in the Second Wells Lawsuit and relate to similar subject matter. On October 19, 2020, PNC Banks integration partner, NCR Corporation, sent an indemnification demand to the Company requesting indemnification from all claims related to the First PNC Lawsuit. The complaint against PNC Bank does not claim that any Company product infringes any of the asserted patents. At this time, the Company does not believe it is obligated to indemnify NCR Corporation or end-users of NCR Corporation resulting from the patent infringement allegations by USAA. On December 4, 2020, USAA filed an amended complaint against PNC Bank also asserting two patents at issue in the First Wells Lawsuitthe 779 Patent and the 571 Patent. On February 2, 2021, NCR Corporation sent a second indemnification demand to the Company requesting indemnification of the claims described in the amended complaint. On March 31, 2021, USAA filed another suit against PNC Bank in the Eastern District of Texas alleging infringement of two patents from the Second Wells Lawsuit, U.S. Patent Nos. 10,013,605 (the 605 Patent) and 10,013,681 (the 681 Patent) (the Second PNC Lawsuit). On July 7, 2021, USAA filed a third lawsuit against PNC Bank (the Third PNC Lawsuit and together with the First PNC Lawsuit and the Second PNC Lawsuit, the PNC Lawsuits) asserting infringement of U.S. Patents 10,769,598; 10,402,638; and 9,224,136. A jury trial was held in May 2022 on the consolidated First PNC Lawsuit and Second PNC Lawsuit. The jury found that PNC willfully infringed at least one patent claim and awarded USAA $218 million in damages. The Court denied PNC Banks equitable defenses and entered a Final Judgment in the consolidated First PNC Lawsuit and Second PNC Lawsuit on August 19, 2022. A jury trial was held in September 2022 on the Third PNC Lawsuit. The jury found that PNC infringed at least one patent claim and awarded USAA $4.3 million in damages. The Court entered a Final Judgment in the Third PNC Lawsuit on February 16, 2023. While neither the Wells Lawsuits nor the PNC Lawsuits name the Company as a defendant, given (among other factors) the Companys prior history of litigation with USAA and the continued use of the Companys products by its customers, on November 1, 2019, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking declaratory judgment that its products do not infringe the 779 Patent, the 571 Patent, the 517 Patent, and the 090 Patent (collectively, the Subject Patents). On January 15, 2020, USAA filed motions requesting the dismissal of the declaratory judgement of the Subject Patents and transfer of the case to the Eastern District of Texas, both of which the Company opposed. On April 21, 2020, the Court in the Northern District of California transferred the Companys declaratory judgement action to the Eastern District of Texas and did not rule on USAAs motion to dismiss. On April 28, 2021, the Court in the Eastern District of Texas granted USAAs motion to dismiss the Companys declaratory judgment action on jurisdictional grounds. The Courts ruling did not address the merits of the Companys claim of non-infringement. The Company appealed the ruling on the motion to dismiss and the decision to transfer the declaratory judgment action from California to Texas to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Federal Circuit heard oral argument on the Companys appeal on April 4, 2022 and on May 20 2022, issued an opinion vacating and remanding the district courts order granting USAAs motion to dismiss. On August 1, 2022, the parties submitted additional briefing to the district court in light of Federal Circuits opinion. The court held another hearing on USAAs motion to dismiss the Companys declaratory judgment action on jurisdictional grounds, and once again granted USAAs motion to dismiss on February 23, 2023. The Company timely filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The appeal is fully briefed, and the Company is awaiting oral argument. The Company continues to believe that its products do not infringe the Subject Patents and will vigorously defend the right of its end-users to use its technology. In April, May, and June 2020, the Company filed petitions for IPR with the PTAB of the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office challenging the validity of the Subject Patents. On November 6 and 17, 2020, the PTAB decided to exercise its discretion and deny institution of the four petitions due to the alleged relationship between the Company and Wells Fargo, who previously filed petitions for IPR on the Subject Patents. The PTAB did not address the merits of the Companys petitions or the prior art cited in those petitions. The Company continues to believe that the prior art cited in the petitions renders all the claims of the Subject Patents invalid. On each of December 6, 2020, December 17, 2020, and February 23, 2021, the Company filed requests for rehearing and Precedential Opinion Panel (POP) review of the four denied IPR petitions. The Patent Office denied the requests for rehearing and for POP review. In September 2020, the Company filed an additional two petitions for IPR with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office challenging the validity of the 681 Patent and the 605 Patenttwo of the patents at issue in the Second Wells Lawsuit. In March 2021, the PTAB decided not to institute the two petitions. On July 7, July 14, and July 21 2021, PNC Bank filed six additional petitions for IPR with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office challenging the validity of the 779 Patent, the 571 Patent, the 559 Patent, and the 432 Patent. On August 27, 2021, PNC filed two additional petitions for IPR challenging the validity of the 681 Patent and the 605 Patent. In October and November of 2021, PNC Bank filed four more petitions for IPR challenging the validity of the 638 Patent, the 136 Patent, and the 598 Patent. The Patent Office denied institution with respect to the petitions challenging the 432 Patent, the 605 Patent, the 681 Patent, and the 638 Patent, but instituted inter partes review on the petitions relating to the 779 Patent, the 571 Patent, the 559 Patent, and the 598 Patentfinding a reasonable likelihood that at least one challenged patent claim was invalid. The U.S. Patent & Trademark Office issued a final written decision in each of the IPRs challenging the 779 Patent, the 571 Patent, and the 559 Patent and found all challenged claims of each patent unpatentable. USAA filed requests for rehearing and requests for POP review. The requests for POP review and for rehearing were denied in March 2023. 9 On August 16, 2021, USAA filed suit against BBVA USA (BBVA) in the Eastern District of Texas alleging infringement of the same patents at issue in the PNC Lawsuits. While the Companys IPR petitions were mentioned in the complaint, the Company was not named as a defendant or mentioned in connection with any alleged infringement. BBVA then sent the Company an indemnification demand on September 7, 2021. For the same reasons discussed above in connection with PNC Bank and PNC Lawsuits, the Company does not believe it is obligated to indemnify BBVA. On June 6, 2022, the Court granted the parties request to administratively close the case and stay all deadlines in view of the pending appeal in the PNC Lawsuits. On July 29, 2022, USAA filed another patent infringement lawsuit against Truist Bank (Truist) in the Eastern District of Texas. The lawsuit alleges infringement of the 090 Patent, the 432 Patent, and the U.S. Patent No. 11,182,753 (the 753 Patent). The Company was not named as a defendant or mentioned in connection with any alleged infringement. On October 5, 2022, Truists integration partner, NCR Corporation, sent an indemnification demand to the Company requesting indemnification from all claims related to the lawsuit. For the same reasons discussed above in connection with the PNC Lawsuits, the Company does not believe it is obligated to indemnify NCR Corporation or end-users of NCR Corporation resulting from the patent infringement allegations by USAA. On October 7, 2022, Truist filed a motion to transfer venue to the Western District of North Carolina. The motion was denied on April 8, 2023. On December 30, 2022, Truist filed a motion for leave to file counterclaims against USAA alleging patent infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 7,336,813; 7,519,214; 8,136,721; and 9,760,797, which was granted on April 8, 2023. On March 13, 2023, USAA moved for leave to file a First Amended Complaint, adding an additional allegation of patent infringement of U.S. Patent No. 11,544,944 (the 944 Patent). On April 4, 2023, Truist sent another indemnification demand to the Company requesting indemnification related to the lawsuit.On May 3, 2023, USAA moved for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint, adding an additional allegation of patent infringement of U.S. Patent No. 11,625,770 (the 770 Patent). On May 30, 2023, Truist sent another indemnification demand to the Company requesting indemnification related to the Second Amended Complaint. On October 6, 2023, the parties filed a Notice of Settlement and Joint Motion and Stipulation of Dismissal. All claims and causes of actions between the parties were dismissed with prejudice on October 10, 2023 in view of the settlement. In October and November of 2022, Truist filed a petition for IPR with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office challenging the validity of the 090 Patent, the 432 Patent, and the 753 Patent. The Patent Office instituted the petitions directed to the 090 and 753 Patents, but denied institution of the petition directed to the 432 Patent. In view of the settlement between USAA and Truist, the IPRs were withdrawn. Furthermore, we may initiate other claims or litigation against parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to establish the validity of our intellectual property rights. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Mobile Deposit. We rely on trademark, trade secret, copyright, and patent law, as well as a combination of non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology and rights. However, these legal protections afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. The Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may expire or may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing technologies related to ours. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual provisions with the third parties that license technology to us and that obligate these third parties to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. There is no guarantee that these third parties would be successful in attempting to protect our rights in any such licensed technology. There is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents or other intellectual property or any intellectual property or technology licensed to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, partners, and customers. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. 10 In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Common law trademarks provide less protection than registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face competition from several companies that may have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share. We compete against numerous companies in the mobile imaging software market. Competition in this market may increase as a result of a number of factors, such as the entrance of new or larger competitors or alternative technologies. These competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger client bases, and greater brand or name recognition. These competitors could, among other things: announce new products or technologies that have the potential to replace our existing product offerings; force us to charge lower prices; or adversely affect our relationships with current clients. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors and if we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenue, operating margins, and market share could decline. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services in an effort to recapture or gain market share or to sell other products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. For these and other reasons, in the future we may choose to make changes to our pricing practices. Such changes could materially and adversely affect our margins, and our revenues may be negatively affected if our competitors are able to recapture or gain market share. We must continue to engage in extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. Our ability to compete effectively with our mobile imaging software products depends upon our ability to meet changing market conditions and develop enhancements to our products on a timely basis in order to maintain our competitive advantage. The markets for products incorporating mobile imaging software technology and products are characterized by rapid advancements in technology and changes in user preferences. Our continued growth will ultimately depend upon our ability to develop additional technologies and attract strategic alliances for related or separate products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements and additional technologies, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, will be of acceptable quality, or will achieve market acceptance. Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation, sales and profitability. Our business and the level of customer acceptance of our products depend upon the continuous, effective, and reliable operation of our products. Our products are extremely complex and are continually being modified and improved, and as such may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. To the extent that defects or errors cause our products to malfunction and our customers use of our products is interrupted, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could decline or be delayed while such defects are remedied. We may also be subject to liability for the defects and malfunctions of third-party technology partners and others with whom our products and services are integrated. In addition, our products are typically intended for use in applications that are critical to a customers business. As a result, we believe that our customers and potential customers have a greater sensitivity to product defects than the market for software products in general. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, adverse litigation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays may impair our operating results. The long sales cycle and the implementation cycles for our software and services may cause operating results to vary significantly from period to period. The sales cycle for our products can be six months or more and varies substantially from customer to customer. Because we sell complex and deeply integrated solutions, it can take many months of customer education to secure sales and implement our product. Since our potential customers may evaluate our products before, if ever, executing definitive agreements, we may incur substantial expenses and spend significant management and legal effort in connection with a potential customer. Our historical order flow patterns, which we expect to continue, have caused forecasting difficulties for us. If we do not meet our forecasts or analysts forecasts for us, the price of our common stock may decline. 11 Historically, a significant portion of our sales have resulted from shipments during the last few weeks of the quarter from orders received in the final month of the applicable quarter. We do, however, base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, we expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. Any concentration of sales at the end of the quarter may limit our ability to plan or adjust operating expenses. Therefore, if anticipated shipments in any quarter do not occur or are delayed, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of sales, and our operating results for that quarter would be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. If our operating results for a quarter are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Entry into new lines of business, and our offering of new products and services, resulting from our acquisitions may result in exposure to new risks. New lines of business, products or services could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. New products and services, or entrance into new markets, may require substantial time, resources and capital, and profitability targets may not be achieved. Entry into new markets entails inherent risks associated with our inexperience, which may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. There are material inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products, and services, especially when new markets are not fully developed or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product are not mature. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, regulatory orders, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful implementation of new products or services. Failure to manage these risks, or failure of any product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology solutions may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including a recession, inflation, increased government intervention, or measures taken in response to a global pandemic like COVID-19, or other changes, may adversely affect our general business strategy. In particular an economic downturn affecting small and medium sized businesses could significantly affect our business as many of our existing and target customers are in the small and medium sized business sector and these businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our products and services, causing our revenue to decline. We may need to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations and an inability to raise the necessary capital or the inability to do so on acceptable terms could threaten the success of our business. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, such resources may not be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. If we determine that it is necessary to raise additional funds, we may choose to do so through public or private equity or debt financings, a bank line of credit, strategic collaborations, licensing, or other arrangements. We cannot be sure that any additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. Furthermore, any additional equity or equity-related financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our shares of common stock, and debt or equity financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. If we obtain funding through a strategic collaboration or licensing arrangement, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we may be required to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures or significantly curtail our operations. We expect to incur additional expenses related to the integration of ID R&D, Inc. and HooYu Ltd. We expect to incur additional expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems of ID R&D, a New York corporation and HooYu Ltd. There are a number of systems and functions that are being integrated into our larger organization, including, but not limited to, management information, accounting and finance, billing, payroll and benefits, and regulatory compliance. In addition, the acquisitions of non-public entities such as ID R&D and HooYu, are particularly challenging because their prior practices may not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) and/or accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred to integrate this business, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with the respective businesses of ID R&D, and HooYu and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. 12 Our management will be required to continue to devote significant attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with that of ID R&D and HooYu. In particular, the acquisitions of ID R&D and HooYu involve the combination of companies that previously operated independently in different countries. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following: complexities associated with managing our business and the respective businesses of ID R&D and HooYu following the completion of the acquisition, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks, and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; integrating the workforces of the companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisitions, including costs to integrate the companies that may exceed anticipated costs. Any of the potential difficulties listed above could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our actual financial and operating results following the acquisitions of ID R&D and HooYu could differ materially from any expectations or guidance provided by us concerning our future financial and operating results. The combined company resulting from the acquisitions of ID R&D and HooYu may not perform as we or the market expects. Expectations regarding each of ID R&Ds and HooYus impact on our financial and operating results are subject to numerous assumptions, including assumptions derived from our diligence efforts concerning the status of and prospects for the businesses of ID R&D and HooYu, respectively, and assumptions relating to the near-term prospects for our industry generally and the market for the products of ID R&D and HooYu in particular. Additional assumptions that we have made relate to numerous matters, including, without limitation, the following: projections of future revenues; anticipated financial performance of products and products currently in development; our expected capital structure after the acquisitions, including after the distribution of any earnout shares that may (under certain circumstances) become payable to the former shareholders of ID R&D; our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with the respective customers of ID R&D and HooYu; and other financial and strategic risks of the acquisitions. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the accuracy of our assumptions, including our assumptions with respect to future revenues or revenue growth rates, if any, of ID R&D or HooYu. Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from currently anticipated results include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to realize incremental revenues from the acquisitions in the amounts that we currently anticipate; risks relating to the willingness of customers and other partners of ID R&D or HooYu to continue to conduct business with the combined company; and numerous risks and uncertainties that affect our industry generally and the markets for our products and those of each of ID R&D and HooYu. Any failure to realize the financial benefits we currently anticipate from the acquisitions would have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and financial condition and could materially and adversely affect the trading price or trading volume of our common stock. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated greatly in the past and will likely continue to do so, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our common stock price. Our annual and quarterly operating results have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate significantly depending on factors including the timing of customer projects and purchase orders, new product announcements and releases by us and other companies, gain or loss of significant customers, price discounting of our products, the timing of expenditures, customer product delivery requirements, the availability and cost of components or labor, and economic conditions, both generally and in the information technology market. Revenues related to our licenses for mobile imaging software products are required to be recognized upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the terms of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. Any unfavorable change in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for a particular quarter or year, which may cause downward pressure on our common stock price. Historically, sales of licenses to our channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue. This is attributable to the timing of the purchase or renewal of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel 13 partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. We expect quarterly and annual fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. These fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations, have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, or both. We face risks related to the storage of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information. Our products may not provide absolute security. We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. Our products are designed to maintain the confidentiality and security of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information that is stored on our systems, which may include sensitive financial data and personally identifiable information about consumers. However, any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to this data could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, time-consuming and expensive litigation, and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our products, systems and processes, however our maintenance and regular upgrades of our products, systems and processes, which are designed to protect the security of our products and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our clients, may not provide absolute security. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly sophisticated, and generally are difficult to recognize and react to. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures. As cyber-attacks become more sophisticated, the need to develop our infrastructure to secure our business and customer data can lead to increased cybersecurity protection costs. Such costs may include making organizational changes, deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees, and engaging third-party experts and consultants. These efforts come at the potential cost of revenues and human resources that could be utilized to continue to enhance our product offerings. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our products could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our clients, or damage to our systems or those of our clients and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our clients, loss of confidence in our security measures, client dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We may not have adequate insurance coverages for a cybersecurity breach or may realize increased insurance premiums as a result of a security breach. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, client perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of clients. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. Due to our operations in non-U.S. markets, we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We generate revenue in markets outside of the U.S. The risks inherent in global operations include: lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign laws and legal standards, including employment laws and privacy laws, which may vary widely across the countries in which we sell our products; increased expense to comply with U.S. laws that apply to foreign corporations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA); compliance with, and potentially adverse tax consequences of foreign tax regimes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency exchange controls, price controls, and limitations on repatriation of earnings; local economic conditions; increased expense related to localization of products and development of foreign language marketing and sales materials; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictive employment regulations; difficulties and increased expense in implementing corporate policies and controls; international intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law; 14 compliance with differing and changing local laws and regulations in multiple international locations, including regional data privacy laws, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations; and limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. If we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding our international business, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Further, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. Due to the additional uncertainties and risks of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, international acquisitions tend to entail risks and require additional oversight and management attention that are typically not attendant to acquisitions made within the U.S. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our international operations may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax, and other laws and regulations. The FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities outside of the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our acquisitions of ID Checker, ICAR, A2iA, ID R&D, and HooYu may significantly increase our exposure to potential liability under Anti-Corruption Laws. ID Checker, ICAR, A2iA, ID R&D, and HooYu were not historically subject to the FCPA, Sarbanes-Oxley, or other laws, to which we are subject, and we may become subject to liability if in the past, ID Checkers, ICARs, A2iAs, ID R&Ds, and HooYus operations did not comply with such laws. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside of the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The transfer of personal data from the European Union (EU) to the U.S. has become a significant area of potential operational and compliance risk. In 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) and the Swiss Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner invalidated the U.S.-EU and U.S.-Swiss Privacy Shield frameworks, respectively. Privacy Shield was a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states or Switzerland to the U.S. In its decision, the CJEU also indicated that individual EU member states could determine whether Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) (another adequate option for data transfers) are sufficient to securely transfer data out of the EU. A number of local country data protection authorities in the EU subsequently determined that SCCs were invalid for data transfers to the U.S. The EU Data Protection Board subsequently published updated SCCs to address some of the issues presented in the CJEU decision. Those new SCCs were required to be in place by December 27, 2022, and required significant effort for companies to review and revise their EU-U.S. data transfer agreements. Because of the legal challenges presented by these court and data protection authority decisions, there is uncertainty regarding the legal basis for data transfers to the U.S., which could lead to interruption of such transfers. The complex nature and shifting laws related to EU/UK/Switzerland to U.S. data transfers could cause operational interruptions, liabilities and reputational harm. These and other requirements could increase the cost of compliance for us and our customers, restrict our and our customers ability to store and process data, negatively impact our ability to offer our solutions in certain locations and limit our customers ability to deploy our solutions globally. These consequences may be more significant in countries with legislation that requires data to remain localized in country, as this could require us or our customers to establish data storage in other jurisdictions or apply local operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, thereby harming our business. For example, in 2016, the EU adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which establishes new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and which became effective in May 2018. Non-compliance with the GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Due to our international operations, we are subject to certain foreign tax regulations. Such regulations may not be clear, not consistently applied, and subject to sudden change, particularly with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by the uncertain and changing nature of such tax regulations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is generally conducted in U.S. dollars. However, we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. The costs of operating in The Netherlands, Spain, France, and other European markets are subject to the effects of exchange fluctuations of the Euro and British pound sterling 15 against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, net income (loss), and the value of balance sheet items denoted in foreign currencies, and can adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), Sarbanes-Oxley, and various other new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters and imposes requirements on publicly-held companies, including us, to, among other things, provide stockholders with a periodic advisory vote on executive compensation and also adds compensation committee reforms and enhanced pay-for-performance disclosures. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective upon enactment, and others have been implemented upon the SECs adoption of related rules and regulations, the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet fully implemented and the scope and timing of the adoption of additional rules and regulations thereunder is uncertain and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley specifically requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure of