Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, but appear throughout this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, asset quality or other future financial or business performance, strategies, expectations or business prospects, or the impact of legal, regulatory or supervisory matters on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Specifically, forward- looking statements may include statements relating to our future business prospects, revenue, income and financial condition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements reflect our judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors discussed under Item 1ARisk Factors, important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. These factors include, but are not limited to: adverse economic conditions; general decreases in demand for our products and services; changes in timing of introducing new products into the market; intense competition (including entry of new competitors), including among competitors with substantially greater resources than us; increased or adverse federal, state and local government regulation; inadequate capital; unexpected costs; revenues and net income lower than forecasted; litigation; the possible fluctuation and volatility of operating results and financial conditions; inability to carry out our marketing and sales plans; and the loss of key employees and executives. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances that arise after the date of this Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The above list is not intended to be exhaustive and there may be other factors that could preclude us from realizing the predictions made in the forward-looking statements. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such factors or assess the impact, if any, of such factors on our financial position or results of operations. i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Mitek Systems, Inc. develops, markets and sells proprietary mobile capture and identity verification software solutions for enterprise customers. Our mobile capture and identify verification technologies are embedded into the mobile applications of leading brands across the globe to improve usability while minimizing risk. They serve the needs of any regulated business that has Know Your Customer (KYC) obligations. By licensing our proprietary technology, enterprise customers improve customer acquisition and other key objectives including securing high risk transactions, verification for age sensitive and age-restricted commerce, and meeting KYC and other compliance regulations. Our technology uses advanced algorithms to correct image distortion, extract relevant data, route images to their desired location and process transactions. As of September 30, 2015, we have been granted 22 patents and have an additional 21 patent applications pending. In June of 2015 (as more fully described below) Mitek acquired IDchecker, a global provider of cloud based identity document verification. The acquisition expands Miteks mobile ID verification capabilities through IDcheckers ability to read several different types of passports, international drivers licenses and identity cards from almost every nation. The acquisition also adds an international customer base in the payments, financial services and information services verticals. The smartphone market is undergoing significant growth. More than 90% of millennials own a smartphone and its most utilized feature is the camera, according to industry analyst ComScore. A 2015 survey conducted by Zogby Analytics (Millennials The Next Mobile Disruptors) revealed three key findings: millennials are embracing adoption of a mobile self-service channel; they expect to use their mobile devices camera to deliver an easy mobile commerce experience; and the mobile camera is key for businesses looking to engage with this demographic. Mitek is leveraging the mobile camera through our Mitek Mobile Identity Suite to create a superior user experience across all versions of the Apple iPhone and Android devices. The core of our user experience is Mitek MiSnap, is a touch-free automated capture technology, which is incorporated universally across our product line. It provides a simple and superior user experience, making transactions on mobile devices fast and easy for the consumer while helping organizations drive revenue from the increasingly popular mobile channel. Our Mobile Verify products combine the Mitek MiSnap auto capture experience with a variety of advanced computer vision techniques to provide verification of ID documents. Mobile Verify provides a check of authenticity of U.S state-issued drivers licenses and includes full global coverage. These products enable banks and other businesses to improve KYC processes. This is especially valuable to highly regulated industries with a large and growing percentage of transactions conducted remotely via mobile devices. These products also enable trust to be achieved on peer-to-peer (P2P) and merchant processing networks where identity is an inherent part of the transaction. Mobile Verify customers include international money transfer, payments and global information services providers. Mobile Fill, our mobile identity capture solution, enables the camera to serve as a keyboard. Using Mobile Fill, consumers can quickly pre-fill any form with personal data by simply snapping a picture of their driver license, credit card, or other document. Organizations use Mobile Fill to verify identity for service. This can include streamlining the process of opening a customer checking, savings or credit card account, paying a bill, activating a switch and save offer, and more. Miteks prime customers for Mobile Fill include national and regional banks, credits unions, telecom operators and insurance providers. The second generation of our Mobile Fill product, Mobile Fill for Mobile Web, enables potential new customers to use their camera as a keyboard right from the organizations mobile website, eliminating the need to download an application. Miteks Mobile Identity Suite has been developed pursuant to the success of Mobile Deposit , a category leading product that allows individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. As of September 30, 2015, 4,495 financial institutions have signed agreements to deploy Mobile Deposit. These include all of the top ten U.S. retail banks, and nearly all of the top 50 U.S. retail banks (as ranked by SNL Financial). 1 We market and sell our Mitek Mobile Identity Suite line of mobile capture and identity verification software products directly to enterprise custo mers or through channel partners. Our mobile capture software solutions are often embedded in other mobile banking or enterprise applications developed by banks, insurance companies or their partners, and then marketed under their own proprietary brands. On June 17, 2015, the Company completed the acquisition (the Acquisition) of IDchecker NL B.V., a company incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands (IDC NL), and ID Checker, Inc., a California corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of IDC NL (IDC Inc and together with IDC NL, IDchecker), pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement (the Share Purchase Agreement), dated May 26, 2015, by and among the Company, IDC NL, ID Checker Holding B.V. (Parent), Stichting Administratiekantoor OPID (together with Parent, the Sellers), and the other individuals specified therein. Upon completion of the Acquisition, IDC NL and IDC Inc became wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company. IDcheckers operating results are included in our consolidated financial statements and results of operations beginning June 17, 2015. Mitek Systems, Inc. is headquartered in San Diego, California and was incorporated in the state of Delaware on May 29, 1986. Product and Technology Overview Mitek Systems, Inc. is a mobile technology provider that makes doing business on a mobile device easier and safer for consumers and organizations. Our Mitek Mobile Identity Suite of solutions is provided as a software platform. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015, we had one operating segment: the development, sale and service of our proprietary software solutions related to mobile capture. Our technology processes images of documents in many ways. These include quality analysis, image repair, document identification and the extraction of hand-printed and machine-printed text. Our solutions can be deployed on any back office, industrial or desktop scanner, or on camera-equipped smartphones or tablets, to optimize and extract data from any scanned or photographed identity document, check, bill or other financial document. Our capabilities include mobile document capture, image recognition, repair and optimization, dynamic data extraction and several document-specific capabilities, such as courtesy amount recognition, legal amount recognition, passport machine readable zones, and reading of barcodes. In addition, we provide facial recognition capabilities. Miteks mobile capture solutions are able to read and extract data from images of financial and identification documents, essentially turning camera-equipped smartphones and tablets into digital scanning devices. Our proprietary, patented technology combines our patented core character recognition software with advanced mobile capture processing capabilities that transform a four-color photograph of a document into a digital image equivalent in size and resolution to a scanned document. This process overcomes several critical issues inherent in mobile photography. Documents captured by camera-equipped smartphones and tablets are exposed to variable lighting conditions and various angles and focal distances. Raw photos of documents taken by a camera-equipped smartphone or tablet may be of an unknown size and resolution. They are often geometrically distorted, skewed or warped. As a result, the raw mobile document image is virtually unusable without Miteks solution. Our technology uses advanced algorithms designed to identify and correct geometric and optical distortions, automatically correcting each mobile document image. Mobile Capture Solutions Our products allow users to verify their identity, remotely deposit checks, pay bills, transfer credit card balances, open accounts and get insurance quotes by taking pictures of documents with their camera-equipped smartphones and tablets instead of using the device keyboard. The majority of our revenue in the fiscal years ended September 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was generated by our Mobile Deposit product, which we sell through channel partners in the financial services industry who resell our solutions primarily to financial institutions. Our other mobile capture solutions, which include Mobile Fill and Mobile Verify, are primarily sold directly to enterprise customers in the financial services, m-commerce, telecom and healthcare markets. 2 Identity Mobile Verify Mobile Verify provides insights and assurances to companies around the world. It can take many forms based upon document type, geography, and customer use case. For example, it enables banks and other businesses to improve Know Your Customer (KYC) processes that use mobile imaging for ID document authentication. Mobile Verify instantly finds and decodes an encrypted security feature hidden on a U.S. driver's license that is imperceptible to the human eye. When Mobile Verify detects this security feature, the license authentication process is greatly enhanced. With significantly reduced false positives, the authenticity of the ID can be verified on a mobile device, benefitting both businesses and customers by eliminating the need for physical interaction when making transactions. If customers are asked to leave the mobile channel to verify their identity at a physical location, abandonment rates can be high. Mobile Verify combines Miteks MiSnap auto capture experience with our computer vision to perform algorithmic-based tests that verify the authenticity of several types of passports, international driver's licenses and identity cards from nearly every nation. Photo Verify Strong also integrates our Photo Fill technology to incorporate the benefits of data prefill into the ID document verification experience. By ensuring that a driver license is authentic and issued by the state, Mobile Verify helps prevent the use of forged, tampered or fake licenses. It enables banks, insurance companies and other organizations to more safely and securely acquire new customers and complete high value transactions in the mobile channel. This capability is especially important for organizations that must achieve regulatory compliance, including but not limited to with KYC and Anti Money Laundering (AML) regulations. Mobile Verify has many use cases. These include mitigating risk for transactions such as mobile account opening, loan origination, high value money transfers, card-not-present payments, merchant onboarding, verification for age restricted mobile commerce and creating a trusted identity in the shared economy. Mobile Verify Advanced can also help banks safely raise Mobile Deposit limits by instantly verifying the identity of someone making a deposit on a mobile device. Mobile Verify is available on premise or in the cloud. Mobile Fill Mobile Fill, which includes our touch free auto capture experience (MiSnap), is Miteks mobile identity capture solution. Mobile Fill enables the mobile customer to use their camera as a keyboard for fast and accurate data pre-fill of any form requiring personal data. Simply by snapping a picture of their driver license, mobile customers can conveniently open a new account. Our technology extracts data from the drivers license to automatically populate the fields of the application form, thereby eliminating the inconvenience and errors associated with manual data entry on a mobile device. Mobile Fill can be used to open a new bank account, get an insurance quote, apply for a credit card, originate a loan, or enroll in other products and services. This process can be extended to capture the image of a check or credit/debit card to allow for immediate funding or payments. It can also capture data from other documents to facilitate and improve various workflows. Mobile Deposit Mobile Deposit (for retail banking) The foundation of the Mitek Mobile Identity Suite is Mobile Deposit , a category leading product that allows individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. As of September 30, 2015, 4,495 financial institutions have signed agreements to deploy Mobile Deposit. These include all of the top ten U.S. retail banks, and nearly all of the top 50 U.S. retail banks (as ranked by SNL Financial). A ccording to industry analyst Celent, more than 60 million consumers are using our Mobile Deposit solution. Miteks Mobile Deposit product was the first to utilize our patented mobile capture analytics and character recognition software to allow financial institutions to accept check deposits via images of checks taken with camera-equipped smartphones and tablets. Mobile Deposit allows users to make deposits by photographing the front and back of a check and submitting the image electronically to their bank using their smartphone or tablet. We began selling Mobile Deposit in the second fiscal quarter of 2008, and received our first patent issued for this product in August 2010. Of Miteks 22 patents, 9 are dedicated to methods and systems used to deposit a check via a mobile device camera. 3 Commercial Mobile Deposit Capture (for business banking) Our Commercial Mobile Deposit Capture utilizes the same core technology as Mobile Deposit, but is specific to small and medium size businesses. It adds capabilities including mobile multi-check capture and invoice capture to help business reduce or eliminate their need for check scanners and trips to the ATM or bank branch. Of the 19 billion checks deposited in the U.S. per the 2013 Federal Reserve Payments Study , almost three out of four were deposited by businesses. Just like the retail side of banks, the commercial and treasury divisions recognize substantially lower transaction cost associated with processing checks through the mobile channel , and are thus highly motivated to drive more mobile deposit transactions as an alternative to branch or ATM transactions. In addition, many businesses are seeking to lower operating costs through mobile tools that enable them to quickly process payments without a trip to the bank, extra hardware or interchange fees associated with credit cards. Mitek Developers Program The Mitek Developer program extends use of our mobile capture software development kit (SDK) and Mobile Imaging Platform to developers interested in creating new mobile applications that use camera-equipped smartphones and tablets to capture data from documents in markets outside financial services. Developers in the program have incorporated Miteks technology into apps for real estate, benefits management, elections technology and innovative uses in additional fields. Maintenance and Support We provide ongoing software support services to assist our customers with the use and maintenance of our software. We have a customer service department that handles installation and maintenance requirements. The majority of the inquiries we receive are handled by telephone and electronic mail. We maintain our customers software largely through releases that provide them with technology enhancements and updated features. Substantially all of our customers purchase post-contract support from us. These services are a significant source of recurring revenue and are typically contracted on an annual basis. Customers with maintenance agreements receive software updates from us on an if-and-when-available basis only. Technical support is provided primarily by telephone and also by on-site technical visits, if necessary. Maintenance and support service fees are deferred and recognized over the contract period on a straight-line basis. Costs incurred by us to provide maintenance and support services are charged to cost of revenue as incurred. Intellectual Property Our success depends in large part upon our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights primarily through patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third party nondisclosure agreements and other measures. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or we infringe on the intellectual property rights of a third party, our operating results could be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2015, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the PTO) has issued us 22 patents and we have filed for 21 additional domestic and international patents. We have 22 registered trademarks and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, as appropriate. We claim common law protection for, and may seek to register, other trademarks. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. Sales and Marketing We market our products and services through channel partners as well as through our internal, direct sales organization. We have an internal marketing group that develops corporate and product marketing strategies and executes marketing plans with the support of external resources as needed. We employ a technically oriented sales force that works with management to identify the needs of existing and prospective customers. Our indirect sales strategy concentrates on original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), systems integrators, distributors, and software solution companies that build, integrate and sell mobile solutions. Our direct sales strategy concentrates on large financial services organizations and other large corporations that want to deliver innovative mobile services to their customers. The sales process is supported by a broad range of marketing programs, including trade shows, public relations and digital advertising. 4 For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2015, we derived revenue of $ 6,270,927 , or 25 % of our total revenue, from one customer, compared to revenue of $ 5,688,973 , or 30 % of our total revenue, from one customer in the fiscal year ended Sep tember 30, 2014. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, we derived revenue of $ 3,607,417 from one customer, or 24% , of our total revenue. International revenues accounted for 5%, 4% and 3% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Revenues from our products are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. Market Opportunities, Challenges and Risks The increase in the acceptance of mobile banking by financial institutions and their customers has helped drive our recent growth in revenue. In the past year, we experienced a significant increase in the number of financial institutions that have integrated and launched our mobile applications, particularly our Mobile Deposit product, as part of their offering of mobile banking choices for their customers. We believe that financial institutions see our patented solutions as a way to provide an enhanced customer experience and reduce the cost of sales and service. To sustain our growth in 2016 and beyond, we believe we must continue to offer imaging technology for mobile applications that address a growing market for mobile banking and mobile imaging solutions sold into other vertical markets. Factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our mobile applications, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile applications, or negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate, could result in lower revenues or gross margins. Further, because substantially all of our revenues are from a single type of technology, our product concentration may make us especially vulnerable to market demand and competition from other technologies, which could reduce our revenues. The implementation cycles for our software and services by our channel partners and customers can be lengthy, often a minimum of three to six months and sometimes longer for larger customers, and require significant investments. For example, as of September 30, 2015, we executed agreements indirectly through channel partners or directly with customers covering 4,495 Mobile Deposit customers. If implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers is delayed or otherwise not completed, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We derive revenue predominately from the sale of licenses to use the products covered by our patented technologies, such as our Mobile Deposit product, and to a lesser extent by providing maintenance and professional services for the products we offer. The revenue we derive from the sale of such licenses is primarily derived from the sale to our channel partners of licenses to sell the applications we offer. Revenues related to most of our licenses for mobile products are required to be recognized up front upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the term of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. During each of the last few years, sales of licenses to one or more channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue each year. This is attributable to the timing of renewals or purchases of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. We have a growing number of competitors in the mobile imaging industry, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. However, we believe our patented imaging and analytics technology, our growing portfolio of products for the financial services industry and our market leadership gives us a distinct competitive advantage. To remain competitive, we must continue to offer products that are attractive to the consumer as well as being secure, accurate and convenient. To help us remain competitive, we intend to further strengthen our portfolio of products through research and development as well as partnering with other technology providers. 5 Competition The market for mobile image processing software products is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We face direct and indirect competition from a broad range of competitors who offer a variety of products and solutions to our current and potential customers. Our principal competition comes from: (i) customer-developed solutions; (ii) companies offering automated document processing systems; (iii) companies offering competing technologies capable of recognizing hand-printed and cursive characters; and (iv) companies offering check imaging systems to banks. It is also possible that we will face competition from new industry participants or alternative technologies. Moreover, as the market for automated document processing, image recognition, check imaging and fraud detection software develops, a number of companies with significantly greater resources than we have could attempt to enter or increase their presence in our industry, either independently or by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors, or otherwise increase their focus on the industry. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our current and potential customers. Our products are compliant with Service-Oriented Architecture standards and compete, to various degrees, with products produced by a number of substantial competitors. Competition among product providers in this market generally focuses on price, accuracy, reliability and technical support. We believe our primary competitive advantages in this market are: (i) recognition accuracy with regard to hand-printed characters; (ii) flexibility resulting from the ability of our products to operate in several Microsoft Web Services environments; (iii) scalability; and (iv) an architectural software design that allows our products to be more readily modified, improved with added functionality and configured for new products, thereby allowing our software to be easily upgraded. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Research and Development We develop software products internally and also purchase or license rights to third-party intellectual property. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products and develop new products that meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Internal research and development allows us to maintain closer technical control over our products and gives us the ability to determine which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented to ensure the proper functioning of our software products. We intend to expand our existing product offerings and introduce new mobile image processing software solutions that meet the needs of our customers. We perform all quality assurance and develop documentation internally and strive to stay abreast of hardware advances that may affect our software design. We intend to continue to support the major industry standard operating environments. Our team of specialists in recognition algorithms, software engineering, user interface design, product documentation and quality improvement is responsible for maintaining and enhancing the performance, quality and utility of all of our products. In addition to research and development, our engineering staff provides customer technical support on an as-needed basis. Our research and development organization includes software engineers and scientists, many of whom have advanced degrees, as well as additional personnel in quality assurance and related disciplines. All of our software engineers are involved in applications development, including our mobile imaging platforms and products with solutions for mobile image capture; mobile check deposits; mobile bill payments; form identification; image quality analysis; detection for signatures; and quality assurance. Our research and development expenses for the years ended September 30, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $5,576,806, $6,019,573 and $6,793,412 respectively. We expect research and development expenses during fiscal year 2016 to increase as compared with those incurred in fiscal year 2015 as we continue our new product research and development efforts. 6 Employees and Labor Relations As of September 30, 2015, we had 85 employees, 77 of which are full time. Our total employee base consists of 27 sales and marketing and professional services employees, 46 research and development and support employees, and 12 employees in executive, finance, network administration and other capacities. In addition, we engaged various consultants in the areas of research and development, product development, finance and marketing during fiscal year 2015. We have never had a work stoppage and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization. Substantially all of our employees, other than certain of our executive officers and employees with customary employment arrangements within Europe, are at will employees, which means that each employee can terminate his or her relationship with us and we can terminate our relationship with him or her at any time. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information Our principal offices are located at 8911 Balboa Ave., San Diego, CA 92123 and our telephone number is (858) 309-1700. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are required to file reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including reports on the following forms: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and other information concerning us may be accessed, free of charge, through the SECs website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.miteksystems.com . These reports are placed on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor is it in any way a part of, this Form 10-K. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, projected results and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment or interest. Risks Associated With Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. Our operations resulted in a net loss of $5,291,869 and $7,275,706 for the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Although we generated net income for the year ended September 30, 2015, we may experience future net losses which may limit our ability to fund our operations and we may not generate income from operations in the future. We have a history of losses and may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. As of September 30, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $33,500,827. Our future profitability depends upon many factors, including several that are beyond our control. These factors include, without limitation: changes in the demand for our products and services; loss of key customers or contracts; the introduction of competitive software; the failure to gain market acceptance of our new and existing products; the failure to successfully and cost effectively develop, introduce and market new products, services and product enhancements in a timely manner; and the timing of recognition of revenue. In addition, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses related to being a public company. As a result of these expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve and maintain future profitability. 7 We may n eed to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations and an inability to raise the necessary capital or to do so on acceptable terms could threaten the success of our business. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, such resources may not be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. If we determine that it is necessary to raise additional funds, we may choose to do so through strategic collaborations, licensing arrangements, public or private equity or debt financing, a bank line of credit, or other arrangements. We cannot be sure that any additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, any additional equity or equity-related financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our shares of common stock, and debt or equity financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. If we obtain funding through a strategic collaboration or licensing arrangement, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we may be required to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures or significantly curtail our operations. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. Federal and state tax laws impose restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards in the event of an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Section 382). Generally, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the value of the stock that is owned by one or more direct or indirect five percent shareholders increases by more than 50% over their lowest ownership percentage at any time during the applicable testing period (typically, three years). Under Section 382, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. We have not completed a study to assess whether an ownership change has occurred or whether there have been multiple ownership changes since we became a loss corporation as defined in Section 382. Future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an ownership change. In addition, future equity offerings or acquisitions that have equity as a component of the purchase price could result in an ownership change. If an ownership change has occurred or does occur in the future, utilization of the NOL carryforwards or other tax attributes may be limited, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from a single type of technology. If this technology and the related products do not achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We currently derive substantially all of our product revenues from licenses and sales of software products to customers incorporating our intelligent mobile imaging technology and software products. If we are unable to achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance of our core technology or products incorporating such technology, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. Additionally, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our products and services, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile image processing, negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If economic or other factors negatively affect the small and medium-sized business sector, our customers may become unwilling or unable to purchase our products and services, which could cause our revenue to decline. Many of our existing and target customers are in the small and medium-sized business sector. These businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our products and services. If small and medium-sized businesses experience economic hardship, it could negatively affect the overall demand for our products and services, and could cause our revenue to decline. 8 We face competition from several companies that may have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. We compete against numerous companies in the mobile imaging software market. Competition in this market may increase as a result of a number of factors, such as the entrance of new or larger competitors or alternative technologies. These competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger client bases and greater brand or name recognition. These competitors could, among other things: announce new products or technologies that have the potential to replace our existing product offerings; force us to charge lower prices; or adversely affect our relationships with current clients. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors and if we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenue, operating margins and market share could decline. We must continue to engage in extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. Our ability to compete effectively with our mobile imaging software products depends upon our ability to meet changing market conditions and develop enhancements to our products on a timely basis in order to maintain our competitive advantage. The markets for products incorporating mobile imaging software technology and products are characterized by rapid advancements in technology and changes in user preferences. Our continued growth will ultimately depend upon our ability to develop additional technologies and attract strategic alliances for related or separate products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements and additional technologies, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, will be of acceptable quality, or will achieve market acceptance. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated greatly in the past and will likely continue to do so, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our common stock price. Our annual and quarterly operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly depending on factors including the timing of customer projects and purchase orders, new product announcements and releases by us and other companies, gain or loss of significant customers, price discounting of our products, the timing of expenditures, customer product delivery requirements, the availability and cost of components or labor, and economic conditions, both generally and in the information technology market. Revenues related to our licenses for mobile imaging software products are required to be recognized upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the terms of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. In fiscal years 2015, 2014 and 2013, sales of licenses to channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue. This is attributable to the timing of the purchase or renewal of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. Any unfavorable change in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for a particular quarter or year, which may cause downward pressure on our common stock price. We expect quarterly and annual fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. 9 Our historical order flow patterns, which we expect to continue, have caused forecasting difficulties for us. If we do not meet our forecasts or analysts forecasts for us, the price of our common stock may decline. Historically, a significant portion of our sales have resulted from shipments during the last few weeks of the quarter from orders received in the final month of the applicable quarter. We do, however, base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, we expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. Any concentration of sales at the end of the quarter may limit our ability to plan or adjust operating expenses. Therefore, if anticipated shipments in any quarter do not occur or are delayed, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of sales, and our operating results for that quarter would be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. If our operating results for a quarter are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation, sales and profitability. Our business and the level of customer acceptance of our products depend upon the continuous, effective and reliable operation of our products. Our products are extremely complex and are continually being modified and improved, and as such may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. To the extent that defects or errors cause our products to malfunction and our customers use of our products is interrupted, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could decline or be delayed while such defects are remedied. We may also be subject to liability for the defects and malfunctions of third party technology partners and others with whom our products and services are integrated. In addition, our products are typically intended for use in applications that are critical to a customers business. As a result, we believe that our customers and potential customers have a greater sensitivity to product defects than the market for software products in general. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, adverse litigation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results and financial condition. Entry into new lines of business, and our offering of new products and services, resulting from our recent acquisition of IDchecker may result in exposure to new risks. IDchecker operates primarily in the areas of cloud based identity document verification and facial recognition solutions. We have not previously conducted business in facial recognition solutions. New lines of business, products or services could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. New products and services, or entrance into new markets, may require substantial time, resources and capital, and profitability targets may not be achieved. Entry into new markets entails inherent risks associated with our inexperience, which may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. There are material inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products and services, especially when new markets are not fully developed or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product are not mature. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, regulatory orders, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful implementation of new products or services. Failure to manage these risks, or failure of any product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to the storage of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information. Our products are designed to maintain the confidentiality and security of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information that is stored on our systems, which may include sensitive financial data. However, any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to this data could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, time-consuming and expensive litigation and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are difficult to recognize and react to. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures. 10 Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Mobile Deposit . We rely on trademark, trade secret, copyright and patent law, as well as a combination of non-disclosure, confidentiality and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology and rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. The PTO may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may expire or may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related technologies. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual provisions with the third parties that license technology to us and that obligate these third parties to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. There is no guarantee that these third parties would be successful in attempting to protect our rights in any such licensed technology. There is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents or other intellectual property or any intellectual property or technology licensed to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, partners, and customers. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Common law trademarks provide less protection than registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations. Claims that we infringe upon the rights, or have otherwise utilized proprietary information, of third parties may give rise to costly and lengthy litigation, and we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and defend against litigation. In the past, third parties have asserted claims that certain technologies incorporated in our products infringe on their patent rights. Although we have resolved past claims, there are currently claims pending against us by Rothschild Mobile Imaging Innovations, Inc. (RMII) (as more fully described in Item 3Legal Proceedings) that we have infringed on certain of their patents related to mobile imaging technology, and there can be no assurance that we will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting, directly or indirectly through our customers, that our products infringe, or may infringe, on their intellectual property rights, or otherwise utilize their proprietary information. If our technology and products are found to infringe upon or otherwise utilize the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property licensed to us; expend significant resources to redesign our products or technology to avoid infringement; discontinue the use and sale of infringing products; pay substantial damages; and defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our valuable management resources and limit our exclusive rights to the technology we have developed. 11 Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary righ ts. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attenti on of our management and key personnel from our business operations. As a result of a patent infringement or other intellectual property suit brought against us or our channel partners or licensees, we or our channel partners or licensees may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling technologies or potential products that are claimed to infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights unless that party grants us or our channel partners or licensees rights to use its intellectu al property. Ultimately, we may be unable to develop some of our technologies or potential products or may have to discontinue development of a product candidate or cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement or other intellect ual property claims, which could severely harm our business. Risks Related to our Operations If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel, or if any of our key executives or key employees discontinues his or her employment with us, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the key members of our management team and other key technical personnel. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our key personnel, or if we failed to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, it could materially and adversely affect our customer relationships, competitive position and revenues. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing developments required to refine our technologies and introduce future applications is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract, assimilate and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition within the high technology industry. We do not have any employment agreements providing for a specific term of employment with any member of our senior management. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We plan to grant stock options or other forms of equity awards in the future as a method of attracting and retaining employees, motivating performance and aligning the interests of employees with those of our stockholders. As of November 30, 2015, we had 602,691 shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to future grants of equity awards under our existing equity compensation plans, which may limit our ability to provide equity incentive awards to existing and future employees. If we are unable to adopt, implement and maintain equity compensation arrangements that provide sufficient incentives, we may be unable to retain our existing employees and attract additional qualified candidates. If we are unable to retain our existing employees, including qualified technical personnel, and attract additional qualified candidates, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legislation and governmental regulations enacted in the U.S. and other countries that apply to us or to our customers may require us to change our current products and services and/or result in additional expenses, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulations including changes in legislation and governmental regulations impacting financial institutions, insurance companies and mobile device companies, affect how our business is conducted. Globally, legislation and governmental regulations also influence our current and prospective customers activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. Any such increase in costs as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, cause us to change or limit our business practices or affect our financial condition and operating results. We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the integration of IDchecker. We expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems of IDchecker. There are a large number of systems and functions that must be integrated, including, but not limited to, management information, accounting and finance, billing, payroll and benefits and regulatory compliance. In addition, acquisitions of foreign entities, such as IDchecker, are particularly challenging because their prior practices may not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley and/or accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. 12 We may be unable to successfully integrate our busi ness with the business of IDchecker and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our management has limited integration experience and will be required to devote significant attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with that of IDchecker. In particular, the acquisition of IDchecker involves the combination of two companies that previously operated as independent companies in different countries. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following: complexities associated with managing our business and the business of IDchecker following the completion of the acquisition, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; integrating the workforces of the companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including costs to integrate the companies that may exceed anticipated costs. Any of the potential difficulties listed above could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our actual financial and operating results following the acquisition of IDchecker could differ materially from any expectations or guidance provided by us concerning our future financial and operating results. The combined company resulting from the recent acquisition of IDchecker may not perform as we or the market expects. Expectations regarding IDcheckers impact on our financial and operating results are subject to numerous assumptions, including assumptions derived from our diligence efforts concerning the status of and prospects for the business of IDchecker and assumptions relating to the near-term prospects for our industry generally and the market for the products of IDchecker in particular. Additional assumptions that we have made relate to numerous matters, including, without limitation, the following: projections of future revenues; anticipated financial performance of products and products currently in development; our expected capital structure after the acquisition, including after the distribution of any earnout-shares that may (under certain circumstances) become payable to the former shareholders of IDchecker; our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with the customers of IDchecker; and other financial and strategic risks of the acquisition. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the accuracy of our assumptions, including our assumptions with respect to future revenues or revenue growth rates, if any, of IDchecker. Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from currently anticipated results include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to realize incremental revenues from the acquisition in the amounts that we currently anticipate; risks relating to the willingness of customers and other partners of IDchecker to continue to conduct business with the combined company; and numerous risks and uncertainties that affect our industry generally and the markets for our products and those of IDchecker, specifically. Any failure to realize the financial benefits we currently anticipate from the acquisition would have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and financial condition and could materially and adversely affect the trading price or trading volume of our common stock. Due to the expansion of our operations into non-U.S. markets following our recent acquisition of IDchecker, we are now subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. IDchecker generates revenue in markets outside of the U.S. The risks inherent in global operations include: lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign laws and legal standards, including employment laws, and privacy laws, which may vary widely across the countries in which we sell our products; increased expense to comply with U.S. laws that apply to foreign corporations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; compliance with, and potentially adverse tax consequences of, foreign tax regimes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency exchange controls, price controls and limitations on repatriation of earnings; 13 local economic conditions; increased expense related to localization of products and development of foreign language marketing and sales materials; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictive employment regulations; difficulties and increased expense in implementing corporate policies and controls; international intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law; compliance with differing and changing local laws and regulations in multiple international locations, including regional data privacy laws, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations; and limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. If we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding our international business, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. Due to the additional uncertainties and risks of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, international acquisitions tend to entail risks and require additional oversight and management attention that are typically not attendant to acquisitions made within the U.S. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our international operations following our recent acquisition of IDchecker may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax and other laws and regulations. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors or agents. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities outside of the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we have implemented policies, training and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors or agents may violate our policies. Our recent acquisition of IDchecker may significantly increase our exposure to potential liability. IDchecker was not historically subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Sarbanes-Oxley, or other laws, to which we are subject, and we may become subject to liability if in the past, IDcheckers operations did not comply with such laws. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside of the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. Due to our recent acquisition of IDchecker, we are now subject to certain foreign tax regulations. Such regulations may not be clear, not consistently applied and subject to sudden change, particularly with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by the uncertain and changing nature of such tax regulations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is generally conducted in U.S. dollars. However, the costs of operating in the Netherlands and other European markets will be subject to the effects of exchange fluctuations of the Euro against the U.S. dollar. When the U.S. dollar weakens against the Euro, our operating costs denominated in such currency will increase. Fluctuations in the value of the Euro against the U.S. dollar will create greater uncertainty in our revenues and can adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. In recent years, there have been several changes in laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) and various other new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. 14 The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters and imposes requirements on publicly-held companies, including us, to, among other things, provide stockholders with a periodic advisory vote on ex ecutive compensation and also adds compensation committee reforms and enhanced pay-for-performance disclosures. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective upon enactment, others will be implemented upon the SECs adoption of related rules a nd regulations. The scope and timing of the adoption of such rules and regulations is uncertain and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley specifically requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure of