Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, but appear throughout this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, asset quality or other future financial or business performance, strategies, expectations or business prospects, or the impact of legal, regulatory or supervisory matters on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to our future business prospects, revenue, income, and financial condition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements reflect our judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors discussed under Item 1ARisk Factors, important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. These factors include, but are not limited to: adverse economic conditions; general decreases in demand for our products and services; changes in timing of introducing new products into the market; intense competition (including entry of new competitors), including among competitors with substantially greater resources than us; increased or adverse federal, state, and local government regulation; inadequate capital; unexpected costs; revenues and net income lower than anticipated; litigation; the possible fluctuation and volatility of operating results and financial conditions; inability to carry out our marketing and sales plans; and the loss of key employees and executives. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances that arise after the date of this Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The above list is not intended to be exhaustive and there may be other factors that could preclude us from realizing the predictions made in the forward-looking statements. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such factors or assess the impact, if any, of such factors on our financial position or results of operations. i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Mitek is a leading innovator of mobile capture and digital identity verification solutions. We are a software development company with expertise in artificial intelligence and machine learning. We are currently serving more than 6,100 financial services organizations and leading marketplace and financial technology ("fintech") brands across the globe. Our solutions are embedded in native mobile apps and mobile optimized websites to facilitate better mobile user experiences, fraud detection and reduction, and compliant transactions. Mitek's Mobile Deposit solution is used today by millions of consumers in the United States ("U.S.") and Canada for mobile check deposit. Miteks Mobile Verify is an important technology used to verify peoples identities at the point of onboarding via web or mobile device. Scanning an identity document enables an enterprise to identify the person with whom they are conducting business, comply with growing governmental Know Your Customer ("KYC") and Anti-Money Laundering ("AML") regulatory requirements, and to improve the overall customer experience for digital onboarding. To be sure the person submitting the identity document is who they say they are, Mitek's Mobile Verify Face Comparison provides an incremental layer of verification and compares the face on the identity document with the selfie photo of the user. Mitek's Mobile Verify Face Comparison technology uses advanced liveness detection so it cannot be spoofed. The identification capture process provided by Mitek can also provide prefill of much of the data obtained from the identity document into an application, requiring far fewer key strokes, reducing keying errors, and improving both operational efficiency and the customer experience. Today, the financial services verticals (banks, credit unions, lenders, payments processors, card issuers, fintech companies, etc.) represent the greatest percentage of use of our solutions, but there is accelerated adoption by marketplaces, sharing economy, telecommunications, healthcare, travel, and retail sectors. Similarly, websites that must verify the customers age (or other consumer information) prior to selling goods can do so by verifying identity documents. Mitek uses machine learning to constantly improve the product performance of Mobile Verify and applies artificial intelligence to increase automation and speed of approvals of identification documents. The core of our user experience is Mitek MiSnap, a touch-free automated capture technology, which can be incorporated across our product lines. It provides a simple and superior user-experience, making transactions on mobile devices fast, accurate, and easy for the consumer while helping organizations drive revenue from the increasingly popular mobile channel. Mobile Fill, our mobile identity capture solution, enables the camera to serve as a keyboard. Using Mobile Fill, consumers can quickly prefill any form with personal data by simply snapping a picture of their driver's license, credit card, or other similar identity document. Mobile Deposit is the category leading product that allows individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Our Mobile Deposit solution has now processed over two billion check deposits. Mitek began selling Mobile Deposit in the second fiscal quarter of 2008, and received our first patent issued for this product in August 2010. CheckReader , which we acquired through the acquisition of A2iA Group II, S.A.S. ("A2iA"), enables financial institutions to automatically extract data from a check image received across all deposit channels branch, ATM, RDC, and mobile. Through the automatic recognition of all fields on checks, whether handwritten or machine print, CheckReader speeds the time to deposit for banks and customers and reduces costs formerly incurred before images could be exchanged. We market and sell our products and services worldwide through internal, direct sales teams located in the U.S., Europe, and Latin America as well as through channel partners. Our partner sales strategy includes channel partners who are financial services technology providers and identity verification providers. These partners integrate our products into their solutions to meet the needs of their customers. Product and Technology Overview Technology During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we had one operating segment: the development, sale, and service of our proprietary software solutions related to mobile image capture and identity verification. 1 Our digital technology solutions are provided in two parts: (i) a software development kit ("SDK") for mobile automatic capture and (ii) a software platform which utilizes artificial intelligence and machine learning to classify and extract data and authenticate identity documents including passports, identity cards, driver's licenses, and checks using a camera-equipped mobile device. Our technology utilizes patented algorithms that analyze images of identity documents in many ways. These include image quality analysis, image repair and optimization, document identification and classification, data extraction, and authenticators that verify whether an identity document is an unaltered government-issued document. Products Mobile Deposit Mitek invented Mobile Deposit to allow individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Mobile Deposit is utilized by the mobile banking apps of U.S. and Canadian retail banks. As of September 30, 2018, more than 6,100 financial institutions had signed agreements to deploy Mobile Deposit . The Mobile Deposit process allows consumers to take photographs of the front and back of a check and then remotely deposit the check with their participating bank by submitting the images electronically. Mitek delivers a simple and easy user experience with our proprietary mobile automatic capture which assists users in capturing a usable image of a check by holding their mobile device over the check. We began selling Mobile Deposit in the second fiscal quarter of 2008. Mobile Verify Mobile Verify is an identity verification solution that can be integrated into mobile apps, mobile websites, and desktop applications. Mobile Verify combines our advanced auto capture experience and computer vision technology with our software platform which utilizes artificial intelligence and machine learning to perform algorithmic-based tests that verify the authenticity of thousands of types of identification documents globally, including passports, driver licenses, and identity cards. A key driver of digital identity verification is to meet stringent regulatory requirements mandated by governments and industry regulators for digital onboarding and money movement. Mobile Fill Mobile Fill, which includes our touch free automatic capture experience, enables the camera to serve as a keyboard. Using Mobile Fill, consumers can pre-fill forms with personal data by simply snapping a picture of their driver's license, passport, credit card, or other document. Organizations can use Mobile Fill for a variety of purposes, including streamlining the process of opening a checking, savings, or credit card account, paying a bill, activating a 'switch and save' offer, and more. Mobile Fill is available for native apps and mobile web applications. It is used by national and regional banks, credits unions, wireless telecom operators, and insurance providers. Mobile Docs Mobile Docs is a mobile document scanning solution. It enables consumers to take photos of documents resulting in scanner-quality images. Mobile Docs is used to submit the trailing documents required for digital account opening, lending, and other use cases where supporting documentation is required in a workflow. A2iA CheckReader A2iA CheckReader enables financial institutions to automatically extract data from checks once they have been scanned or photographed by the application. Easily integrated into mobile and server-based applications providing automatic image pre-processing and recognition capabilities, A2iA CheckReader allows for the automatic recognition of all fields on checks and generic payments documents, whether handwritten or machine print. CheckReader is utilized as a core component throughout a wide range of check processing applications; including ATMs, centralized and back office process, remittance, merchants, and fraud applications. A2iA CheckReader is deployed within eight of the top ten U.S.-based banks, 90% of French and Brazilian Banks, and 100% of UK banks. A2iA XE A2iA XE is powered by an RNN engine and delivers significantly higher levels of accuracy for check image processing. The technology is designed to locate and extract key fields on checks such as the amount (Courtesy Amount "CAR", and Legal Amount "LAR"), date, and payee name, regardless of whether the data is handwritten, machine print, or cursive handwriting. With built-in image quality analysis ("IQA") and image usability analysis ("IUA"), the toolkit also ensures that the check meets Check 21 requirements and other industry and regulatory standards. 2 A2iA DocumentReader A2iA DocumentReader is a comprehensive document classification and data extraction tool that is designed to drive successful workflow automation and accelerate access to actionable intelligence. A2iA TextReader A2iA TextReader enables full text transcription allowing for both printed and cursive handwritten text recognition to be transformed into searchable and editable document formats, without the use of a dictionary. ICAR ID_CLOUD ID_CLOUD is a fully automated identity verification solution that can be integrated into a customers application to instantly read and validate identity documents. ID_CLOUD automated technology enables global enterprises to improve their customer acquisition technology while meeting AML requirements in a safe and cost-effective manner. This solution is available in the cloud, via mobile websites, and desktop applications. Additionally, a version of ID_CLOUD is available that works locally on a desktop which is connected to a propriety hardware scanner for reading and validating identity documents. Sales and Marketing We derive revenue predominately from the sale of licenses (to both our on premise and software as a service ("SaaS") products) and transaction fees to use our Mobile Deposit, Mobile Verify , Mobile Fill, Mobile Docs, A2iA CheckReader, and ICAR ID_CLOUD products, and to a lesser extent by providing maintenance and professional services for the products we offer. The revenue we derive from the sale of such licenses is derived from both the sale to our channel partners of licenses to sell the applications we offer as well as the direct sale of licenses to customers. We have an internal marketing group that develops corporate and digital marketing strategies. The internal team executes these strategies with the help of external resources as needed to support both direct sales and channel partners sales efforts. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we derived revenue of $20.0 million from two customers, with such customers accounting for 22% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenue. For year ended September 30, 2017, we derived revenue of $10.4 million from one customer, with such customer accounting for 23% of our total revenue. For the year ended September 30, 2016, we derived revenue of $6.3 million from one customer, with such customer accounting for 18% of the Companys total revenue. Revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 27%, 14%, and 15% of the Companys total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2018, 2017, and 2016, respectively. Intellectual Property Our success depends in large part upon our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights primarily through a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third party non-disclosure agreements, and other measures. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product development, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. Further, there can be no assurance that our patents will offer any protection or that they will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or we infringe on the intellectual property rights of a third party, our operating results could be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2018, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued us 49 patents and we have filed for 21 additional domestic and international patents. We have 38 registered trademarks and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, as appropriate. We claim common law protection for, and may seek to register, other trademarks. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. Market Opportunities, Challenges and Risks We believe that financial institutions and other companies see our patented solutions as a way to provide an enhanced digital customer experience and, at the same time, create trust with customers and meet regulatory requirements. The value of digital transformation to our customers is an increase in top line revenue and a reduction in the cost of sales and service. We believe digital transformation initiatives are in their infancy. We predict growth in both our Mobile Deposit and our identity products based on current trends of bank branch closure, more stringent regulations, growing usage of online marketplaces, and ever-increasing demand for mobile sales, and service by millennials and mobile-first consumers. 3 Factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, our digital solutions, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile applications, or negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate, could result in lower revenues or gross margins. Further, because substantially all of our revenues are from a few types of technology, our product concentration may make us especially vulnerable to market demand and competition from other technologies, which could reduce our revenues. The sales cycle for our software and services can be lengthy and the implementation cycles for our software and services by our channel partners and customers can also be lengthy, often a minimum of six months and sometimes longer for larger customers, and require significant investments. If implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers is delayed or otherwise not completed, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Revenues related to most of our on-premise licenses for mobile products are required to be recognized up front upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. Revenue related to our SaaS products is recognized ratably over the life of the contract or as transactions are used depending on the contract criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the term of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers, and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. During each of the last few years, sales of licenses to one or more channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue each year. This is attributable to the timing of renewals or purchases of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. We have a growing number of competitors in the mobile capture and identity verification industry, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources. However, we believe our patented mobile capture and identity verification technology, our growing portfolio of products and geographic coverage for the financial services industry, and our market expertise gives us a distinct competitive advantage. To remain competitive, we must continue to offer products that are attractive to the consumer as well as being secure, accurate, and convenient. To help us remain competitive, we intend to further strengthen our portfolio of products through research and development as well as partnering with other technology providers. Competition The market for our products and solutions is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We face direct and indirect competition from a broad range of competitors who offer a variety of products and solutions to our current and potential customers. Our principal competition comes from: (i) customer-developed solutions; (ii) companies offering alternative methods of identity verification; and (iii) companies offering competing technologies capable of mobile remote deposit capture or authenticating identity documents and facial photo comparison. It is also possible that we will face competition from new industry participants or alternative technologies. Moreover, as the market for automated document processing, image recognition and authentication, check imaging, and fraud detection software develops, a number of companies with significantly greater resources than we have could attempt to enter or increase their presence in our industry, either independently or by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors, or otherwise increase their focus on the industry. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our current and potential customers. Our products are compliant with Service-Oriented Architecture standards and compete, to various degrees, with products produced by a number of substantial competitors. Competition among product providers in this market generally focuses on price, accuracy, reliability, and technical support. We believe our primary competitive advantages in this market are: (i) our mobile auto capture user experience used by millions of consumers; (ii) our patented science; (iii) scalability; and (iv) an architectural software design that allows our products to be more readily modified, improved with added functionality, and configured for new products, thereby allowing our software to be easily upgraded. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 4 Research and Development We develop software products internally and also purchase or license rights to third-party intellectual property. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products, and develop new products that meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Internal research and development allows us to maintain closer technical control over our products and gives us the ability to determine which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented to ensure the proper functioning of our software products. We intend to expand our existing product offerings and introduce new mobile capture and digital identity verification capabilities that meet a broader set of needs of our customers. We intend to continue to support the major industry standard operating environments. Our research and development organization includes software engineers and scientists, many of whom have advanced degrees, as well as additional personnel in quality assurance and related disciplines. All our scientists and software engineers are involved in product development. The development team includes specialists in artificial intelligence, computer vision, software engineering, user interface design, product documentation, and quality assurance. The team is responsible for maintaining and enhancing the performance, quality, and utility of all of our products. In addition to research and development, our engineering staff provides customer technical support on an as-needed basis. Our research and development expenses for the years ended September 30, 2018, 2017, and 2016 were $15.7 million, $10.4 million, and $7.8 million, respectively. We expect research and development expenses during fiscal year 2019 to increase as compared with those incurred in fiscal year 2018 as we continue our new product research and development efforts. Employees and Labor Relations As of September 30, 2018, we had 308 employees, 133 in the U.S. and 175 internationally, 293 of which are full time. Our total employee base consists of 149 sales and marketing and professional services employees, 113 research and development and support employees, and 46 employees in executive, finance, network administration, and other capacities. In addition, we engaged various consultants in the areas of research and development, product development, finance, and marketing during fiscal year 2018. We have never had a work stoppage and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization. Substantially all of our employees, other than certain number of our executive officers and employees with customary employment arrangements within Europe, are at will employees, which means that each employee can terminate his or her relationship with us and we can terminate our relationship with him or her at any time. We offer industry competitive wages and benefits and are committed to maintaining a workplace environment that promotes employee productivity and satisfaction. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information Mitek was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1986. Our principal offices are located at 600 B Street, Suite 100, San Diego, CA 92101 and our telephone number is (619) 269-6800. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are required to file reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including reports on the following forms: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and other information concerning us may be accessed, free of charge, through the SECs website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.miteksystems.com. These reports are placed on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor is it in any way a part of, this Form 10-K. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, projected results, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment or interest. Risks Associated With Our Business We have a history of losses and we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future. Our operations resulted in a net loss of $11.8 million, $5.3 million, and $7.3 million for the years ended September 30, 2018, 2014, and 2013, respectively. Although we generated net income for the years ended September 30, 2017, 2016, and 2015, we may experience future net losses which may limit our ability to fund our operations and we may not generate income from operations in the future. We have a history of losses and may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. As of September 30, 2018 and 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $21.0 million and $17.5 million, respectively. Our future profitability depends upon many factors, including several that are beyond our control. These factors include, without limitation: changes in the demand for our products and services; loss of key customers or contracts; the introduction of competitive software; the failure to gain market acceptance of our new and existing products; the failure to successfully and cost effectively develop, introduce and market new products, services and product enhancements in a timely manner; and the timing of recognition of revenue. In addition, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses related to being a public company. As a result of these expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve and maintain future profitability. We may need to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations and an inability to raise the necessary capital or to do so on acceptable terms could threaten the success of our business. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, such resources may not be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. If we determine that it is necessary to raise additional funds, we may choose to do so through strategic collaborations, licensing arrangements, public or private equity or debt financing, a bank line of credit, or other arrangements. We cannot be sure that any additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us or at all. Furthermore, any additional equity or equity-related financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our shares of common stock, and debt or equity financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. If we obtain funding through a strategic collaboration or licensing arrangement, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we may be required to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures or significantly curtail our operations. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited, which could result in our payment of income taxes earlier than if we were able to fully utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Federal and state tax laws impose restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards in the event of an ownership change as defined by Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Section 382). Generally, an ownership change occurs if the percentage of the value of the stock that is owned by one or more direct or indirect five percent shareholders increases by more than 50% over their lowest ownership percentage at any time during the applicable testing period (typically, three years). Under Section 382, if a corporation undergoes an 6 ownership change, the corporations ability to use its pre-change NOL and tax credit carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change income may be limited. While no ownership change has resulted in annual limitations, future changes in our stock ownership, which may be outside of our control, may trigger an ownership change. In addition, future equity offerings or acquisitions that have equity as a component of the purchase price could result in an ownership change. If an ownership change occurs in the future, utilization of the NOL carryforwards or other tax attributes may be limited, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us. We have adopted a Section 382 Rights Agreement, discussed below, to protect our utilization of the NOLs. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from a few types of technologies. If these technologies and the related products do not achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from license sales and services provided with our software products to customers incorporating our intelligent mobile imaging technology and software products. If we are unable to achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance of our core technologies or products incorporating such technologies, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. Additionally, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our products and services, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile image processing, negative publicity, or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If economic or other factors negatively affect the small and medium-sized business sector, our customers may become unwilling or unable to purchase our products and services, which could cause our revenue to decline. Many of our existing and target customers are in the small and medium-sized business sector. These businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our products and services. If small and medium-sized businesses experience economic hardship, it could negatively affect the overall demand for our products and services, and could cause our revenue to decline. We face competition from several companies that may have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share. We compete against numerous companies in the mobile imaging software market. Competition in this market may increase as a result of a number of factors, such as the entrance of new or larger competitors or alternative technologies. These competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger client bases, and greater brand or name recognition. These competitors could, among other things: announce new products or technologies that have the potential to replace our existing product offerings; force us to charge lower prices; or adversely affect our relationships with current clients. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors and if we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenue, operating margins, and market share could decline. We cannot predict the impact that the decline of the use of checks, changes in consumer behavior facilitated by advances in technologies, and the development of check alternatives, or the plateau of the penetration of active mobile banking users may have on our business. Over the last few years, the use of checks has started to decline. Advances in technologies have enabled the development of check alternatives like Zelle and Venmo, which have caused certain changes in consumer behavior. As check alternatives become more widely accepted by consumers, the use of checks could continue to decline, which could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, as the mobile banking market matures, the growth of active mobile banking users has slowed, which may impact the ability of our business to grow. 7 We must continue to engage in extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. Our ability to compete effectively with our mobile imaging software products depends upon our ability to meet changing market conditions and develop enhancements to our products on a timely basis in order to maintain our competitive advantage. The markets for products incorporating mobile imaging software technology and products are characterized by rapid advancements in technology and changes in user preferences. Our continued growth will ultimately depend upon our ability to develop additional technologies and attract strategic alliances for related or separate products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements and additional technologies, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, will be of acceptable quality, or will achieve market acceptance. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated greatly in the past and will likely continue to do so, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our common stock price. Our annual and quarterly operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly depending on factors including the timing of customer projects and purchase orders, new product announcements and releases by us and other companies, gain or loss of significant customers, price discounting of our products, the timing of expenditures, customer product delivery requirements, the availability and cost of components or labor, and economic conditions, both generally and in the information technology market. Revenues related to our licenses for mobile imaging software products are required to be recognized upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the terms of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. In fiscal years 2018, 2017, and 2016, sales of licenses to channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue. This is attributable to the timing of the purchase or renewal of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. Any unfavorable change in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for a particular quarter or year, which may cause downward pressure on our common stock price. We expect quarterly and annual fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. Our historical order flow patterns, which we expect to continue, have caused forecasting difficulties for us. If we do not meet our forecasts or analysts forecasts for us, the price of our common stock may decline. Historically, a significant portion of our sales have resulted from shipments during the last few weeks of the quarter from orders received in the final month of the applicable quarter. We do, however, base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, we expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. Any concentration of sales at the end of the quarter may limit our ability to plan or adjust operating expenses. Therefore, if anticipated shipments in any quarter do not occur or are delayed, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of sales, and our operating results for that quarter would be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. If our operating results for a quarter are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation, sales and profitability. Our business and the level of customer acceptance of our products depend upon the continuous, effective and reliable operation of our products. Our products are extremely complex and are continually being modified and improved, and as such may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. To the extent that defects or errors cause our products to malfunction and our customers use of our products is interrupted, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could decline or be delayed while such defects are remedied. We may also be subject to liability for the defects and malfunctions of third party technology partners and others with whom our products and services are integrated. In addition, our products are typically intended for use in applications that are critical to a customers business. As a result, we believe that our customers and potential customers have a greater sensitivity to product defects than the market for software products in general. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of 8 commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, adverse litigation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Entry into new lines of business, and our offering of new products and services, resulting from our acquisitions may result in exposure to new risks. New lines of business, products or services could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. New products and services, or entrance into new markets, may require substantial time, resources and capital, and profitability targets may not be achieved. Entry into new markets entails inherent risks associated with our inexperience, which may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. There are material inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products and services, especially when new markets are not fully developed or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product are not mature. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, regulatory orders, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful implementation of new products or services. Failure to manage these risks, or failure of any product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to the storage of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information. Our products may not provide absolute security. We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. Our products are designed to maintain the confidentiality and security of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information that is stored on our systems, which may include sensitive financial data and personally identifiable information about consumers. However, any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to this data could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, time-consuming and expensive litigation, and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity. Our maintenance and regular upgrade of our systems and processes, which are designed to protect the security of our products and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our clients, may not provide absolute security. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are difficult to recognize and react to. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our products could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our clients, or damage to our systems or those of our clients and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our clients, loss of confidence in our security measures, client dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, client perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of clients. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Mobile Deposit . We rely on trademark, trade secret, copyright, and patent law, as well as a combination of non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology and rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. The Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may expire or may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related technologies. Additionally, upon 9 expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual provisions with the third parties that license technology to us and that obligate these third parties to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. There is no guarantee that these third parties would be successful in attempting to protect our rights in any such licensed technology. There is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents or other intellectual property or any intellectual property or technology licensed to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary products or processes or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, partners, and customers. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Common law trademarks provide less protection than registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we fail to apply for intellectual property protection or if we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Claims that we infringe upon the rights, or have otherwise utilized proprietary information, of third parties may give rise to costly and lengthy litigation, and we could be prevented from selling products, forced to pay damages, and defend against litigation. In the past, third parties have asserted claims that certain technologies incorporated in our products infringe on their patent rights. Although we have resolved past claims that we have infringed on third party patents, there can be no assurance that we will not receive notices in the future from parties asserting, directly or indirectly through our customers, that our products infringe, or may infringe, on their intellectual property rights, or otherwise utilize their proprietary information (see also Item 3Legal Proceedings). If our technology and products are found to infringe upon or otherwise utilize the proprietary rights of other parties, we could incur substantial costs and we may have to: obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property licensed to us; expend significant resources to redesign our products or technology to avoid infringement; discontinue the use and sale of infringing products; pay substantial damages; and defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we win or lose, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our valuable management resources and limit our exclusive rights to the technology we have developed. Furthermore, we may initiate claims or litigation against parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. As a result of a patent infringement or other intellectual property suit brought against us or our channel partners or licensees, we or our channel partners or licensees may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling technologies or potential products that are claimed to infringe on a third partys intellectual property rights unless that party grants us or our channel partners or licensees rights to use its intellectual property. Ultimately, we may be unable to develop some of our technologies or potential products or may have to discontinue development of a product candidate or cease some of our business operations as a result of patent infringement or other intellectual property claims, which could severely harm our business. 10 Risks Related to our Operations If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel, or if any of our key executives or key employees discontinues his or her employment with us, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the key members of our management team and other key technical personnel. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our key personnel, or if we failed to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, it could materially and adversely affect our customer relationships, competitive position, and revenues. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing developments required to refine our technologies and introduce future applications is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition within the high technology industry. We do not have any employment agreements providing for a specific term of employment with any member of our senior management. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We plan to grant restricted stock units or other forms of equity awards in the future as a method of attracting and retaining employees, motivating performance and aligning the interests of employees with those of our stockholders. As of September 30, 2018, we had 2,745,093 shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to future grants of equity awards under our existing equity compensation plans, which may limit our ability to provide equity incentive awards to existing and future employees. If we are unable to adopt, implement and maintain equity compensation arrangements that provide sufficient incentives, we may be unable to retain our existing employees and attract additional qualified candidates. If we are unable to retain our existing employees, including qualified technical personnel, and attract additional qualified candidates, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Legislation and governmental regulations enacted in the U.S. and other countries that apply to us or to our customers may require us to change our current products and services and/or result in additional expenses, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulations including changes in legislation and governmental regulations impacting financial institutions, insurance companies, and mobile device companies, affect how our business is conducted. Globally, legislation and governmental regulations also influence our current and prospective customers activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. Any such increase in costs as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, cause us to change or limit our business practices or affect our financial condition and operating results. We expect to incur substantial expenses related to the integration of ICAR Vision Systems, S.L. and A2iA Group II, S.A.S. We expect to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems of ICAR Vision Systems, S.L., a company incorporated under the laws of Spain ("ICAR") and A2iA Group II, S.A.S., a simplified joint stock company formed under the laws of France ("A2iA"). There are a large number of systems and functions that must be integrated, including, but not limited to, management information, accounting and finance, billing, payroll and benefits, and regulatory compliance. In addition, acquisitions of foreign entities, such as ICAR and A2iA, are particularly challenging because their prior practices may not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley") and/or accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with the respective businesses of ICAR and A2iA and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Our management has limited integration experience and will be required to devote significant attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with that of ICAR and A2iA. In particular, the acquisitions of ICAR and A2iA involve the combination of two companies that previously operated as independent companies in different countries. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following: complexities associated with managing our business and the respective businesses of ICAR and A2iA following the completion of the acquisition, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks, and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; 11 integrating the workforces of the companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisition s, including costs to integrate the companies that may exceed anticipated costs. Any of the potential difficulties listed above could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. Our actual financial and operating results following the acquisitions of ICAR and A2iA could differ materially from any expectations or guidance provided by us concerning our future financial and operating results. The combined company resulting from the acquisitions of ICAR and A2iA may not perform as we or the market expects. Expectations regarding each of ICARs and A2iA's impact on our financial and operating results are subject to numerous assumptions, including assumptions derived from our diligence efforts concerning the status of and prospects for the businesses of ICAR and A2iA, respectively and assumptions relating to the near-term prospects for our industry generally and the market for the products of ICAR and A2iA in particular. Additional assumptions that we have made relate to numerous matters, including, without limitation, the following: projections of future revenues; anticipated financial performance of products and products currently in development; our expected capital structure after the acquisition s, including after the distribution of any earnout-shares that may (under certain circumstances) become payable to the former shareholders of ICAR; our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with the respective customers of ICAR and A2iA; and other financial and strategic risks of the acquisition s. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the accuracy of our assumptions, including our assumptions with respect to future revenues or revenue growth rates, if any, of ICAR or A2iA. Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from currently anticipated results include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to realize incremental revenues from the acquisitions in the amounts that we currently anticipate; risks relating to the willingness of customers and other partners of ICAR or A2iA to continue to conduct business with the combined company; and numerous risks and uncertainties that affect our industry generally and the markets for our products and those of each of ICAR and A2iA. Any failure to realize the financial benefits we currently anticipate from the acquisitions would have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and financial condition and could materially and adversely affect the trading price or trading volume of our common stock. Due to our operations in non-U.S. markets, we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We generate revenue in markets outside of the U.S. The risks inherent in global operations include: lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign laws and legal standards, including employment laws and privacy laws, which may vary widely across the countries in which we sell our products; increased expense to comply with U.S. laws that apply to foreign corporations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the "FCPA"); compliance with, and potentially adverse tax consequences of, foreign tax regimes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency exchange controls, price controls, and limitations on repatriation of earnings; local economic conditions; increased expense related to localization of products and development of foreign language marketing and sales materials; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictive employment regulations; difficulties and increased expense in implementing corporate policies and controls; 12 international intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law; compliance with differing and changing local laws and regulations in multiple international locations, including regional data privacy laws, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations; and limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. If we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding our international business, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Further, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. Due to the additional uncertainties and risks of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, international acquisitions tend to entail risks and require additional oversight and management attention that are typically not attendant to acquisitions made within the U.S. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our international operations may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax, and other laws and regulations. The FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities outside of the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our acquisitions of IDchecker, ICAR, and A2iA may significantly increase our exposure to potential liability under Anti-Corruption Laws. IDchecker, ICAR, and A2iA were not historically subject to the FCPA, Sarbanes-Oxley, or other laws, to which we are subject, and we may become subject to liability if in the past, IDcheckers, ICAR's, and A2iA's operations did not comply with such laws. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside of the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. Due to our international operations, we are subject to certain foreign tax regulations. Such regulations may not be clear, not consistently applied, and subject to sudden change, particularly with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by the uncertain and changing nature of such tax regulations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is generally conducted in U.S. dollars. However, we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. The costs of operating in The Netherlands, Spain, France, and other European markets are subject to the effects of exchange fluctuations of the Euro and British pound sterling against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, operating income, and the value of balance sheet items denoted in foreign currencies, and can adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), Sarbanes-Oxley, and various other new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters and imposes requirements on publicly-held companies, including us, to, among other things, provide stockholders with a periodic advisory vote on executive compensation and also adds compensation committee reforms and enhanced pay-for-performance disclosures. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective upon enactment, others will be implemented upon the SECs adoption of related rules and regulations. The scope and timing of the adoption of such rules and regulations is uncertain 13 and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley specifically requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure of