ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (this Form 10-Q), contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or they prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially and adversely from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements are contained principally in Part I, Item 2Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors, but appear throughout this Form 10-Q. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, asset quality, volatility of our common stock, financial condition or other future financial or business performance, strategies, expectations, or business prospects, or the impact of legal, regulatory or supervisory matters on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements reflect our judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors in this Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014, filed with the SEC on December 5, 2014 (the Form 10-K). Additionally, there may be other factors that could preclude us from realizing the predictions made in the forward-looking statements. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such factors or assess the impact, if any, of such factors on our financial position or results of operations. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-Q speak only as of the date of this Form 10-Q and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances after the date of this Form 10-Q or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In this Form 10-Q, unless the context indicates otherwise, the terms Mitek, the Company, we, us and our refer to Mitek Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation. Overview Mitek Systems, Inc. is a mobile solutions provider engaged in the development, sale and service of its proprietary software solutions related to mobile imaging. We apply our patented technology in image capture, correction and intelligent data extraction in the mobile financial and business applications markets. Our technology allows users to remotely deposit checks, pay bills, transfer credit card balances, open accounts and get insurance quotes by taking pictures of various documents with their camera-equipped smartphones and tablets instead of using the device keyboard. Our products use advanced algorithms to correct image distortion, extract relevant data, route images to their desired location and process transactions through users financial institutions. As of December 31, 2014, we have been granted 20 patents and have an additional 23 patent applications pending. Our Mobile Deposit product is software that allows users to remotely deposit a check using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. As of December 31, 2014, 3,304 financial institutions have signed agreements to deploy Mobile Deposit and 2,744 of these financial institutions have deployed Mobile Deposit to their customers, including all of the top ten, and nearly all of the top 50, U.S. 13 Table of Contents retail banks, as ranked by SNL Financial for the third quarter of calendar year 2014. Mobile Photo Account Opening , is a product that enables users to open a checking, savings or credit card account by capturing an image of the front and back of their drivers license with their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Mobile Photo Payments is a mobile direct bill pay solution that enables users to pay bills by taking a photo of their bill followed by a photo of the check or credit/debit card being used to pay the bill. Mobile Photo Bill Pay allows users to pay their bills using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Mobile Balance Transfer is a product that allows credit card issuers to provide balance transfer offers and enables users to transfer an existing credit card balance and establish a new credit card account by capturing an image of the users current credit card statement. Our mobile imaging software solutions are available for iOS and Android operating systems. We market and sell our mobile imaging software solutions through channel partners or directly to enterprise customers that typically purchase licenses based on the number of transactions or subscribers that use our mobile software. Our mobile imaging software solutions are often embedded in other mobile banking or enterprise applications developed by banks, insurance companies or their partners, and marketed under their own proprietary brands. Market Opportunities, Challenges and Risks The increase in the acceptance of mobile banking by financial institutions and their customers has helped drive our recent growth in revenue. In the past year, we experienced a significant increase in the number of financial institutions that have integrated and launched our mobile applications, particularly our Mobile Deposit product, as part of their offering of mobile banking choices for their customers. We believe that financial institutions see our patented solutions as a way to provide an enhanced customer experience and reduce the cost of sales and service. To sustain our growth in 2015 and beyond, we believe we must continue to offer imaging technology for mobile applications that address a growing market for mobile banking and mobile imaging solutions sold into other vertical markets. Factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our mobile applications, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile applications, or negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate, could result in lower revenues or gross margins. Further, because substantially all of our revenues are from a single type of technology, our product concentration may make us especially vulnerable to market demand and competition from other technologies, which could reduce our revenues. The implementation cycles for our software and services by our channel partners and customers can be lengthy, often a minimum of three to six months and sometimes longer for larger customers, and require significant investments. For example, as of December 31, 2014, we executed agreements indirectly through channel partners or directly with customers covering 3,304 Mobile Deposit customers, 2,744 of whom have completed implementation and launched Mobile Deposit to their customers. If implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers is delayed or otherwise not completed, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We derive revenue predominately from the sale of licenses to use the products covered by our patented technologies, such as our Mobile Deposit product, and to a lesser extent by providing maintenance and professional services for the products we offer. The revenue we derive from the sale of such licenses is primarily derived from the sale to our channel partners of licenses to sell the applications we offer. Revenues related to most of our licenses for mobile products are required to be recognized up front upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the term of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. During each of the last few quarters, sales of licenses to one or more channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue each quarter. This is attributable to the timing of renewals or purchases of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. We have a growing number of competitors in the mobile imaging industry, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources. However, we believe our patented imaging and analytics technology, our growing portfolio of products for the financial services industry and our market leadership give us a distinct competitive advantage. To remain competitive, we must continue to offer products that are attractive to the consumer as well as being secure, accurate and convenient. To help us remain competitive, we intend to continue to strengthen our portfolio of products through research and development as well as partnering with other technology providers. 14 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 The following table summarizes certain aspects of our results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 ( in thousands, except percentages ): December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Change $ Change % Revenue Software $ 3,746 $ 3,170 $ 576 18 % Maintenance and professional services 1,643 1,293 350 27 % Total revenue $ 5,389 $ 4,463 $ 926 21 % Cost of revenue $ 497 $ 571 $ (74 ) -13 % % of revenue 9 % 13 % Selling and marketing $ 1,438 $ 1,850 $ (412 ) -22 % % of revenue 27 % 41 % Research and development $ 1,155 $ 1,526 $ (371 ) -24 % % of revenue 21 % 34 % General and administrative $ 2,165 $ 1,997 $ 168 8 % % of revenue 40 % 45 % Other income (expense), net $ 15 $ 14 $ 1 7 % % of revenue 0 % 0 % Revenue Total revenue increased $926,798, or 21%, to $5,389,322 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $4,462,524 in the three months ended December 31, 2013. The increase was primarily due to an increase in sales of software licenses of $576,653, or 18%, to $3,746,517 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $3,169,864 in the three months ended December 31, 2013. The increase in software license revenue primarily relates to increases in sales of our Mobile Deposit and Mobile Photo Account Opening products and the timing of license renewals in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2013. Maintenance and professional services revenue increased $350,145, or 27%, to $1,642,805 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $1,292,660 in the three months ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to the sale of additional software license arrangements, which typically include recurring maintenance contracts. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes the costs of royalties for third party products embedded in our products and personnel costs related to software support and billable professional services engagements. Cost of revenue decreased $73,296, or 13%, to $497,401 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $570,697 in the three months ended December 31, 2013. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue decreased to 9% in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to 13% in the three months ended December 31, 2013. The decreases in cost of revenue are primarily due to a relatively lower mix of sales of products containing third-party software on which we pay royalties. Selling and Marketing Expenses Selling and marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits and other headcount-related costs associated with sales and marketing personnel, non-billable time for professional services personnel and advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars and other programs. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $411,835, or 22%, to $1,438,066 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $1,849,901 in the three months ended December 31, 2013. The decrease is primarily due to lower personnel-related costs, including commission expense related to our focus on channel sales during late fiscal 2014. As a percentage of revenue, selling and marketing expenses decreased to 27% in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to 41% in the three months ended December 31, 2013, also primarily due to lower personnel-related costs. 15 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits, consultant expenses and other headcount-related costs associated with software engineering and mobile imaging science. Research and development expenses decreased $370,432, or 24%, to $1,155,142 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $1,525,574 in the three months ended December 31, 2013. The decrease is primarily due to lower personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense related to focusing our development efforts during late fiscal 2014. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses decreased to 21% in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to 34% in the three months ended December 31, 2013, also primarily due to lower personnel-related costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, and other headcount-related costs associated with finance, administration and information technology, as well as legal, accounting and other administrative fees. General and administrative expenses increased $167,639, or 8%, to $2,164,839 in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $1,997,200 in the three months ended December 31, 2013. The increase is primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, including stock-based and other incentive compensation expense. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses decreased to 40% in the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to 45% in the three months ended December 30, 2013, primarily due to the increase in revenue. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net increased $1,694, or 13%, to $15,203 for the three months ended December 31, 2014 compared to $13,509 for the three months ended December 31, 2013, primarily due to higher cash balances. On December 31, 2014, we had $26,944,374 in cash and cash equivalents and investments compared to $26,107,778 on September 30, 2014, an increase of $836,596, or 3%. The increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments was primarily due to an increase in cash provided by operating activities. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2014 was $921,966. Cash provided by operating activities increased due to an increase in deferred revenue of $950,712, partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable of $572,520, all associated with the growth of our business. The primary non-cash adjustments to operating activities were stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and accretion and amortization on debt securities totaling $814,060, $107,700, and $98,312, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended December 31, 2013 was $1,543,583 and resulted primarily from hiring additional personnel and making other investments associated with the growth of our business. In addition to the net loss, cash used in operating activities included a decrease in working capital balances of $4,654,374, primarily due to cash in the amount of $4,052,426 used to purchase long-term investments. The primary non-cash adjustments to operating activities were stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and accretion and amortization on debt securities totaling $829,071, $116,175, and $94,725, respectively. Net Cash Provided by (Used In) Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $4,090,828 during the three months ended December 31, 2014, which consisted of $2,826,867 related to the purchase of investments and $13,393 related to the purchase of property and equipment, offset by cash provided by the sales and maturities of investments of $6,931,088. Net cash used in investing activities was $11,608,776 during the three months ended December 31, 2013, which consisted of $14,071,179 related to the purchase of investments and $16,221 related to the purchase of property and equipment, partially offset by cash provided by the sales and maturities of investments of $2,478,624. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $4,687 during the three months ended December 31, 2014, which included net proceeds of $9,748 from the exercise of stock options and settlement of restricted stock units, partially offset by principal payments on capital lease obligations of $5,061. 16 Table of Contents Net cash provided by financing activities was $34,888 during the three months ended December 31, 2013, which included net proceeds of $39,421 from the exercise of stock options and settlement of restricted stock units, partially offset by principal payments on capital lease obligations of $4,533. Other Liquidity Matters On December 31, 2014, we had investments of $14,160,303, designated as available-for-sale marketable securities, which consisted of commercial paper and corporate issuances, carried at fair value as determined by quoted market prices for identical or similar assets, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, and reported as a separate component of stockholders equity. All securities whose maturity or sale is expected within one year are classified as current on the balance sheet. All other securities are classified as long-term on the balance sheet. At December 31, 2014, all of our available-for-sale securities were classified as current. At September 30, 2014, we had $16,269,170 of our available-for-sale securities classified as current and $2,072,018 were classified as long-term. We had working capital of $24,529,099 at December 31, 2014 compared to $21,484,020 at September 30, 2014. Based on our current operating plan, we believe the current cash balance and cash expected to be generated from operations will be adequate to satisfy our working capital needs for the next 12 months. Critical Accounting Policies Our financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, stockholders equity, revenue, expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Management regularly evaluates its estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, and form the basis for making managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. Actual results could vary from those estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies include revenue recognition, allowance for accounts receivable, investments, fair value of equity instruments, accounting for income taxes and capitalized software development costs. Revenue Recognition We enter into contractual arrangements with integrators, resellers and end-users that may include licensing of our software products, product support and maintenance services, consulting services, or various combinations thereof, including the sale of such products or services separately. Our accounting policies regarding the recognition of revenue for these contractual arrangements is fully described in Note 1 to our financial statements included in this Form 10-Q. We consider many factors when applying GAAP to revenue recognition. These factors include, but are not limited to, whether: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; Delivery of the product or performance of the service has occurred; The fees are fixed or determinable; Collection of the contractual fee is probable; and Vendor-specific objective evidence of the fair value of undelivered elements or other appropriate method of revenue allocation exists. Each of the relevant factors is analyzed to determine its impact, individually and collectively with other factors, on the revenue to be recognized for any particular contract with a customer. Management is required to make judgments regarding the significance of each factor in applying the revenue recognition standards, as well as whether or not each factor complies with such standards. Any misjudgment or error by management in its evaluation of the factors and the application of the standards, especially with respect to complex or new types of transactions, could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and operating results. Accounts Receivable We regularly monitor collections from our customers and maintain a provision for estimated credit losses that is based on historical experience and on specific customer collection issues. While such credit losses have historically been within our expectations and the provisions established, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. Since our revenue recognition policy requires customers to be deemed creditworthy, our accounts receivable are 17 Table of Contents based on customers whose payment is reasonably assured. Our accounts receivable are derived from sales to a wide variety of customers. We do not believe a change in liquidity of any one customer or our inability to collect from any one customer would have a material adverse effect on our financial position. Investments We determine the fair value of our assets and liabilities based on the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. We use a fair value hierarchy based on the following three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, of which the first two are considered observable and the last unobservable: Level 1Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2Inputs other than Level 1 that are observable, either directly or indirectly, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; and Level 3Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. In using this fair value hierarchy, management may be required to make assumptions about pricing by market participants and assumptions about risk, specifically when using unobservable inputs to determine fair value. These assumptions are judgmental in nature and may significantly affect our results of operations. Fair Value of Equity Instruments The valuation of certain items, including valuation of warrants and compensation expense related to stock options granted, involves significant estimates based on underlying assumptions made by management. The valuation of warrants and stock options is based upon a Black-Scholes valuation model, which involves estimates of stock volatility, expected life of the instruments and other assumptions. Deferred Income Taxes Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. We maintain a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset due to uncertainty regarding the future realization based on historical taxable income, projected future taxable income and the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences. Until such time as we can demonstrate that we will no longer incur losses, or if we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, we could be required to maintain the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Capitalized Software Development Costs Research and development costs are charged to expense as incurred. However, the costs incurred for the development of computer software that will be sold, leased or otherwise marketed are capitalized when technological feasibility has been established. Software development costs consist primarily of compensation of development personnel, related overhead incurred to develop new products and upgrade and enhance our current products, and fees paid to outside consultants. Capitalization of costs ceases and amortization of capitalized software development costs commences when the products are available for general release. For the three months ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, no software development costs were capitalized because the time period and cost incurred between technological feasibility and availability for general release for all software product releases was immaterial.