Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, but appear throughout this Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements may include, but are not limited to, statements relating to our outlook or expectations for earnings, revenues, expenses, asset quality or other future financial or business performance, strategies, expectations or business prospects, or the impact of legal, regulatory or supervisory matters on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Specifically, forward-looking statements may include statements relating to our future business prospects, revenue, income, and financial condition. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as estimate, plan, project, forecast, intend, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target, or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements reflect our judgment based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors discussed under Item 1ARisk Factors, important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations. These factors include, but are not limited to: adverse economic conditions; general decreases in demand for our products and services; changes in timing of introducing new products into the market; intense competition (including entry of new competitors), including among competitors with substantially greater resources than us; increased or adverse federal, state, and local government regulation; inadequate capital; unexpected costs; revenues and net income lower than anticipated; litigation; the possible fluctuation and volatility of operating results and financial conditions; inability to carry out our marketing and sales plans; and the loss of key employees and executives. All forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K and you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect any events or circumstances that arise after the date of this Form 10-K or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The above list is not intended to be exhaustive and there may be other factors that could preclude us from realizing the predictions made in the forward-looking statements. We operate in a continually changing business environment and new factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict such factors or assess the impact, if any, of such factors on our financial position or results of operations. i PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview Mitek is a leading innovator of mobile image capture and digital identity verification solutions. We are a software development company with expertise in computer vision, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. We are currently serving more than 6,500 financial services organizations and leading marketplace and financial technology (fintech) brands across the globe. Our solutions are embedded in native mobile apps and browsers to facilitate better online user experiences, fraud detection and reduction, and compliant transactions. Miteks Mobile Deposit solution is used today by millions of consumers in the United States (U.S.) and Canada for mobile check deposit. Mobile Deposit enables individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Our Mobile Deposit solution is embedded within the financial institutions digital banking apps used by consumers and has now processed over three billion check deposits. Mitek began selling Mobile Deposit in early 2008 and received its first patent issued for this product in August 2010. Miteks Mobile Verify verifies a users identity online enabling organizations to build safer digital communities. Scanning an identity document helps enable an enterprise to verify the identity of the person with whom they are conducting business, comply with growing governmental Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) regulatory requirements, and to improve the overall customer experience for digital onboarding. To be sure the person submitting the identity document is who they say they are, Miteks Mobile Verify Face Comparison provides an additional layer of online verification and compares the face on the submitted identity document with the live selfie photo of the user. The combination of identity document capture and data extraction process enables the organization to prefill the end users application, with far fewer key strokes, thus reducing keying errors, and improving both operational efficiency and the customer experience. Today, the financial services verticals (banks, credit unions, lenders, payments processors, card issuers, fintech companies, etc.) represent the greatest percentage of use of our solutions, but there is accelerated adoption by marketplaces, sharing economy, and hospitality sectors. Mitek uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to constantly improve the product performance of Mobile Verify such as speed and accuracy of approvals of identification documents. The core of our user experience is driven by Mitek MiSnap, the leading image capture technology, which is incorporated across our product lines. It provides a simple, intuitive, and superior user-experience, making digital transactions faster, more accurate, and easier for the consumer. Mobile Fill automates application prefill of any form with user data by simply snapping a picture of the drivers license or other similar user identity document. CheckReader enables financial institutions to automatically extract data from a check image received across any deposit channel branch, ATM, RDC, and mobile. Through the automatic recognition of all fields on checks, whether handwritten or machine print, CheckReader speeds the time to deposit for banks and customers and helps enable financial institutions to comply with check clearing regulations. We market and sell our products and services worldwide through internal, direct sales teams located in the U.S., Europe, and Latin America as well as through channel partners. Our partner sales strategy includes channel partners who are financial services technology providers and identity verification providers. These partners integrate our products into their solutions to meet the needs of their customers. Product and Technology Overview Technology During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we had one operating segment: the development, sale, and service of our proprietary software solutions related to mobile image capture and identity verification. Our digital technology solutions are provided in two parts: (i) a software development kit (SDK) for mobile image capture and (ii) a software platform which utilizes artificial intelligence and machine learning to classify and extract data to enable mobile check deposit as well as aid the authentication of identity documents including passports, identity cards, and driver's licenses using a camera-equipped device. Our technology utilizes patented algorithms that analyze images of identity documents in many ways. These include image quality analysis, image repair and optimization, document identification and classification, data extraction, and authenticators. 1 Products Mobile Deposit Mitek invented Mobile Deposit to allow individuals and businesses to remotely deposit checks using their camera-equipped smartphone or tablet. Mobile Deposit is utilized by the mobile banking apps of retail banks. As of September 30, 2019, more than 6,500 U.S. financial institutions had signed agreements to deploy Mobile Deposit . The Mobile Deposit process allows consumers to take photographs of the front and back of a check and then remotely deposit the check with their participating bank by submitting the images electronically. Mitek delivers a simple and easy user experience with our proprietary mobile automatic capture which assists users in capturing a usable image of a check by holding their mobile device over the check. We began selling Mobile Deposit in early 2008. Mobile Verify Mobile Verify is an identity verification solution that can be integrated into mobile apps, mobile websites, and desktop applications. Mobile Verify combines an optimal image capture experience with our leading document authentication technology assisting our customers validate that the identity document presented in a digital transaction is genuine and unaltered. Adding a second layer for identity proofing, Mobile Verify ties the portrait extracted from the identity document with a selfie of its presenter by doing a biometric face comparison. The Mobile Verify identity verification engine is a modular cross-platform architecture, which is built on machine learning and advanced computer vision algorithms. In order to achieve the highest accuracy rates, Miteks technology was conceptualized to verify the authenticity of an identity document in the following systematic approach: Guided document capture, enabling users to take a quality photo for optimal processing; Document classification computer vision algorithms recognize and classify thousands of diverse identity documents allowing for reliable data extraction; Data extraction that goes beyond traditional OCR to deconstruct the document and analyze the content of each field; and Evaluation of authenticity elements, uses a combination of machine learning techniques and unique computer vision algorithms to help determine the authenticity of a document by evaluating several elements within the document. Mobile Fill Mobile Fill, which includes automatic image capture, minimizes the numbers of clicks and expedites form fill completion. In mere seconds, and just by taking a photo, prospects can complete application forms and quickly become approved users. Organizations can use Mobile Fill for a variety of purposes, including streamlining the process of opening a checking, savings, or credit card account, paying a bill, activating a switch and save offer, and more. Mobile Fill is available for native apps and browser applications. Mobile Docs Mobile Docs is a mobile document scanning solution. It enables consumers to take photos of documents resulting in scanner-quality images. Mobile Docs is used to submit the trailing documents required for digital account opening, lending, and other use cases where supporting documentation is required in a workflow. CheckReader CheckReader enables financial institutions to automatically extract data from checks once they have been scanned or photographed by the application. Easily integrated into mobile and server-based applications providing automatic image pre-processing and recognition capabilities, CheckReader allows for the automatic recognition of all fields on checks and generic payments documents, whether handwritten or machine print. CheckReader is utilized as a core component throughout a wide range of check processing applications; including ATMs, centralized and back office processes, remittance, merchants, and fraud applications. CheckReader is deployed within eight of the top ten U.S.-based banks, 90% of French and Brazilian Banks, and 100% of United Kingdom banks. XE XE is powered by a recurrent neural network engine and delivers significantly higher levels of accuracy for check image processing. The technology is designed to locate and extract key fields on checks such as the amount (Courtesy Amount and Legal Amount), date, and payee name, regardless of whether the data is handwritten, machine print, or cursive handwriting. With built-in image quality analysis and image usability analysis, the toolkit also ensures that the check meets the Check Clearing for the 21 st Century Act requirements and other industry and regulatory standards. 2 ID_CLOUD ID_CLOUD is a fully automated identity verification solution that can be integrated into a customers application to instantly read and validate identity documents. ID_CLOUD automated technology enables global enterprises to improve their customer acquisition technology while meeting AML requirements in a safe and cost-effective manner. This solution is available in the cloud, via mobile websites, and desktop applications. Additionally, a version of ID_CLOUD is available that works locally on a desktop which is connected to a propriety hardware scanner for reading and validating identity documents. Sales and Marketing We derive revenue predominately from the sale of licenses (to both our on premise and transactional software as a service (SaaS) products) and transaction fees to use our Mobile Deposit, Mobile Verify, Mobile Fill, Mobile Docs, CheckReader, and ID_CLOUD products, and to a lesser extent by providing maintenance and professional services for the products we offer. The revenue we derive from the sale of such licenses is derived from both the sale to our channel partners of licenses to sell the applications we offer as well as the direct sale of licenses and services to customers. We have an internal marketing group that develops corporate and digital marketing strategies. The internal team executes these strategies with the help of external resources as needed to support both direct sales and channel partners sales efforts. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we derived revenue of $22.8 million from two customers, with such customers accounting for 17% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2018, we derived revenue of $20.0 million from two customers, with such customers accounting for 22% and 10%, respectively, of our total revenue. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2017, we derived revenue of $10.4 million from one customer, with such customer accounting for 23% of the Companys total revenue. Deposits revenue accounted for approximately 67%, 65%, and 71% of the Companys total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Identity verification revenue accounted for approximately 33%, 35%, and 29% of the Companys total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 31%, 27%, and 14% of the Companys total revenue for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Intellectual Property Our success depends in large part upon our proprietary technology. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights primarily through a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third party non-disclosure agreements, and other measures. We believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product development, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technological leadership position. There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate. We seek to protect our software, documentation, and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. Further, there can be no assurance that our patents will offer any protection or that they will not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, or we infringe on the intellectual property rights of a third party, our operating results could be adversely affected. As of September 30, 2019, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued us 57 patents and we have filed for 25 additional domestic and international patents. We have 38 registered trademarks and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, as appropriate. We claim common law protection for, and may seek to register, other trademarks. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees. Market Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks We believe that financial institutions, fintechs, and other companies see our patented solutions as a way to provide a superior digital customer experience to meet growing consumers demands of trust and convenience online and, at the same time, assist them in meeting regulatory requirements. The value of digital transformation to our customers is a possible increase in top line revenue and a reduction in the cost of sales and service. As the use of new technology increases, so does associated fraud and cyber-attacks. The negative outcomes of fraud and cyber-attacks encompass financial losses, brand damage, and loss of loyal customers. We predict growth in both our deposits and identity verification products based on current trends in payments, online lending, more stringent regulations, growing usage of sharing apps and online marketplaces, and the ever-increasing demand for digital services. Factors adversely affecting the pricing of, or demand for, our digital solutions, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for digital transactions, or negative publicity or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate, could result in lower revenues or gross margins. Further, because substantially all of our revenues are from a few types of technology, our product concentration may make us especially vulnerable to market demand and competition from other technologies, which could reduce our revenues. 3 The sales cycle for our software and services can be lengthy and the implementation cycles for our software and services by our channel partners and customers can also be lengthy, often as long as six months and sometimes longer for larger customers. If implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers is delayed or otherwise not completed, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Revenues related to most of our on-premise licenses for mobile products are required to be recognized up front upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. Revenue related to our SaaS products is recognized ratably over the life of the contract or as transactions are used depending on the contract criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the term of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers, and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. During each of the last few years, sales of licenses to one or more channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue each year. This is attributable to the timing of renewals or purchases of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. We have a growing number of competitors in the mobile image capture and identity verification industry, many of which have greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources. However, we believe our patented mobile image capture and identity verification technology, our growing portfolio of products and geographic coverage for the financial services industry, and our market expertise gives us a distinct competitive advantage. To remain competitive, we must continue to offer products that are attractive to the consumer as well as being secure, accurate, and convenient. To help us remain competitive, we intend to further strengthen performance of our portfolio of products through research and development as well as partnering with other technology providers. Competition The market for our products and solutions is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change, and significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants. We face direct and indirect competition from a broad range of competitors who offer a variety of products and solutions to our current and potential customers. Our principal competition comes from: (i) customer-developed solutions; (ii) companies offering alternative methods of identity verification; and (iii) companies offering competing technologies capable of mobile remote deposit capture or authenticating identity documents and facial photo comparison. It is also possible that we will face competition from new industry participants or alternative technologies. Moreover, as the market for automated document processing, image recognition and authentication, check imaging, and fraud detection software develops, a number of companies with significantly greater resources than we have could attempt to enter or increase their presence in our industry, either independently or by acquiring or forming strategic alliances with our competitors, or otherwise increase their focus on the industry. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our current and potential customers. Our products are compliant with Service-Oriented Architecture standards and compete, to various degrees, with products produced by a number of substantial competitors. Competition among product providers in this market generally focuses on price, accuracy, reliability, global coverage, and technical support. We believe our primary competitive advantages in this market are: (i) our mobile auto image capture user experience used by millions of consumers; (ii) our patented science; (iii) scalability; and (iv) an architectural software design that allows our products to be more readily modified, improved with added functionality, and configured for new products, thereby allowing our software to be easily upgraded. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Research and Development We develop software products internally and also purchase or license rights to third-party intellectual property. We believe that our future success depends in part on our ability to maintain and improve our core technologies, enhance our existing products, and develop new products that meet an expanding range of customer requirements. Internal research and development allows us to maintain closer technical control over our products and gives us the ability to determine which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they should be implemented to ensure the proper functioning and improved performance of our products. We intend to expand our existing product offerings and introduce new mobile image capture and digital identity verification capabilities that meet a broader set of needs of our customers. We intend to continue to support the major industry standard operating environments. 4 Our research and development organization includes software engineers and scientists, many of whom have advanced degrees, as well as additional personnel in quality assurance and related disciplines. All our scientists and software engineers are involved in product development. The development team includes specialists in artificial intelligence, computer vision, software engineering, user interface design, product documentation, and quality assurance. The team is responsible for maintaining and enhancing the performance, quality, and utility of all of our products. In addition to research and development, our engineering staff provides customer technical support on an as-needed basis. Our research and development expenses for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2019, 2018, and 2017 were $19.0 million, $15.7 million, and $10.4 million, respectively. We expect research and development expenses during fiscal year 2020 to increase as compared with those incurred in fiscal year 2019 as we continue our new product research and development efforts. Employees and Labor Relations As of September 30, 2019, we had 284 employees, 133 in the U.S. and 151 internationally, 272 of which are full time. Our total employee base consists of 146 sales and marketing, professional services, and document review employees, 92 research and development and support employees, and 46 employees in executive, finance, network administration, and other capacities. In addition, we engaged various consultants in the areas of research and development, product development, finance, and marketing during fiscal year 2019. We have never had a work stoppage and none of our employees are represented by a labor organization. Substantially all of our employees, other than certain number of our executive officers and employees with customary employment arrangements within Europe, are at will employees, which means that each employee can terminate his or her relationship with us and we can terminate our relationship with him or her at any time. We offer industry competitive wages and benefits and are committed to maintaining a workplace environment that promotes employee productivity and satisfaction. We consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information Mitek was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1986. Our principal offices are located at 600 B Street, Suite 100, San Diego, CA 92101 and our telephone number is (619) 269-6800. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Consequently, we are required to file reports and information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including reports on the following forms: annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. These reports and other information concerning us may be accessed, free of charge, through the SECs website at www.sec.gov and our website at www.miteksystems.com. These reports are placed on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Information contained in, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, nor is it in any way a part of, this Form 10-K. 5 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The following risk factors and other information included in this Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, projected results, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment or interest. Risks Associated With Our Business and Operations We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from a few types of technologies. If these technologies and the related products do not achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from license sales and services provided with our software products to customers incorporating our intelligent mobile imaging technology and software products. If we are unable to achieve or continue to achieve market acceptance of our core technologies or products incorporating such technologies, we will not generate significant revenue growth from the sale of our products. Additionally, factors adversely affecting the pricing of or demand for our products and services, such as competition from other products or technologies, any decline in the demand for mobile image processing, negative publicity, or obsolescence of the software environments in which our products operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact that the decline of the use of checks, changes in consumer behavior facilitated by advances in technologies, and the development of check alternatives, or the plateau of the penetration of active mobile banking users may have on our business. Over the last few years, the use of checks has started to decline. Advances in technologies have enabled the development of check alternatives like Zelle and Venmo, which have caused certain changes in consumer behavior. As check alternatives become more widely accepted by consumers, the use of checks could continue to decline, which could have a negative effect on our business. In addition, as the mobile banking market matures, the growth of active mobile banking users is slowing, which may negatively impact our ability to grow our business. Claims that our products infringe upon the rights, or have otherwise utilized proprietary information, of third parties may give rise to costly litigation against us or our customers who we may be obligated to indemnify, and we could be prevented from selling those products, required to pay damages, and obligated to defend against litigation or indemnify our customers. In the past, third parties have brought claims against us and against our customers who use our products asserting that certain technologies incorporated into our products infringe on their intellectual property rights. Although we have resolved past claims against us that we have infringed on third party patents, there can be no assurance that we will not receive additional claims against us asserting that our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties or that our products otherwise utilize such third parties proprietary information. The Company is subject to indemnification demands related to various offers to license patents and allegations of patent infringement against several end-customers. Some of the offers and allegations have resulted in ongoing litigation. The Company is not a party to any such litigation. License offers to and infringement allegations against the Companys end-customers were made by Lighthouse Consulting Group, LLC; Lupercal, LLC; Pebble Tide, LLC; Dominion Harbor Group, LLC; and IP Edge, LLC, which appear to be non-practicing entities (NPEs)often called patent trollsand not the Companys competitors. These NPEs may seek to exact settlements from our end-customers, resulting in new or renewed indemnification demands to the Company. At this time, the Company does not believe it is obligated to indemnify any customers or end-customers resulting from license offers or patent infringement allegations by the companies listed above. However, the Company could incur substantial costs if it is determined that it is required to indemnify any customers or end-customers in connection with these offers or allegations. Given the potential for impact to other customers and the industry, the Company is actively monitoring the offers, allegations and any resulting litigation. On July 7, 2018, United Services Automobile Association (USAA) filed a lawsuit against Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) in the Eastern District of Texas alleging that Wells Fargos remote deposit capture systems (which in part utilize technology provided by us to Wells Fargo through a partner), infringe four USAA owned patents related to mobile deposits (the First Wells Lawsuit). On August 17, 2018, USAA filed a second lawsuit (the Second Wells Lawsuit and together with the First Wells Lawsuit, the Wells Lawsuits) against Wells Fargo in the Eastern District of Texas asserting that an additional five patents owned by USAA were infringed by Wells Fargos remote deposit capture system. Subsequently, on November 6, 2019, a jury in the First Wells Lawsuit found that Wells Fargo willfully infringed at least one of the Subject Patents (as defined below) and awarded USAA $200 million in damages. The jury verdict is subject to post-trial motions and appeal by Wells Fargo. The Second Wells Lawsuit is ongoing 6 and no final judgments or awards have been made to date. Given the potential impact such litigation could have on the use of our products by Wells Fargo, our other customers, as well as the industry as a whole, we are closely monitoring the Wells Lawsuits. While the Wells Lawsuits do not name us as a defendant, given the Companys prior history of litigation with USAA and the continued use of our products by our customers, on November 1, 2019, we filed a Complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking declaratory judgment (the DJ Action) that our products do not infringe USAAs U.S. Patent Nos. 8,699,779; 9,336,517; 9,818,090; and 8,977,571 (collectively, the Subject Patents). We intend to vigorously defend our right to utilize our products free and clear of the Subject Patents. However, this litigation is at an early stage and the outcome is uncertain. USAA has not filed a response to the DJ Action or otherwise made any claims directly against the Company, but could do so in the future or otherwise proceed to file a claim for patent infringement. If such a claim were brought and the court ruled in favor of USAA, we could be enjoined from utilizing certain of our products, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, prospects, and results of operations. If our technology or products are found to infringe upon or otherwise utilize the intellectual property rights of third parties, including USAA, we could incur substantial costs as we may have to: obtain licenses, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, and may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property licensed to us; expend significant resources to redesign our products or technology to avoid infringement; discontinue the use and sale of infringing products; pay substantial damages; incur substantial costs indemnifying our customers; or defend litigation or administrative proceedings which may be costly whether we are successful or not, and which could result in a substantial diversion of our management resources and limit our exclusive rights to the technology we have developed. Furthermore, in addition to the DJ Action, we may initiate other claims or litigation against parties for infringement of our intellectual property rights or to establish the validity of our intellectual property rights. Litigation, either as plaintiff or defendant, could result in significant expense to us, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. Even if we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If the patents we own or license, or our other intellectual property rights, do not adequately protect our technologies, we may lose market share to our competitors and be unable to operate our business profitably. Our success depends significantly on our ability to protect our rights to the technologies used in our products, including Mobile Deposit. We rely on trademark, trade secret, copyright, and patent law, as well as a combination of non-disclosure, confidentiality, and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology and rights. However, these legal protections afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or maintain any competitive advantage. In addition, we cannot be assured that any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent. The Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) may deny or require significant narrowing of claims in our pending patent applications, and patents issued as a result of the pending patent applications, if any, may not provide us with significant commercial protection or may not be issued in a form that is advantageous to us. We could also incur substantial costs in proceedings before the PTO. Our issued and licensed patents and those that may be issued or licensed in the future may expire or may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing technologies related to ours. Additionally, upon expiration of our issued or licensed patents, we may lose some of our rights to exclude others from making, using, selling or importing products using the technology based on the expired patents. We also must rely on contractual provisions with the third parties that license technology to us and that obligate these third parties to protect our rights in the technology licensed to us. There is no guarantee that these third parties would be successful in attempting to protect our rights in any such licensed technology. There is no assurance that competitors will not be able to design around our patents or other intellectual property or any intellectual property or technology licensed to us. We also rely on unpatented proprietary technology. We cannot assure you that we can meaningfully protect all our rights in our unpatented proprietary technology or that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary technology or otherwise gain access to our unpatented proprietary technology. We seek to protect our know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology with confidentiality agreements and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, partners, and customers. However, such agreements may not be enforceable or may not provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure or other breaches of the agreements or in the event that our competitors discover or independently develop similar or identical designs or other proprietary information. 7 In addition, we rely on the use of registered and common law trademarks with respect to the brand names of some of our products. Common law trademarks provide less protection than registered trademarks. Loss of rights in our trademarks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. If we cannot adequately protect our intellectual property rights in these foreign countries, our competitors may be able to compete more effectively against us, which could adversely affect our competitive position, as well as our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We face competition from several companies that may have greater resources than we do, which could result in price reductions, reduced margins, or loss of market share. We compete against numerous companies in the mobile imaging software market. Competition in this market may increase as a result of a number of factors, such as the entrance of new or larger competitors or alternative technologies. These competitors may have greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources, larger client bases, and greater brand or name recognition. These competitors could, among other things: announce new products or technologies that have the potential to replace our existing product offerings; force us to charge lower prices; or adversely affect our relationships with current clients. We may be unable to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors and if we lose business to our competitors or are forced to lower our prices, our revenue, operating margins, and market share could decline. We must continue to engage in extensive research and development in order to remain competitive. Our ability to compete effectively with our mobile imaging software products depends upon our ability to meet changing market conditions and develop enhancements to our products on a timely basis in order to maintain our competitive advantage. The markets for products incorporating mobile imaging software technology and products are characterized by rapid advancements in technology and changes in user preferences. Our continued growth will ultimately depend upon our ability to develop additional technologies and attract strategic alliances for related or separate products. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing and marketing product enhancements and additional technologies, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of these products, or that our new products and product enhancements will adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace, will be of acceptable quality, or will achieve market acceptance. Defects or malfunctions in our products could hurt our reputation, sales and profitability. Our business and the level of customer acceptance of our products depend upon the continuous, effective, and reliable operation of our products. Our products are extremely complex and are continually being modified and improved, and as such may contain undetected defects or errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. To the extent that defects or errors cause our products to malfunction and our customers use of our products is interrupted, our reputation could suffer and our revenue could decline or be delayed while such defects are remedied. We may also be subject to liability for the defects and malfunctions of third party technology partners and others with whom our products and services are integrated. In addition, our products are typically intended for use in applications that are critical to a customers business. As a result, we believe that our customers and potential customers have a greater sensitivity to product defects than the market for software products in general. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, errors will not be found in new products or releases after commencement of commercial shipments, resulting in loss of revenues or delay in market acceptance, diversion of development resources, damage to our reputation, adverse litigation, or increased service and warranty costs, any of which would have a material adverse effect upon our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our historical order flow patterns, which we expect to continue, have caused forecasting difficulties for us. If we do not meet our forecasts or analysts forecasts for us, the price of our common stock may decline. Historically, a significant portion of our sales have resulted from shipments during the last few weeks of the quarter from orders received in the final month of the applicable quarter. We do, however, base our expense levels, in significant part, on our expectations of future revenue. As a result, we expect our expense levels to be relatively fixed in the short term. Any concentration of sales at the end of the quarter may limit our ability to plan or adjust operating expenses. Therefore, if anticipated shipments in any quarter do not occur or are delayed, expenditure levels could be disproportionately high as a percentage of sales, and our operating results for that quarter would be adversely affected. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not and will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. If our operating results for a quarter are below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, it could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. 8 Entry into new lines of business, and our offering of new products and services, resulting from our acquisitions may result in exposure to new risks. New lines of business, products or services could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. New products and services, or entrance into new markets, may require substantial time, resources and capital, and profitability targets may not be achieved. Entry into new markets entails inherent risks associated with our inexperience, which may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. There are material inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products, and services, especially when new markets are not fully developed or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product are not mature. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, regulatory orders, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful implementation of new products or services. Failure to manage these risks, or failure of any product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse economic conditions or reduced spending on information technology solutions may adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Unpredictable and unstable changes in economic conditions, including a recession, inflation, increased government intervention, or other changes, may adversely affect our general business strategy. In particular an economic downturn affecting small and medium sized businesses could significantly affect our business as many of our existing and target customers are in the small and medium sized business sector and these businesses are more likely to be significantly affected by economic downturns than larger, more established businesses. Additionally, these customers often have limited discretionary funds, which they may choose to spend on items other than our products and services, causing our revenue to decline. We may need to raise additional capital to fund continuing operations and an inability to raise the necessary capital or the inability to do so on acceptable terms could threaten the success of our business. We currently anticipate that our available capital resources and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet our expected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, such resources may not be sufficient to fund the long-term growth of our business. If we determine that it is necessary to raise additional funds, we may choose to do so through public or private equity or debt financings, a bank line of credit, strategic collaborations, licensing, or other arrangements. We cannot be sure that any additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. Furthermore, any additional equity or equity-related financing may be dilutive to our stockholders, new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of our shares of common stock, and debt or equity financing, if available, may subject us to restrictive covenants and significant interest costs. If we obtain funding through a strategic collaboration or licensing arrangement, we may be required to relinquish our rights to certain of our technologies, products or marketing territories. If we are unable to obtain the financing necessary to support our operations, we may be required to defer, reduce or eliminate certain planned expenditures or significantly curtail our operations. We expect to incur additional expenses related to the integration of ICAR Vision Systems, S.L. and A2iA Group II, S.A.S. We expect to incur additional expenses in connection with the integration of the business, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, and systems of ICAR Vision Systems, S.L., a company incorporated under the laws of Spain (ICAR), and A2iA Group II, S.A.S., a simplified joint stock company formed under the laws of France (A2iA). There are a large number of systems and functions that are being integrated into our larger organization, including, but not limited to, management information, accounting and finance, billing, payroll and benefits, and regulatory compliance. In addition, acquisitions of foreign entities, such as ICAR and A2iA, are particularly challenging because their prior practices may not meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) and/or accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred to integrate these businesses, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of all of the expected integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. During our fiscal year ended September 30, 2019, we incurred $3.1 million in expenses in connection with our strategic restructuring of A2iA in June 2019, which consists of employee severance obligations and other related costs. We may be unable to successfully integrate our business with the respective businesses of ICAR and A2iA and realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Our management will be required to continue to devote significant attention and resources to integrating our business practices and operations with that of ICAR and A2iA. In particular, the acquisitions of ICAR and A2iA involve the combination of two companies that previously operated as independent companies in different countries. Potential difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process include, but are not limited to, the following: 9 complexities associated with managing our business and the respective businesses of ICAR and A2iA following the completion of the acquisition, including the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks, and other assets of each of the companies in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies; integrating the workforces of the companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality customer service; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the acquisitions, including costs to integrate the companies that may exceed anticipated costs. Any of the potential difficulties listed above could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, and other constituencies or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. For example, subsequent to the acquisition of A2iA, we evaluated A2iAs operations and determined that the market for certain products was small and lacking growth opportunity, were not core to our strategy, and were not profitable for the Company. In order to streamline the organization and focus resources going forward, we undertook a strategic restructuring of A2iAs Paris operations in June 2019, which included, among other things, suspending the sale of certain A2iA products and offerings and a reduction in workforce. While we expect meaningful financial benefits from our strategic restructuring plan, we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated. Our actual financial and operating results following the acquisitions of ICAR and A2iA could differ materially from any expectations or guidance provided by us concerning our future financial and operating results. The combined company resulting from the acquisitions of ICAR and A2iA may not perform as we or the market expects. Expectations regarding each of ICARs and A2iAs impact on our financial and operating results are subject to numerous assumptions, including assumptions derived from our diligence efforts concerning the status of and prospects for the businesses of ICAR and A2iA, respectively, and assumptions relating to the near-term prospects for our industry generally and the market for the products of ICAR and A2iA in particular. Additional assumptions that we have made relate to numerous matters, including, without limitation, the following: projections of future revenues; anticipated financial performance of products and products currently in development; our expected capital structure after the acquisitions, including after the distribution of any earnout-shares that may (under certain circumstances) become payable to the former shareholders of ICAR; our ability to maintain, develop and deepen relationships with the respective customers of ICAR and A2iA; and other financial and strategic risks of the acquisitions. We cannot provide any assurances with respect to the accuracy of our assumptions, including our assumptions with respect to future revenues or revenue growth rates, if any, of ICAR or A2iA. Risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from currently anticipated results include, but are not limited to, risks relating to our ability to realize incremental revenues from the acquisitions in the amounts that we currently anticipate; risks relating to the willingness of customers and other partners of ICAR or A2iA to continue to conduct business with the combined company; and numerous risks and uncertainties that affect our industry generally and the markets for our products and those of each of ICAR and A2iA. Any failure to realize the financial benefits we currently anticipate from the acquisitions would have a material adverse impact on our future operating results and financial condition and could materially and adversely affect the trading price or trading volume of our common stock. Our corporate strategy and restructuring may not be successful . Subsequent to the acquisition of A2iA, we evaluated A2iAs operations and determined that the market for certain products was small and lacking growth opportunity, were not core to our strategy, and were not profitable for the Company. In order to streamline the organization and focus resources going forward, we undertook a strategic restructuring of A2iAs Paris operations in June 2019, which included, among other things, suspending the sale of certain A2iA products and offerings and a reduction in workforce. While we expect meaningful financial benefits from our strategic restructuring plan, we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were anticipated when we decided to undertake the restructuring. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these actions within the expected timeframe is subject to many estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions are subject to significant economic, competitive and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If these estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we experience delays or if other unforeseen events occur, our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. Our annual and quarterly results have fluctuated greatly in the past and will likely continue to do so, which may cause substantial fluctuations in our common stock price. Our annual and quarterly operating results have in the past and may in the future fluctuate significantly depending on factors including the timing of customer projects and purchase orders, new product announcements and releases by us and other companies, gain or loss of significant customers, price discounting of our products, the timing of expenditures, customer product delivery 10 requirements, the availability and cost of components or labor, and economic conditions, both generally and in the information technology market. Revenues related to our licenses for mobile imaging software products are required to be recognized upon satisfaction of all applicable revenue recognition criteria. The recognition of future revenues from these licenses is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the terms of our license agreements, the timing of implementation of our products by our channel partners and customers and the timing of any re-orders of additional licenses and/or license renewals by our channel partners and customers. Any unfavorable change in these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for a particular quarter or year, which may cause downward pressure on our common stock price. Historically, sales of licenses to our channel partners have comprised a significant part of our revenue. This is attributable to the timing of the purchase or renewal of licenses and does not represent a dependence on any single channel partner. If we were to lose a channel partner relationship, we do not believe such a loss would adversely affect our operations because either we or another channel partner could sell our products to the end-users that had purchased products from the channel partner we lost. However, in that case, we or another channel partner must establish a relationship with the end-users, which could take time to develop, if it develops at all. We expect quarterly and annual fluctuations to continue for the foreseeable future. These fluctuations may result in volatility in our results of operations, have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, or both. We face risks related to the storage of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information. Our products may not provide absolute security. We may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks and to respond to cyber incidents. Our products are designed to maintain the confidentiality and security of our customers and their end users confidential and proprietary information that is stored on our systems, which may include sensitive financial data and personally identifiable information about consumers. However, any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access to this data could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, time-consuming and expensive litigation, and other possible liabilities as well as negative publicity. We devote significant resources to addressing security vulnerabilities in our products, systems and processes, however our maintenance and regular upgrades of our products, systems and processes, which are designed to protect the security of our products and the confidentiality, integrity and availability of information belonging to us and our clients, may not provide absolute security. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly sophisticated, and generally are difficult to recognize and react to. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative or reactionary measures. A successful penetration or circumvention of the security of our products could cause serious negative consequences, including significant disruption of our operations, misappropriation of our confidential information or that of our clients, or damage to our systems or those of our clients and counterparties, and could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our clients, loss of confidence in our security measures, client dissatisfaction, significant litigation exposure, and harm to our reputation, all of which could have a material adverse effect on us. If an actual or perceived breach of security occurs, client perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and could result in the loss of clients. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third party experts and consultants. If we are unable to retain and recruit qualified personnel, or if any of our key executives or key employees discontinues his or her employment with us, it may have a material adverse effect on our business. We are highly dependent on the key members of our management team and other key technical personnel. If we were to lose the services of one or more of our key personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, it could materially and adversely affect our business. Furthermore, recruiting and retaining qualified highly skilled engineers involved in the ongoing development required to refine our technologies and introduce future products is critical to our success. We may be unable to attract, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition within the high technology industry. We do not have any employment agreements providing for a specific term of employment with any member of our senior management. We do not maintain key man insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. We have granted and plan to grant restricted stock units or other forms of equity awards as a method of attracting and retaining employees, motivating performance and aligning the interests of employees with those of our stockholders. As of September 30, 2019, we had 807,144 shares of common stock available for issuance pursuant to future grants of equity awards under our existing equity compensation plans, which may limit our ability to provide equity incentive awards to existing and future employees. If we are unable to adopt, implement and maintain equity compensation arrangements that provide sufficient incentives, we may be unable to retain our existing employees and attract additional qualified candidates. If we are unable to retain our existing employees, including qualified technical personnel, and attract additional qualified candidates, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 11 Legislation and governmental regulations enacted in the U.S. and other countries that apply to us or to our customers may require us to change our current products and services and/or result in additional expenses, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulations including changes in legislation and governmental regulations impacting financial institutions, insurance companies, and mobile device companies, affect how our business is conducted. Globally, legislation and governmental regulations also influence our current and prospective customers activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Compliance with these laws and regulations may be onerous and expensive, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance. Any such increase in costs as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products in one or more regions, cause us to change or limit our business practices or affect our financial condition and operating results. Due to our operations in non-U.S. markets, we are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We generate revenue in markets outside of the U.S. The risks inherent in global operations include: lack of familiarity with, and unexpected changes in, foreign laws and legal standards, including employment laws and privacy laws, which may vary widely across the countries in which we sell our products; increased expense to comply with U.S. laws that apply to foreign corporations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA); compliance with, and potentially adverse tax consequences of, foreign tax regimes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency exchange controls, price controls, and limitations on repatriation of earnings; local economic conditions; increased expense related to localization of products and development of foreign language marketing and sales materials; longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable in foreign countries; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictive employment regulations; difficulties and increased expense in implementing corporate policies and controls; international intellectual property laws, which may be more restrictive or may offer lower levels of protection than U.S. law; compliance with differing and changing local laws and regulations in multiple international locations, including regional data privacy laws, as well as compliance with U.S. laws and regulations where applicable in these international locations; and limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies. If we are unable to successfully manage these and other risks associated with managing and expanding our international business, the risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Further, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. Due to the additional uncertainties and risks of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, international acquisitions tend to entail risks and require additional oversight and management attention that are typically not attendant to acquisitions made within the U.S. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. Our international operations may increase our exposure to potential liability under anti-corruption, trade protection, tax, and other laws and regulations. The FCPA and other anti-corruption laws and regulations (Anti-Corruption Laws) prohibit corrupt payments by our employees, vendors, or agents. From time to time, we may receive inquiries from authorities in the U.S. and elsewhere about our business activities outside of the U.S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption Laws. While we have implemented policies, training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our policies. Our acquisitions of ID Checker, ICAR, and A2iA may significantly increase our exposure to potential liability under Anti-Corruption Laws. ID Checker, ICAR, and A2iA were not historically subject to the FCPA, Sarbanes-Oxley, or other laws, to which we are subject, and we may become subject to liability if in the past, ID Checkers, ICARs, and A2iAs operations did not comply with such laws. 12 Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. Operations outside of the U.S. may be affected by changes in trade protection laws, policies and measures, and other regulatory requirements affecting trade and investment. The European Union (EU) and the U.S. entered into a new framework (known as the Privacy Shield) in July 2016 to provide a mechanism for companies to transfer data from EU member states to the U.S. The Privacy Shield and other data transfer mechanisms are subject to legal challenge, which generates uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers to the U.S. or interruption of such transfers. In the event a court blocks transfers to or from a particular jurisdiction on the basis that transfer mechanisms are not legally adequate, this could cause operational interruptions, liabilities and reputational harm. These and other requirements could increase the cost of compliance for us and our customers, restrict our and our customers ability to store and process data, negatively impact our ability to offer our solutions in certain locations and limit our customers ability to deploy our solutions globally. These consequences may be more significant in countries with legislation that requires data to remain localized in country, as this could require us or our customers to establish data storage in other jurisdictions or apply local operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. If we fail to comply with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to significant fines, penalties or liabilities for noncompliance, thereby harming our business. For example, in 2016, the EU adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which establishes new requirements regarding the handling of personal data and which became effective in May 2018. Non-compliance with the GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. Due to our international operations, we are subject to certain foreign tax regulations. Such regulations may not be clear, not consistently applied, and subject to sudden change, particularly with regard to international transfer pricing. Our earnings could be reduced by the uncertain and changing nature of such tax regulations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business is generally conducted in U.S. dollars. However, we earn revenues, pay expenses, own assets and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate during each reporting period, as well as assets and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the end of each reporting period. The costs of operating in The Netherlands, Spain, France, and other European markets are subject to the effects of exchange fluctuations of the Euro and British pound sterling against the U.S. dollar. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies will affect our net revenues, net income (loss), and the value of balance sheet items denoted in foreign currencies, and can adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with changing regulations concerning corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Our business is subject to laws, rules, regulations, and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act), Sarbanes-Oxley, and various other new regulations promulgated by the SEC and rules promulgated by the national securities exchanges. The Dodd-Frank Act, enacted in July 2010, expands federal regulation of corporate governance matters and imposes requirements on publicly-held companies, including us, to, among other things, provide stockholders with a periodic advisory vote on executive compensation and also adds compensation committee reforms and enhanced pay-for-performance disclosures. While some provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act were effective upon enactment, and others have been implemented upon the SECs adoption of related rules and regulations, the Dodd-Frank Act is not yet fully implemented and the scope and timing of the adoption of additional rules and regulations thereunder is uncertain and accordingly, the cost of compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act is also uncertain. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley specifically requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure of