Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs involving risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and other factors set forth in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on March 8, 2021 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our IPO and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in the IPO, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A common stock on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of our Class A common stock if shares of preferred stock are issued with rights senior to those afforded our Class A common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and May adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, shares of Class A common stock and/or warrants; and may not result in adjustment to the exercise price of our warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 55 Table of Contents limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. Recent Developments Initial Extension of Time to Complete an Initial Business Combination Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the trust agreement entered into between us and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, in the event we had not consummated an initial business combination within 15 months from the closing of our IPO, or February 28, 2023, our board of directors is permitted to extend the period of time to consummate an initial business combination by two additional three month periods, provided, in each case, that the sponsor has deposited into the trust account $1,725,000 in exchange for private placement warrants, at a rate of $1.50 per private placement warrant, on the same terms as the private placement warrants issued in connection with the IPO. On February 28, 2023, we extended the period we have to consummate our initial business combination by a period of three months from February 28, 2023 to May 28, 2023 (the Initial Extension). To effect the Initial Extension, we issued to the sponsor 1,150,000 private placement warrants (the Extension Private Placement Warrants), at a rate of $1.50 per private placement warrant, on the same terms as the private placement warrants issued to the sponsor in connection with the closing of the IPO, in exchange for the sponsors deposit of $1,725,000, representing $0.10 per share of Class A common stock held by public stockholders, into the trust account. S tockholders were not entitled to vote on or redeem their shares in connection with the Initial Extension. Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from March 8, 2021 (inception) through December 31, 2022 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for our IPO, and the search for a target company for an initial business combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account established at the time of the IPO to hold certain proceeds from the IPO and the concurrent sale of the private placement warrants. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the period ended December 31, 2022, we had net income of $158,386, which consists of investment income held in Trust Account of $2,536,113, offset by the operating costs of $1,922,290 and the provision for income taxes of $455,437. For the period from March 8, 2021 (inception) through December 31, 2021, we had a net loss of $427,312, which consists of formation and operating costs of $428,515 and is offset by investment income held in Trust Account of $1,203. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Going Concern Our liquidity needs were satisfied prior to the completion of our IPO through $18,750 paid by our sponsor, Everest Consolidator Sponsor, LLC, (after giving effect to the repurchase by us of 1,437,500 shares of our Class B common stock from our sponsor for an aggregate purchase price of $6,250) to cover certain of our offering and formation costs in exchange for the issuance of the founder shares to our sponsor. We generated net proceeds of $ 177,606,386 from the (i) the sale of the units in the IPO, after deducting offering expenses, underwriting commissions, but excluding deferred underwriting commissions, and (ii) the sale of the private placement warrants. Of this amount, $175,950,000 will be held in the trust account, which includes $6,037,500 of deferred underwriting commissions. The 56 Table of Contents proceeds held in the trust account are invested only in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in mutual funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations. For the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $1,428,273. The net income of $158,386 was offset by the investment income, held in Trust Account $2,536,113, and changes in operating assets and liabilities, which provided $949,454 of cash. As of December 31, 2022, we had cash of $236,151 held outside of the trust account and marketable securities held in the trust account of $178,111,451 (including $2,536,113 of interest income) consisting of securities held in a mutual fund that invests in U.S. Treasury securities with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the trust account may be used by us to pay income and franchise taxes. Through December 31, 2022, we withdrew $375,865 of interest earned on the trust account to pay $111,220 of federal income taxes and $264,645 of Delaware franchise taxes. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less taxes payable and deferred underwriting commissions), to complete our initial business combination. We may withdraw interest income (if any) to pay franchise and income taxes. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the trust account. We expect the interest income earned on the amount in the trust account (if any) will be sufficient to pay our taxes. To the extent that our equity or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. The $236,151 held outside of the Trust Account as of December 31, 2022, and a working capital deficit of $755,241 as of December 31, 2022, may not be sufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of the financial statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K, assuming that a Business Combination is not consummated during that time. The Company believes that the proceeds raised in the initial public offering and the funds potentially available from loans from the sponsor or any of their affiliates will be sufficient to allow the Company to meet the expenditures required for operating its business. However, if the estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, the Company may have insufficient funds available to operate its business prior to the initial Business Combination. Moreover, the Company may need to obtain additional financing either to complete the Business Combination or because the Company becomes obligated to redeem a significant number of public shares upon completion of the Business Combination, in which case the Company may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Giving effect to the Initial Extension, we have 18 months from the closing of the IPO, or May 28, 2023 (absent any further extensions of such period by the sponsor, pursuant to the terms described above) to consummate the initial Business Combination. It is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate the proposed Business Combination by this date. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date, then, unless that time is further extended (as provided above, or pursuant to a stockholder vote), there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. We may need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from its sponsor, stockholders, officers, directors, or third parties. Our officers, directors and sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds, from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet our working capital needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, it may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Management has determined that our liquidity condition, potential mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, assuming a Business Combination is not consummated before May 28, 2023. The financial statements contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K do not include any 57 Table of Contents adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Registration Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) are entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into prior to the closing of the Initial Public Offering. The holders of these securities may at any time, and from time to time, request in writing that the Company register the resale of any or all of these securities on Form S-3 or any similar short form registration statement that may be available at such time; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to effect such request through an underwritten offering. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial business combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Deferred Underwriting Commissions The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per unit, or $6,037,500 in the aggregate. Subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement, (i) the deferred fee will be placed in our trust account and released to the underwriters only upon the completion of our initial business combination and (ii) the deferred fee will be waived by the underwriters in the event that we do not complete an initial business combination. Administrative Services Agreement We have entered into an Administrative Services Agreement pursuant to which the Company pays an affiliate of the sponsor a total of $10,000 per month for office space, secretarial and administrative services to the company. We began incurring these fees on November 29, 2021 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the initial business combination or the Companys liquidation. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we expensed $122,425 for the services provided through the Administrative Services Agreement that was Due to the Sponsor. As of December 31, 2022, the Companys had no unpaid amounts related to the Administrative Services Agreement. Conditional Guarantee Agreement In connection with the Initial Extension and our sponsors deposit of the extension funds into the trust account, we entered into a Conditional Guaranty Agreement (the Conditional Guaranty Agreement) in favor of the Noteholder (defined below) in respect of a promissory note with an aggregate original principal amount of $1,725,000 (the Note) issued and sold by the sponsor to a third-party investor (the Noteholder). Pursuant to the Conditional Guaranty Agreement, we have agreed, subject to our consummation of an initial business combination prior to the Termination Date (as defined in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation), to guarantee the payment when due of all principal and accrued interest owed by the sponsor under the Note. Our obligations under the Conditional Guaranty Agreement will terminate upon the earliest to occur of (i) the payment in full or discharge and termination of the Note, (ii) the failure to consummate an initial business combination prior to the Termination Date or (iii) immediately prior to the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. The Noteholder has waived any right, title, interest and claim of any kind in or to any monies in the trust account. Due Diligence Agreement We have entered into an agreement relating to due diligence and other professional services in connection with our search for potential business combination targets. Our payment obligations under this arrangement are not contingent upon, or deferrable until, the completion of an initial business combination. As of December 31, 2022, we had not incurred any fees under this arrangement. We expect to incur aggregate fees of between approximately $450,000 to 600,000 under this agreement, which will be expensed as incurred. 58 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Our management believes that the estimates, judgment and assumptions used are reasonable based upon information available at the time they are made. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption The Company accounts for its common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of common stock subject to mandatory redemption, if any, is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. The Companys common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the Companys control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the Companys balance sheet. The Class A common stock subject to possible redemption reflected on the balance sheet as December 31, 2022 are reconciled in the following table: Gross proceeds $ 172,500,000 Less: Class A common stock issuance costs (10,100,667) Fair value of Public Warrants at issuance (4,672,162) Plus: Re-measurement of carrying value to redemption value 18,222,829 Accretion of trust earnings 1,717,994 Class A common stock subject to possible redemption $ 177,667,994 The Class A common stock subject to possible redemption reflected on the balance sheet as December 31, 2021 are reconciled in the following table: Gross proceeds $ 172,500,000 Less: Class A common stock issuance costs (10,100,667) Fair value of Public Warrants at issuance (4,672,162) Plus: Re-measurement of carrying value to redemption value 18,222,829 Class A common stock subject to possible redemption . $ 175,950,000 Net income (loss) Per Share of Common Stock We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. Net income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement in the calculation of diluted income per share, because the exercise of the warrants are contingent upon the occurrence of future events and the inclusion of such warrants would be anti- dilutive. Accretion associated with the redeemable Class A common stock is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. 59 Table of Contents Income Taxes Income taxes are recorded in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740), which provides for deferred taxes using an asset and liability approach. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities and net operating and capital loss carryforwards using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are provided, if based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The valuation allowance is reduced when it is determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will be realized. The Company accounts for uncertain tax positions in accordance with the provisions of ASC 740. When uncertain tax positions exist, the Company recognizes the tax benefit of tax positions to the extent that the benefit would more likely than not be realized assuming examination by the taxing authority. The determination as to whether the tax benefit will more likely than not be realized is based upon the technical merits of the tax position as well as consideration of the available facts and circumstances. The Company recognizes any interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense. There were no unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. No amounts were accrued for the payment of interest and penalties as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. The Company is currently not aware of any issues that could result in significant payments, accruals or material deviation from its position. Recent accounting standards In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2024 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. Management is currently evaluating the new guidance but does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements. See Note 2 to the audited financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information regarding these and our other significant accounting policies. Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 Under the JOBS Act, an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different transition dates for public and private companies until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We meet the definition of an emerging growth company and have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (x) are no longer an emerging growth company, or (y) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements and the reported results of operations contained therein may not be directly comparable to those of other public companies.