Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations in conjunction with our unaudited condensed financial statements for the period ended September 30, 2023, and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on March 30, 2023 (the 2022 Form 10-K). This discussion and analysis and other parts of this filing contain forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs, plans and expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Our actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in the 2022 Form 10-K, under Part II, Item IA. "Risk Factors, and under the heading Forward-Looking Statements elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on March 8, 2021 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our IPO and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. The Companys sponsor is Everest Consolidator Sponsor, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Sponsor). The issuance of additional shares of our common stock in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in the IPO, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A common stock on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of shares of our Class A common stock if shares of preferred stock are issued with rights senior to those afforded our Class A common stock; could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the share ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; and May adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, shares of Class A common stock and/or warrants; and may not result in adjustment to the exercise price of our warrants Similarly, if we issue debt or otherwise incur significant debt, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; 28 Table of Contents our inability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our Class A common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. First and Second Extensions of the Period to Complete the Initial Business Combination On February 28, 2023, in accordance with our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the terms of the trust agreement entered into between us and Equiniti Trust, LLC (f/k/a American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC), dated as of November 23, 2021 (the Trust Agreement), we initially extended the period of time in which we must consummate an initial business combination by a period of three months, from February 28, 2023 to May 28, 2023 (the Initial Extension). In connection with the Initial Extension, our Sponsor deposited an aggregate of $1,725,000 into the Trust Account, representing $0.10 per public share, in exchange for the our issuance of to the Sponsor of 1,150,000 Private Placement Warrants, at a rate of $1.50 per private placement warrant, with the same terms as the Private Placement Warrants issued in connection with the closing of our initial public offering (IPO). The Initial Extension was the first of two three-month extensions permitted under our governing documents. On May 26, 2023, we further extended the period we had to consummate an initial business combination by a period of three months, or until August 28, 2023 (the Second Extension). In connection with the Second Extension, the Sponsor deposited an aggregate of $1,725,000 into the Trust Account, representing $0.10 per public share, in exchange for our issuance of to the Sponsor of 1,150,000 Private Placement Warrants, at a rate of $1.50 per private placement warrant, with the same terms as the Private Placement Warrants issued in connection with the closing of the IPO. The Second Extension was the second of two three-month extensions permitted under our governing documents. The Companys stockholders were not entitled to vote on or redeem their shares in connection with the Initial Extension or the Second Extension. In connection with the Sponsors financing of the Initial Extension and the Second Extension, the Sponsor entered into two promissory notes in the aggregate amount of $3,450,000 ($1,725,000 for each extension) at an interest rate of 16% per annum (each, an Extension Note and together, the Extension Notes) with Everest Consolidator A Series of Master Fund I LLC (the Noteholder), a third-party investor. In connection with the Sponsors issuance of the Extension Notes, the Company entered into a Conditional Guaranty Agreements in favor of the Noteholder in respect of each Notes. See Contractual Obligations and Commitments, below. Proposed Business Combination On May 19, 2023, the Company entered into a business combination agreement with Unifund Financial Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (New PubCo or Unifund), Unifund Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of New PubCo (Merger Sub), Unifund Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Holdings), Credit Card Receivables Fund Incorporated, an Ohio corporation (CCRF), USV, LLC, an Ohio limited liability company (USV and together with Holdings and CCRF, the Target Companies), and, solely for limited purposes set forth therein, the Sponsor (the Business Combination Agreement and the proposed business combination contemplated thereby, the Unifund Business Combination). The Target Company group specializes in the acquisition and servicing of consumer debt receivables and offers consumer data analytics and tailored recovery solutions for major banks, financial institutions and other creditors across the United States. The Business Combination Agreement has been approved by the boards of directors or board of managers, as applicable, of each of the Company, the Target Companies and New PubCo. In connection with the Unifund Business Combination, certain related agreements have been, or will be entered into on or prior to the closing of the Unifund Business Combination, including the New PubCo Registration Rights and Lock- 29 Table of Contents up Agreement, the Sponsor Support Agreement and the Holder Support Agreement (each as defined and described in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 22, 2023). The consummation of the proposed Unifund Business Combination is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Business Combination Agreement. The closing of the proposed Unifund Business Combination is expected to occur no later than three business days following the satisfaction or waiver of all of the closing conditions, or at such other time date and place as the Company and the Target Companies may mutually agree in writing. The Business Combination Agreement may be terminated under certain customary and limited circumstances at any time prior to the consummation thereof and the Company can provide no assurance that the Business Combination will be consummated at the expected time, or at all. For a description of the terms of the Business Combination Agreement and related agreements, refer to Note 1. Description of Organization and Business Operations to the unaudited financial statements contained elsewhere in this Quarter Report on Form 10-Q, to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 22, 2023, and to the prospectus/proxy statement included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-273362) initially filed with the SEC on July 21, 2023 by the Company and the NewPubco in relation to the proposed Unifund Business Combination (such registration statement, as amended or supplemented, the Registration Statement). This Quarterly Report does not give effect to the proposed Unifund Business Combination and does not contain the risks associated with the proposed Unifund Business Combination. Such risks and effects relating to the proposed Unifund Business Combination are included in the Registration Statement. Recent Developments Special Meeting of Stockholders On August 24, 2023, we convened a special meeting of stockholders (the Special Meeting) at which our stockholders approved, among other items, (i) a proposal to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to provide our board of directors with the right to extend (the Monthly Extensions) the date by which we have to consummate a business combination (the Combination Period) up to an additional six (6) times for one (1) month each time, from August 28, 2023 to February 28, 2024 (as extended, the Extended Date) (the Extension Amendment Proposal); (ii) a proposal to approve the adoption of an amendment (the Trust Amendment) to the Trust Agreement to allow us to extend the Combination Period up to an additional six (6) times for one (1) month each time from August 28, 2023 to February 28, 2024, the Extended Date, by depositing into the Trust Account, for each one-month extension, the lesser of (a) $280,000 and (b) $0.035 per public share then outstanding (the Trust Amendment Proposal); and (iii) a proposal to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to eliminate the limitation that the Company shall not redeem public shares to the extent that such redemption would cause our net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 (the Redemption Limitation) to allow us to redeem public shares irrespective of whether such redemption would exceed the Redemption Limitation (the Redemption Limitation Amendment Proposal and together with Extension Amendment Proposal and the Trust Amendment Proposal, the Charter Amendment Proposals). In connection with the Charter Amendment Proposals, holders of our public shares were given the opportunity to redeem their public shares for a pro rata share of the funds on deposit in the Trust Account as of two business days prior to such approval, including any interest earned on the trust account deposits (net of taxes payable), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares. A total of 63 stockholders elected to redeem an aggregate of 3,825,869 shares of Class A Common Stock at a per share redemption price of $10.73, totaling $41,057,655. Following the Special Meeting and associated redemptions, we had approximately $144.9 million remaining in the Trust Account. As of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the Sponsor has deposited an aggregate of $1,120,000 into the Trust Account in connection with the first, second, third and fourth one-month extensions of the Combination Period pursuant to the Charter Amendment Proposals. The Combination Period currently expires on December 28, 2023. The Company may extend the Combination Period for up to two additional one-month periods to February 28, 2024. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations and Known Trends or Future Events We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from March 8, 2021 (inception) through September 30, 2023 were organizational activities, the activities necessary for our IPO, and those to complete the initial business combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account established at the time of the IPO to hold certain proceeds from the IPO and the concurrent sale of the private placement warrants. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as the transaction costs in relation to the proposed Unifund Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, we had a net loss of $1,594,960 which consists of investment income held in the trust account of $2,225,997, general and administrative expenses of $3,187,663, Conditional Guarantee expense of $139,134, interest expense of $37,200, and the provision for income taxes of $456,960. Of the $3,187,663 of general and administrative expenses, approximately $2.4 million relate to business combination costs. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we had a net loss of $9,215,480, which consists of investment income held in the trust account of $6,294,454, general and administrative expenses of $10,400,770, Conditional Guarantee expense of $3,706,339, interest expense of $112,200 and the provision for income taxes of $1,290,625. Of the $10,400,770 of general and administrative expenses, approximately $8.4 million relate to business combination costs. For the three months ended September 30, 2022, we had net income of $222,640, which consists of general and administrative expenses of $379,100, which was offset by investment income of $601,740. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we had a net loss of $559,203, which consists of general and administrative expenses of $1,301,314 and income tax expense of $109,576 which were offset by investment income of $851,687. Liquidity, Capital Resources and Going Concern Our liquidity needs were satisfied prior to the completion of our IPO through $18,750 paid by our Sponsor (after giving effect to the repurchase by us of 1,437,500 shares of our Class B common stock from our sponsor for an aggregate purchase price of $6,250) to cover certain of our offering and formation costs in exchange for the issuance of the founder shares to our sponsor. We generated net proceeds of $177,606,386 from (i) the sale of the units in the IPO, after deducting offering expenses, underwriting commissions, but excluding deferred underwriting commissions, and (ii) the sale of the private placement warrants. Of this amount, $175,950,000 are held in the trust account, which includes $6,037,500 of deferred underwriting commissions. The proceeds held in the trust account are invested only in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in mutual funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations. On May 7, 2023, the Company issued an unsecured promissory note (the Promissory Note) in the principal amount of up to $1,500,000 to the Sponsor. The Promissory Note obligates the Company to repay the total amount drawn (which will be in the form of a non-convertible working capital loan), together with accrued interest at the rate of 6% on the total amount drawn (the Interest), provided that the total repayment amount shall not exceed $1,500,000 plus the applicable Interest. On December 7, 2023, the Company amended and restated the Promissory Note (the Amended Promissory Note) to, among other things (i) increase the principal amount that may be drawn upon by the Company to up to $3,500,000, (ii) amend the rate at which interest accrues on outstanding principal amounts to (a) 6.0% for any principal amount drawn down up to $1,500,00 and (b) 18.0% for any principal amount drawn down greater than $1,500,000, and (iii) amend the maturity date to the earlier of (a) the closing of the Business Combination or (b) February 28, 2024. Through September 30, 2023, the Company received an aggregate of $1,870,000 in proceeds from the Sponsor under the Amended Promissory Note. On May 8, 2023, the Company received a letter providing notice from the representative of the underwriters in the Companys IPO, waiving any entitlement to their portion of the $6,037,500 deferred underwriting fee that accrued from their participation as the underwriters of the IPO as they have not been involved in the Business Combination process. 31 Table of Contents For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, cash used in operating activities was $2,809,565, which is related primarily to the payments of transaction costs. In connection with the shareholder vote to approve the Extension Amendment Proposal at the Special Meeting on August 24, 2023, the holders of 3,825,869 shares of Class A common stock exercised their right to redeem such shares at a per share redemption price of approximately $10.73, and an aggregate of $41,057,655 was withdrawn from the trust account. As of September 30, 2023, we had cash of $322,367 held outside of the trust account (reserved for tax payments) and marketable securities held in the trust account of $145,772,470 (which includes $4,010,000 of funds deposited by the Sponsor in connection with the Initial and Second Extensions and the first and second one-month extensions pursuant to the Charter Amendment Proposals, $8,831,770 of interest income, and excludes the $41,057,655 which was withdrawn from the Trust as part of the Extension Amendment Proposal at the Special Meeting on August 24 ,2023), consisting of securities held in a mutual fund that invests in U.S. Treasury securities with a maturity of 180 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the trust account may be used by us to pay income and franchise taxes. Through September 30, 2023, we withdrew $1,961,645 of interest earned on the trust account, inclusive of the of $1,075,252 withdrawn in August 2023, discussed below, to pay income taxes and Delaware franchise taxes. In August 2023, the Company withdrew $1,075,252 of interest and dividend income earned in the Trust Account for payment of the Companys estimated franchise and income tax liabilities. As of September 30, 2023 none of the $1,075,252 had been remitted to satisfy franchise and income tax liabilities. The amount withdrawn was restricted for payment of such tax liabilities under the Companys certificate incorporation and the terms of the Trust Agreement. Through September 30, 2023, the Company mistakenly used $752,885 of these funds for the payments of general operating expenses counter to the terms of the Trust Agreement. As of September 30, 2023, these funds (totaling $752,885) remain payable for franchise and income tax purposes. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the trust account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the trust account (less taxes payable and deferred underwriting commissions, as applicable), to complete our initial business combination. We may withdraw interest income (if any) to pay franchise and income taxes. Our annual income tax obligations will depend on the amount of interest and other income earned on the amounts held in the trust account. We expect the interest income earned on the amount in the trust account (if any) will be sufficient to pay our taxes. To the extent that our equity or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our initial business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the trust account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. The $322,367 held outside of the trust account (reserved for tax payments) as of September 30, 2023, and a working capital deficit, excluding franchise and income taxes, of $14,273,909 as of September 30, 2023, will not be sufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of the condensed financial statements contained elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of the Companys officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan the Company funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). If the Company completes a Business Combination, the Company would repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to the Company. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, the Company may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination or, at the lenders discretion, up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post Business Combination entity at a price of $1.50 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. During the nine-month period ended September 30, 2023, the Company received an aggregate of $1,870,000 in the form of a working capital loan from its Sponsor. The Company believes that the proceeds raised in the IPO, and the funds potentially available from loans from the Sponsor or any of their affiliates will be sufficient to allow the Company to meet the expenditures required for operating its business. However, if the estimate of the costs to complete the proposed Business Combination with Unifund is less than the actual amount necessary to do so, the Company may have insufficient funds available to operate its business prior to the initial Business Combination. Moreover, the Company may need to obtain additional financing either to complete the Business Combination or because the Company becomes obligated to redeem a significant number of public shares upon completion of the Business Combination, in which case the Company may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. 32 Table of Contents Giving effect to the Charter Amendment Proposals and subject to the Company making the required trust account deposits, we have until February 28, 2024 to complete an initial business combination (the Termination Date). It is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate the proposed business combination by the Termination Date. If we are unable to consummate an initial business combination by the Termination Date we will, as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the outstanding shares of Class A common stock, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including any interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account, less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses and net of interest that may be used by us to pay our franchise and income taxes payable, divided by the number of then outstanding shares of Class A common stock, which redemption will completely extinguish our public stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law and as further described herein, and then seek to dissolve and liquidate. Management has determined that the liquidity condition, potential mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raises substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. These condensed financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Conditional Guarantees In connection with the Initial Extension and the Second Extension, the Company entered into a Conditional Guaranty Agreement in favor of the Noteholder in respect of each Extension Note. Pursuant to each Conditional Guaranty Agreement, the Company has agreed, subject to the Companys consummation of an Initial Business Combination prior to the Termination Date), to guarantee the payment by the Sponsor to the Noteholder when due of all principal and accrued interest owed to the Noteholder under the respective Extension Note. The Companys obligations under each Conditional Guaranty Agreement will terminate upon the earliest to occur of (i) the payment in full or discharge and termination of the Extension Note, (ii) the failure to consummate an initial business combination prior to the Termination Date or (iii) immediately prior to the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. The Noteholder has waived any right, title, interest and claim of any kind as it relates to the Trust Account. The Company accounts for the Conditional Guarantees in accordance with the guidance in ASC 460, Guarantees (ASC 460) as the Conditional Guarantees contingently require the Company to make payments to a guaranteed party. As required by ASC 460, at the inception, the Company assessed the need to recognize a liability for the contingent component of the guarantee (the obligation to make future payments upon the occurrence of certain events) in accordance with the guidance in ASC 450, Contingencies (ASC 450). Under ASC 450, a Company is required to record a liability if it is probable that the Company would have to make a payment under the guarantee, and the payment can be reasonably estimated. See Note 4 for further detail as it relates to the Conditional Guarantees. As of September 30, 2023, the Company deemed that the payment of the Extension Notes on behalf of the Sponsor was probable and recorded a liability of $3,706,339, including $3,450,000 of principal and $256,339 of accrued interest related to the Extension Notes. Registration Rights The holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) are entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement entered into prior to the closing of the IPO. The holders of these securities may at any time, and from time to time, request in writing that the Company register the resale of any or all of these securities on Form S-3 or any similar short form registration statement that may be available at such time; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to effect such request through an underwritten offering. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial business combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. 33 Table of Contents Working Capital Loan Promissory Note See Liquidity, Capital Resources and Going Concern, above for a description of the Promissory Note issued by the Company in connection with amounts received in the form of working capital loans during the three months ended September 30, 2023. The Company recorded the interest expense of $37,200 and $112,200 on the Amended Promissory Note for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2023, respectively. Administrative Services Agreement We have entered into an Administrative Services Agreement pursuant to which the Company has agreed to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a total of $10,000 per month, until the earlier of the completion of the initial Business Combination and the liquidation of the trust assets, for office space, secretarial and administrative services. Upon completion of the initial Business Combination or liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. For the for the three month and nine month periods ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, the Company expensed $30,000 and $90,000, respectively, for the services provided through the Administrative Services Agreement. As of September 30, 2023, the balance due under the agreement was $60,000 and was included in Due to related party. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no amounts due to the Sponsor related to the Administrative Services Agreement. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The Company prepares its financial statements and accompanying notes in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which require management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect reported amounts. Estimations are considered critical accounting estimates based on, among other things, its impact on the portrayal of the Companys financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity, as well as the degree of difficulty, subjectivity, and complexity in its deployment. Critical accounting estimates address accounting matters that are inherently uncertain due to unknown future resolution of such matters. Management routinely discusses the development, selection, and disclosure of each critical accounting estimates. There have been no significant changes to the Companys estimates and assumptions during the three and nine-months ended September 30, 2023 other than as described in Guarantee below. Reference should be made to the financial statements and related notes included in the 2022 Form 10-K for a full description of other significant accounting policies. Guarantee The Company accounts for the Conditional Guarantees in accordance with the guidance in ASC 460, Guarantees (ASC 460) as the Conditional Guarantees contingently require the Company to make payments to a guaranteed party. As required by ASC 460, at the inception, the Company assessed the need to recognize a liability for the contingent component of the guarantee (the obligation to make future payments upon the occurrence of certain events) in accordance with the guidance in ASC 450, Contingencies (ASC 450). Under ASC 450, a Company is required to record a liability if it is probable that the Company would have to make a payment under the guarantee, and the payment can be reasonably estimated. See Note 4 for further detail as it relates to the Conditional Guarantees. As of September 30, 2023, the Company deemed that the payment of the Extension Notes on behalf of the Sponsor was probable and recorded a liability of $3,706,339, including $3,450,000 of principal and $256,339 of accrued interest related to the Extension Notes. Recent accounting standards In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2024 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with 34 Table of Contents early adoption permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. Management is currently evaluating the new guidance but does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements. Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 Under the JOBS Act, an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards that have different transition dates for public and private companies until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We meet the definition of an emerging growth company and have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (x) are no longer an emerging growth company, or (y) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our condensed financial statements and the reported results of operations contained therein may not be directly comparable to those of other public companies.