Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Chavant Capital Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on March 19, 2021 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenue to date. Based on our business activities, the Company is a shell company as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) because we have no operations and nominal assets consisting almost entirely of cash. On July 22, 2021, we consummated our IPO of 8,000,000 units. Each unit consists of one ordinary share and three-fourths of one redeemable warrant. Each whole warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share. The units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds, before expenses, of $80,000,000. Prior to the consummation of the IPO, on April 7, 2021, the Company issued 2,875,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 (the Founder Shares), for which the Sponsor paid $25,000. On July 19, 2021, the Company reduced the offering size of the IPO and 575,000 Founder Shares were surrendered to the Company for cancellation for no consideration, resulting in 2,300,000 Founder Shares outstanding. On September 5, 2021, the underwriters over-allotment option expired unexercised, resulting in the forfeiture of an additional 300,000 Founder Shares. As a result, a total of 2,000,000 Founder Shares remains outstanding and represents 20% of the Companys issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, pursuant to the Sponsor Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated July 19, 2021, by and between the Company and the Sponsor, and the Representative Designees Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated July 19, 2021, by and between the Company and the underwriters, the Company completed the private sale of 3,400,000 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants) to the Sponsor and the underwriters at a purchase price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating gross proceeds to the Company of $3,400,000 (the Private Placement). The Private Placement Warrants are identical to the Warrants included as part of the Units sold in the IPO, except that the Private Placement Warrants, so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, (i) are not redeemable by the Company, (ii) may not (including the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants), subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold until 30 days after the completion of the Companys initial Business Combination, (iii) may be exercised on a cashless basis and (iv) are entitled to registration rights. No underwriting discounts or commissions were paid with respect to such sale. The issuance of the Private Placement Warrants was made pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 17 Table of Contents After deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and incurred offering costs, a total of $80,000,000 of the proceeds from the IPO and the proceeds of the sale of the Private Placement Warrants was placed in the Trust Account at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee. Except with respect to interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account that may be released to the Company to pay its taxes and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses, the funds held in the Trust Account will not be released from the Trust Account until the earliest of (i) the completion of the Companys initial Business Combination, (ii) the redemption of any of the ordinary shares included in the Units sold in the IPO (the public shares) properly submitted in connection with a shareholder vote to amend the Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (A) to modify the substance or timing of the Companys obligation to redeem 100% of the public shares if it does not complete its initial Business Combination within 12 months from the closing of the IPO or (B) with respect to any other material provisions relating to shareholders rights or pre-initial Business Combination activity or (iii) the redemption of the Companys public shares if it is unable to complete its initial Business Combination within 12 months from the closing of the IPO, subject to applicable law. The proceeds deposited in the Trust Account could become subject to the claims of our creditors, if any, which could have priority over the claims of our public shareholders. The proceeds held in the Trust Account will be invested only in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act that invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. After the payment of underwriting discounts and commissions and approximately $458,249 in expenses relating to the IPO, approximately $1,693,616 of the net proceeds of the IPO and Private Placement was not deposited into the Trust Account and was retained by us for working capital purposes. The net proceeds deposited into the Trust Account remain on deposit in the Trust Account earning interest. As of June 30, 2022, there was $80,041,000 in investments and cash held in the Trust Account and $131,568 of cash held outside the Trust Account available for working capital purposes. As of June 30, 2022, no funds had been withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the Companys income taxes. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete our initial Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through June 30, 2022 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the IPO, described below. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial Business Combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the IPO. We expect that we will incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, a Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2022, we had a net income of approximately $35,000, which consisted of income of approximately $425,000 derived from fair value of warrant liabilities and interest earned on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of approximately $36,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account, offset by operating costs of approximately $426,000. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, we had a net income of approximately $639,000, which consisted of income of approximately $1,412,000 derived from fair value of warrant liabilities and approximately $38,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account, offset by operating costs of approximately $811,000. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $46,000 which were primarily formation expenses and operating costs. From March 19, 2021 (inception) through June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $48,000, which were primarily formation expenses and operating costs. 18 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had $131,568 and $240,706 in cash, respectively. Until the consummation of the IPO, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the Sponsor and loans from our Sponsor. On July 19, 2021, we consummated the IPO of 8,000,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $80,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, we consummated the sale of 3,400,000 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor and the underwriters at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant generating gross proceeds of $3,400,000. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, which interest shall be net of taxes payable, to complete our Business Combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied through the $25,000 capital contribution to purchase Founder Shares by our Sponsor and the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. The balance of the promissory note was fully repaid on July 22, 2021. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us Working Capital Loans. As of June 30, 2022, the Company has an outstanding balance of $150,000 under the Working Capital Loans. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. As of August 16, 2022, the Company has drawn down $172,000 under the Working Capital Loans and management further intends to close a Business Combination before the Extended Date. As of June 30, 2022, the Company had $131,568 in cash held outside of the Trust Account and a working capital deficiency of $462,046. The Company anticipates that the cash held outside of the Trust Account as of June 30, 2022 will be not sufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of the financial statements, assuming that a Business Combination is not consummated during that time. The Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur significant costs in pursuit of its acquisition plans. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern for a period of time within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. Management plans to address this uncertainty through the initial Business Combination as discussed above. There is no assurance that the Companys plans to consummate an initial Business Combination will be successful or successful within the Combination Period. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We had no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2022. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. 19 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than as described below. Pursuant to the Business Combination Marketing Agreement between the Company, Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, a marketing fee equal to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the IPO will become payable to Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC only if the Company consummates a Business Combination. If a Business Combination does not occur, the Company will not be required to pay these contingent fees. There can be no assurances that the Company will complete a Business Combination. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liabilities We account for the Private Placement Warrants in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 815-40-15 under which the Private Placement Warrants do not meet the criteria for equity treatment and must be recorded as liabilities. Accordingly, we classify the Private Placement Warrants as liabilities at their fair value and adjust the Warrants to fair value at each reporting period. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in our statements of operations. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements. JOBS Act The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an independent registered public accounting firms attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the independent registered public accounting firms report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis), and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the IPO or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.