Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the sections titled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Our financial data for periods ending or as of dates prior to the completion of the Mobileye IPO have been derived from the consolidated financial statements and accounting records of Intel Corporation (Intel) using the historical results of operations and the historical basis of assets and liabilities. The financial data herein includes costs of our business, which may not, however, reflect the expenses we would have incurred as a stand-alone company for the periods presented. Following the completion of the Mobileye IPO, the consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Company Overview Mobileye is a leader in the development and deployment of advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving technologies and solutions. We pioneered ADAS technology more than 20 years ago and have continuously expanded the scope of our ADAS offerings, while leading the evolution to autonomous driving solutions. Our portfolio of solutions is built upon a comprehensive suite of purpose-built software and hardware technologies designed to provide the capabilities needed to make the future of ADAS and autonomous driving a reality. These technologies can be harnessed to deliver mission-critical capabilities at the edge and in the cloud, advancing the safety of road users, and revolutionizing the driving experience and the movement of people and goods globally. As of September 30, 2023, our solutions had been installed in approximately 800 vehicle models (including local country, year, and other vehicle model variations), and our System-on-Chips (SoCs) had been deployed in over 160 million vehicles. We are actively working with more than 50 Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) worldwide on the implementation of our ADAS solutions. In the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we shipped approximately 25.9 million of our systems, the substantial majority of which were EyeQ SoCs. This represents an increase from the approximately 24.0 million of our systems that we shipped in the nine months ended October 1, 2022. We were founded in Israel in 1999. Our co-founder, Professor Amnon Shashua, is our President and Chief Executive Officer. In 2014, we completed an initial public offering as a foreign private issuer and traded under the symbol MBLY on the New York Stock Exchange. Intel acquired Mobileye for $15.3 billion in 2017, after which we became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel. We completed the Reorganization (as defined below) and the Mobileye IPO in October 2022. Reorganization and Initial Public Offering In October 2022, Intel completed the internal reorganization and design of our new public entity (the Reorganization) for purposes of the Mobileye IPO. The registration statement related to the Mobileye IPO was declared effective on October 25, 2022, and our Class A common stock began trading on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol MBLY on October 26, 2022. Prior to the completion of the Mobileye IPO, we were a wholly-owned business of Intel. On November 1, 2022, we closed the sale of additional shares pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters the over-allotment option. For further information and descriptions of the transactions in the Reorganization related to the Mobileye IPO, see Note 1 of the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on March 9, 2023 (the 2022 Form 10-K), and the section entitled Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, as filed with the SEC on April 28, 2023. 25 Table of Contents Operations in Israel. On October 7, 2023, Hamas launched a series of attacks from the Gaza Strip on civilian and military targets in southern Israel, to which the Israel Defense Forces have responded. Our business activities in Israel continue to operate at their normal capacity without major disruption and we do not have customers who are based in Israel. At this stage, we expect that the current conflict in the Gaza Strip and the security escalation in Israel will not have a material impact on our business results in the short term. Approximately 16% of our employees have been called to reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and we have provided employees more flexibility to work from home on an as needed basis. However, since this is an event beyond our control, its continuation or cessation may affect our expectations. We continue to monitor political and military developments closely and examine the consequences for our operations and assets. Our Business Model We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our commercially deployed ADAS solutions. In the future, propelled by our next generation of EyeQ SoCs, our surround computer vision Mobileye SuperVision solution, productization of software-defined imaging radars and our True Redundancy architecture, we believe that we will be positioned to deliver an autonomous driving solution that can enable the mass adoption of AV. We generate the majority of our revenue from the sale of our EyeQ SoCs to OEMs through sales to Tier 1 automotive suppliers. We typically sell our products with volume-based pricing and recognize the revenue and costs associated with our products upon shipment. We invest significant time and other resources early in the process of new program sourcing as part of our relationship with an OEM. We typically have visibility into the number of models that are expected to include our products at least two to three years in advance based on OEM information provided during the sourcing and nomination process, although there is no contractual commitment by the OEM to purchase particular volumes, and programs are subject to changes with respect to timing and volumes. The revenue that we may recognize in any given year is attributable to program design wins in previous years. We partner with STMicroelectronics, a leading supplier and innovator of semiconductor devices for automotive applications, in manufacturing, design, and research and development. We have co-developed six generations of our automotive grade SOC, EyeQ, with STMicroelectronics, including EyeQ5 and EyeQ6. We have also established a relationship with Quanta Computer to develop and assemble our ECUs, including the design for our Mobileye SuperVision, which includes our EyeQ5 SoCs manufactured by STMicroelectronics. Our close partnership with Intel exists on multiple fronts. As a result of our relationship with Intel, we have access to unique and differentiating technologies such as proprietary silicon photonics fabrication technologies, which we may leverage for the early development of our FMCW lidar, which has the potential to replace alternative third-party lidar sensors to further enhance the performance of our sensor suite. We may also license certain technologies from Intel that support design and development of our software-defined radar, including Intels mmWave technologies. Additionally, we intend to explore a collaboration with Intel on a technology platform to integrate our EyeQ SoC with Intels market leading central compute capability, with plans to utilize Intel Foundry Services advanced packaging capabilities. This potential platform is intended to enable functions essential to safety, entertainment, and cloud connectivity. Intels strength in government affairs and policy development around the world and will continue to be of significant value to us as we collaborate with regulators who are preparing frameworks to enable commercial deployment of AVs. 26 Table of Contents Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe there are several important factors that have affected and that we expect to continue to affect our results of operations: Global demand for automotive vehicles. Our business performance is related to global automotive sales and automotive vehicle production by our OEM customers. Economic conditions in North America, Europe and Asia can have a large impact on the production volume of new vehicles, and, accordingly, have an impact on our revenue. Our OEM customers production can vary from period to period due to global demand, market conditions and competitive conditions, as well as other factors, including the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. While the automotive industry is showing recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, with approximately 6% growth in global vehicle production year over year in 2022, production in 2022 was still approximately 8% below the 2019 level. Moreover, automakers continue to face supply chain shortages, and we expect that global vehicle production will remain below pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels in 2023. Furthermore, current uncertain economic conditions and inflation may contribute to a reduction in consumer demand, which may reduce vehicle production over at least the next several quarters. For example, in the first quarter of 2023, the Chinese electric vehicle market was negatively impacted by price reductions by a global electric vehicle OEM, reduction in government electric vehicle subsidies, and general economic weakness in the country. Our current primary customer for SuperVisionTM reduced orders for this product for calendar year 2023 as a result. In addition, in prior periods, certain Tier 1 customers increased their orders for components and parts, including our solutions, to counteract the impact of supply chain shortages for auto parts, and we expect these Tier 1 customers will utilize accrued inventory on hand before placing new orders to meet the demand of OEMs in current or future periods. As a result, some demand for our solutions and the corresponding revenue from these customers were shifted to earlier time periods than otherwise would have occurred absent a general supply chain shortage and inflationary environment. We cannot predict when the impact of these factors on global vehicle production will substantially diminish. However, ADAS volumes have grown faster in recent years than the overall automotive market as ADAS penetration rates have increased, and we believe that we will continue to benefit from that trend. Our revenue of $1,442 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was up 11% year-over-year. However, continued or future constraints on global automotive production resulting from supply chain shortages and the effects of economic uncertainty may be a limiting factor on our ability to increase revenue. We expect to continue to capitalize on our strong and collaborative relationships with OEMs and Tier 1s to expand our presence in key markets and capture the long-term growth opportunities in those markets. Design wins with new and existing customers. Global OEMs are continuously looking for innovative ways to improve the customer appeal and safety of their vehicles. Additional program design wins for production programs are important to our future revenue growth. However, the revenue generated by each design win and the time necessary to achieve a design win can vary significantly. To achieve program design wins, we must maintain our technological leadership and continue to deliver differentiated solutions versus our competition through investment in research and development. Together with Tier 1 automotive suppliers, we work closely with OEMs to understand their solution requirements and have built close long-term relationships with them extending across multiple generations of EyeQ products, though there is no guarantee that our customers will purchase our solutions in any certain quantity or at any certain price even after we achieve design wins. Investment in technology leadership and product development. We believe our ability to continue to develop and design highly advanced and cost-efficient ADAS and AV solutions will position us to extend our technology leadership and encourage greater adoption of our solutions by enabling greater levels of autonomy. We also believe that our roadmap for future generations of EyeQ SoCs and advanced systems will ultimately power autonomous driving solutions. The EyeQ family design further enables scalable ECU architectures, from supporting a variety of ADAS solution architectures to hosting the full workload of autonomous driving, while meeting stringent cost and power efficiency requirements. We expect that our development of software-defined radar will provide a significant cost advantage by eliminating the need for multiple high-cost lidars around the vehicle and require only a single front-facing lidar, significantly lowering the overall cost of the required sensors compared to solutions that use lidar centric or lidar-only systems. Together with Intel, we also are currently in the early stages of development of FMCW lidar, which has the potential to replace alternative third-party lidar to further enhance the performance of our sensor suite. We believe the ability of our foundational technology to provide a low-cost scale solution with low power-consumption, both from an on-board technology and sensor suite perspective, will be critical to enabling the mass adoption of autonomous driving solutions. 27 Table of Contents Regulation for ADAS and autonomous driving solutions. Demand for our solutions is influenced by the impact of regulation and the ratings systems deployed by the various NCAPs, particularly the Euro NCAP and the U.S. NCAP, administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. As these NCAPs demand more ADAS applications such as automatic emergency braking, OEMs will increasingly include ADAS as a standard feature in their models to maintain or to achieve the highest safety ratings. In many countries, these safety assessments have created a market for safety as car manufacturers seek to demonstrate that their models satisfy the NCAPs highest ratings. We expect national NCAPs to continue to add specific ADAS applications to their evaluation items over the next several years, led by the Euro NCAP. In recent years, as regulatory requirements and NCAP ratings have increased, OEMs have also begun to highlight their safety features as a competitive advantage. As additional regulations are implemented around the world, we expect this to lead to increased global adoption of ADAS, and we believe that we are well positioned to benefit from such increasing safety regulations globally, particularly due to the verifiable nature of our current and future solutions. Fully autonomous vehicles are still nascent, and regulation of autonomous driving is evolving globally on both a local and national level. We believe that regulatory bodies will demand that AV undergo certain validation and audit requirements before autonomous driving is permitted. The potential impact of regulatory requirements and initiatives on the timing for widespread adoption of fully autonomous driving and on the cost of developing and introducing autonomous driving solutions is uncertain. RSS is our framework that informs our driving policy and formalizes a driving safety concept. Our RSS framework and decision-making engine have inspired a global standardization effort of AV safety including IEEE 2846, which is an industry working group that we lead. We are actively engaged in AV regulations globally as they have implications for the pace at which autonomous driving technologies may be deployed as well as which AV technology validation and audit requirements must be met. Importantly, we believe RSS, which is a pragmatic method that is architected to deliver a provably acceptable level of risk defined by governments, will facilitate standardization efforts worldwide as AV deployments accelerate. In addition to impacting the pace at which autonomous driving technologies are deployed, we expect regulations to impact our financial performance on an ongoing basis over time once autonomous driving gains market adoption. We cannot provide any assurance how any such regulations will impact us and the extent of such impact, particularly if autonomous driving is prohibited in certain areas. Consumer adoption of our ADAS and autonomous driving solutions. Our financial performance is in part driven by public awareness and demand for ADAS solutions. Over time we expect autonomous driving solutions to contribute meaningfully to our revenue growth. As a result, consumers demand for, and willingness to adopt, ADAS and autonomous driving technologies will significantly impact our financial performance. We believe that our leadership position in ADAS positions us to continue to set the standard for advanced autonomous solutions and will help us benefit from increasing consumer confidence in and demand for autonomous technology over time. Solution mix, pricing, and product costs. Solution mix is among the most important factors affecting our revenue and gross margin, as our prices vary significantly across our solutions. The price of our solutions depends on the bundle of applications that are included in the specific product. Our solutions have different margin profiles. As we develop, bundle, and sell full systems that include third-party hardware beyond EyeQ SoCs, we expect that our gross margin will decrease on a percentage basis because of the greater third-party hardware content. However, as a result of a higher expected selling price for such systems, we expect our gross profit per unit will increase on a dollar basis. Average selling price (ASP) varies based on a solutions applications and complexity. As a particular solution matures and unit volumes increase, we expect its ASP to decline. In addition, there are generally step-downs in pricing over periods of production as volumes ramp up. While individual solution ASPs may decline, we seek to continually offer new features and functionality and increase the value that our solutions offer to OEM customers as we target new design win opportunities manage the life cycles of existing solutions and create new ADAS categories with advanced features. We also are delivering full system solutions consisting of higher-function products such as SuperVisionTM which carry significantly higher prices as compared to our single EyeQ SoC and cloud-enhanced ADAS products. We believe our differentiated and scalable solutions consistently enhanced by additional features can enable us to maintain or increase overall ASPs over time, as SuperVisionTM and other advanced solutions become a larger portion of our product mix. 28 Table of Contents The cost of input materials and manufacturing costs are significant factors affecting our gross margin. Material costs are affected by a variety of factors, including the availability of sufficient supply to meet market demand. For example, in late 2021, semiconductor fabrication costs increased as a result of a global supply shortage that began in 2020. We experienced increases in input costs as a result of supply chain shortages, including the global semiconductor shortage, and inflationary pressures. While we seek to increase our ASPs to reflect these cost increases, we anticipate that our gross margin will decrease, at least in the short term, as a result of these cost increases. Our gross margin has been and may continue to be affected by our ability to offset these and any future cost increases through realizing pricing increases on our solutions and achieving decreases in other production costs. We work closely with STMicroelectronics and Quanta Computer on a continuous basis to manage material costs, increase yields and improve manufacturing, assembly, and test costs. Supply and manufacturing capacity. Our solutions are dependent on the global semiconductor supply chain. The continued and timely supply of input materials, the availability of manufacturing capacity, and packaging and testing services at reasonable prices impact our ability to meet customer demand. Supply chain disruptions, shortages of raw material, such as wafers and substrates, and manufacturing limitations could limit our ability to meet customer demand and result in delayed, reduced, or canceled orders. During 2021 and 2022, the semiconductor industry experienced widespread shortages of substrates and other components and available foundry manufacturing capacity. We entered 2022 with significantly lower inventories of our EyeQ SoCs as a result of the limited supply during 2021. Further, STMicroelectronics, our sole supplier of EyeQ SoCs, was not able to meet our demand for EyeQ SoCs during 2022, causing a significant reduction in our inventory level. Starting in late 2022 and early 2023 such supply chain disruptions, raw material shortages and manufacturing limitations abated and during the first nine months of 2023, we successfully increased levels of EyeQ SoC inventory on hand, mitigating the potential for future supply constraints to cause a shortfall. However, in the event of a reoccurrence of supply chain constraints, and subject to the duration and severity thereof, we may be required to operate with minimal or no inventory of EyeQ SoCs or SuperVisionTM ECUs on hand. As a result, we are substantially reliant on timely shipments of EyeQ SoCs from STMicroelectronics and ECUs from Quanta Computer (or other suppliers) to fulfill customer orders and if such a shortfall of chips or ECUs were to occur, we may be unable to offset future supply constraints through the use of inventory on hand. Our results of operations in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 have not been impacted by any shortfall of chips. Our reliance on single or limited suppliers and vendors for certain components, equipment, and services and the aforementioned shortages of substrates and other components have led to increased supply chain risks and may stress our ability to meet the supply demands of our customers. To mitigate these supply chain constraints, management monitors inventory levels on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot fully predict the length and the severity of the impact these pressures may have on a long-term basis, we do not anticipate that potential supply chain constraints would materially adversely affect our results of operations, capital resources, sales, profits, and liquidity on a long-term basis. Public company expenses. As a recently public company, we continue to implement additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In particular, we expect our accounting, legal and personnel-related expenses to increase as we establish more comprehensive compliance and governance functions and hire additional personnel to support such functions, maintain and review internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and prepare and distribute periodic reports in accordance with SEC rules. Our financial statements will reflect the impact of these expenses. We also expect the costs of our insurance, including directors and officers insurance and insurance coverage for AV activity, to increase as a result of higher premiums. In addition, in connection with the Mobileye IPO, we established an equity incentive plan for purposes of granting share-based compensation awards to certain members of our senior management, to our non-executive directors and to employees, to incentivize their performance and align their interests with ours. Historically, grants of share-based compensation to our employees were made pursuant to Intels employee equity incentive plans, and such historical grants will continue based on their original vesting schedules. Equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our future compensation strategy and a significant component of our future expenses, which we expect to increase over time. Intel Segment Reporting Certain of our financial results are presented as an operating segment within Intels publicly reported financial results. The financial results for us reported by Intel in its segment reporting may differ from our standalone financial results primarily due to Intels reporting of expenses related to certain corporate overhead functions and differences in the materiality thresholds applied to prepare consolidated financial results for Intel and for Mobileye on a standalone basis. 29 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our commercially deployed ADAS solutions. We generate the majority of our revenue from the sale of our EyeQ SoCs to OEMs through sales to Tier 1 automotive suppliers that implement our product into vehicles, in which case our direct customer is the Tier 1 automotive supplier that is responsible for paying us for our products. Because of the complex nature of our products and the need to customize and validate a product and to integrate it into the OEMs overall ADAS system, we also have strong direct relationships with the OEMs. EyeQ SoC sales represented approximately 89% and 88% of our revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, respectively, and 90% of our revenue both in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, . Sales of our SuperVision product represented the majority of the remainder of our revenue for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and also for the three and nine months ended October 1, 2022. Revenue from the sale of our EyeQ products and SuperVision products is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities, as determined by the agreed-upon shipping terms. Our sales to any single Tier 1 automotive supplier typically cover more than one OEM and more than one production program from any OEM. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the manufacturing cost of our EyeQ SoCs and our SuperVision products, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, identified as developed technology. Additional costs are royalty fees for the intellectual property that is included in the EyeQ SoC, personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation for employees on our operations teams, logistics and insurance costs and allocated overhead costs. As we develop and sell full systems that include hardware beyond EyeQ SoCs, we expect that our gross margin will decrease because of the greater hardware content included in our solutions. However, as a result of a higher expected selling price for such systems, we expect our gross profit per unit will increase on a dollar basis. Research and Development Expenses, net Research and development expenses primarily consist of expenses related to personnel, facilities, equipment and supplies for research and development activities including share-based compensation, materials, parts and other prototype development, cloud computing services, consulting, and other professional services, including data labeling, quality assurance within the development programs, and allocated overhead costs. We occasionally enter into best-efforts nonrefundable non-recurring engineering arrangements pursuant to which we are reimbursed for a portion of the research and development expenses attributable to specific development programs. We do not receive any additional compensation or royalties upon completion of such projects and the potential customer does not commit to purchase the resulting product in the future. The participation reimbursement that we receive does not depend on whether there are future benefits from the project. All intellectual property generated from these arrangements are exclusively owned by us. We intend to continue our significant investment in research and development activities to attain our strategic objectives. Accordingly, we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to gradually decrease as a percentage of total revenue, over time. We expect that in the near term our research and development expenses will increase compared to 2022, mainly due to additional research and development headcount and higher direct expenses that we expect to incur in connection with the development of our new EyeQ SoC generations, Premium Driver-Assist offerings and the productization of our AV solutions and active sensor suite. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of expenses associated with the amortization of acquired intangible assets, comprised of customer relationships and branding costs, personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation, of our sales force, as well as advertising and marketing expenses and allocated overhead costs. 30 Table of Contents We expect to increase our sales and marketing expenses as we continue our efforts to increase market awareness of the benefits of our solutions, but we expect sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of total revenue as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation, of our executive, finance, and legal departments as well as legal and accounting fees, litigation expenses, and fees for professional and contract services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of total revenue as our business grows. The primary reasons for the growth in general and administrative expenses will be the costs related to being a public company, including the need to hire more personnel to support compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other SEC rules and regulations as well as increased premiums for directors and officers insurance and the increased use of share-based compensation for general and administrative personnel. Interest Income (Expense) with related party, net and Other Financial Income (Expense), net On April 21, 2022, we and Intel entered into a loan agreement whereby we distributed to Intel the Dividend Note in an aggregate principal amount of $3.5 billion (the Dividend Note). The Dividend Note accrued interest at a rate equal to 1.26% per annum. In November 2022, we used approximately $0.9 billion out of the net proceeds of the Mobileye IPO to repay a portion of the indebtedness under the Dividend Note and Intel contributed to Mobileye the remaining portion of the Dividend Note (plus related accrued interest) such that no amounts under the Dividend Note remain owed by us to Intel. In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 we had no interest income (expense) with related party since the outstanding balance of both the Dividend Note and a loan to Intel were zero as of December 31, 2022. In the three and nine months ended October 1, 2022, we incurred a net interest expense of $6 million and $11 million, respectively, which mainly relates to accrued interest on the Dividend Note to Intel. Other financial income (expense), net, consists primarily of income related to investment in money market funds, as well as income from short term deposits and fluctuations in value due to foreign exchange differences between our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in New Israeli Shekels and to a much lesser extent, the Euro, the Chinese Yuan, the Japanese Yen, and other currencies. Benefit (provision) for income taxes Benefit (provision) for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to the United States, Israel, and other foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We also have incurred deferred tax liabilities with respect to tax amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. We are eligible for certain tax benefits in Israel under the Investment Law, at a reduced tax rate, subject to specified terms. During the periods presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, certain components of our business operations were included in the consolidated U.S. domestic and certain foreign income tax returns filed by Intel, where applicable. We also file certain foreign income tax returns on a separate basis, distinct from Intel. The income tax provision included in our condensed consolidated financial statements has been calculated using the separate return method as if we had filed our own tax returns. We present tax loss and tax credit carry-forward amounts that have not been utilized by Intel only to the extent such tax attributes can be claimed as a benefit consistent with our separate income tax return method approach. The use of the separate return method may result in differences between our income tax provision compared to Intels consolidated income tax provision. In 2021, Mobileyes Israeli operations became taxable in the United States as a branch entity. In 2022, Moovits Israeli operations became taxable in the United States as a branch entity. As a result, these operations are taxed both in the United States and Israel. For U.S. tax purposes, there are favorable future tax deductions from which we have not benefited due to a valuation allowance position. If warranted, based on the assessment of verifiable evidence in support of the realization of the deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances may be released, resulting in a tax benefit. 31 Table of Contents Realization of deferred tax assets is based on our judgment and various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, the ability to generate future taxable income in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen, and potential tax planning strategies. The valuation allowance for the periods presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements primarily related to U.S. branch deferred tax assets not currently expected to be realized given that we have sustained recent losses based on the separate return method. Certain net operating losses and tax credit carry-forward tax attributes generated by the Company that have been utilized as part of Intels consolidated income tax return filings, but have not been utilized by the Company under the separate return method approach, have been reflected in these condensed consolidated financial statements because the Company will recognize a benefit based on the separate return method when determined to be realizable. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three months Ended Nine months Ended September 30, October 1, September 30, October 1, 2023 2022 2023 2022 % of % of % of % of U.S. dollars in millions Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Revenue $ 530 100 % $ 450 100 % $ 1,442 100 % $ 1,304 100 % Cost of revenue 258 49 % 233 52 % 739 51 % 682 52 % Gross profit 272 51 % 217 48 % 703 49 % 622 48 % Operating expenses: Research and development, net 218 41 % 206 46 % 664 46 % 565 43 % Sales and marketing 28 5 % 27 6 % 90 6 % 91 7 % General and administrative 18 3 % 9 2 % 55 4 % 27 2 % Total operating expenses 264 50 % 242 54 % 809 56 % 683 52 % Operating income (loss) $ 8 2 % $ (25) (6) % $ (106) (7) % $ (61) (5) % Interest Income (expense) with related party, net and Other Financial Income (expense), net 15 3 % (5) (1) % 38 3 % (5) % Income (loss) before income taxes 23 4 % (30) (7) % (68) (5) % (66) (5) % Benefit (provision) for income taxes (6) (1) % (15) (3) % (22) (2) % (46) (4) % Net income (loss) $ 17 3 % $ (45) (10) % $ (90) (6) % $ (112) (9) % (1) Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets, as follows: Three months Ended Nine months Ended September 30, October 1, September 30, October 1, U.S. dollars in millions 2023 2022 2023 2022 Cost of revenue $ 94 $ 115 $ 311 $ 355 Sales and marketing 17 16 51 58 Total amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 111 $ 131 $ 362 $ 413 (2) Includes share-based compensation expense, as follows: Three months Ended Nine months Ended September 30, October 1, September 30, October 1, U.S. dollars in millions 2023 2022 2023 2022 Cost of revenue $ $ $ 2 $ Research and development, net 53 32 158 101 Sales and marketing 2 1 6 3 General and administrative 8 3 24 8 Total share-based compensation $ 63 $ 36 $ 190 $ 112 32 Table of Contents Comparison of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022 Revenue In the three months ended September 30, 2023, revenue increased by $80 million, or 18%, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. This increase in revenue was primarily due to a combination of volume and ASP growth in our EyeQ chip related revenue. In the nine months ended September 30, 2023, revenue increased by $138 million, or 11%, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $123 million, or 10%, in EyeQ and SuperVision sales, attributable to an 8% increase in volume and a 2% increase in Average System Price which is calculated as the sum of revenue related to EyeQ and SuperVision systems, divided by the number of systems delivered. Cost of Revenue In the three months ended September 30, 2023, our cost of revenue increased by $25 million, or 11% compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $40 million in manufacturing costs related to increased sales of our EyeQ and also the rise in the cost of our EyeQ SoCs due to the global semiconductor shortage and inflationary pressures partially offset by a decrease of $21 million in amortization of intangible assets. In the nine months ended September 30, 2023, our cost of revenue increased by $57 million, or 8%, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $92 million in manufacturing costs relating primarily to increased sales of our EyeQ SoC and our sales of SuperVision systems, as well as to a rise in the cost of our EyeQ SoCs, partially offset by a decrease of $44 million in amortization expenses. Gross Profit and margin In the three months ended September 30 2023, our gross profit increased by $55 million, or 25% compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. In the nine months ended September 30 2023, our gross profit increased by $81 million, or 13%, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. The gross profit increase in both periods was mainly driven by the increase in revenue from our EyeQ SoC sales, as well as the sales of our SuperVision solution and by the the decrease in Amortization charges related to fully amortized intangibles of Moovits acquisition. Our gross margin has increased by 3 percentage points to 51% in the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to 48% in the three months ended October 1, 2022. Our gross margin has increased by 1 percentage point to 49% in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to 48% in the nine months ended October 1, 2022 . This is mainly due to the lower impact of the cost attributable to amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of revenue partly offset by the downward impact of the increased cost of our EyeQ SoCs (which was passed through as a price increase to our customers on a zero-margin basis). Research and Development Expenses, net Research and development expenses, net, in the three months ended September 30, 2023, increased by $12 million, or 6%, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $11 million in payroll and related expenses, resulting from an increase in average research and development headcount of 383 employees, including an increase of $21 million in share-based compensation, mainly offset by the depreciation of the New Israeli Shekel against the USD which resulted in lower than expected payroll related expenses. Research and development expenses, net, in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $99 million, or 18%, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $76 million in payroll and related expenses, resulting from an increase in average research and development headcount of 441 employees and an increase in payroll costs, including an increase of $57 million in share-based compensation. The remaining increase is mainly related to occupancy and related expenses associated with the lease of new office space in additional sites. 33 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $1 million, or 4%, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. Sales and marketing expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 decreased by $1 million, or 1% , compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. This decrease was mainly due to a decrease of $7 million in amortization charges related to intangibles of Moovit's acquisition partially offset by an increase in advertising and marketing expenses. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses in the three months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $9 million, or 100%, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was mainly due to an increase of $5 million in payroll and related expenses, relates to share-based compensation, as well as costs related to being a public company, partially offset by the Mobileye IPO related expenses incurred in prior year period. General and administrative expenses in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 increased by $28, or 104%, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. This increase was mainly due to an increase in payroll and related expenses, including an increase of $16 million in share-based compensation, as well as costs related to being a public company, partially offset by the Mobileye IPO related expenses incurred in prior year period. Interest Income (expense) with related party, net and Other Financial Income (expense), net Interest expense with related party, net in the three months ended September 30, 2023 was $0 million compared to $6 million in the three months ended October 1, 2022, and $0 million compared to $11 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and nine months ended October 1, 2022, respectively. These changes were due to zero outstanding balances of both the Dividend Note and a loan to Intel as of December 31, 2022. Other financial income, net, in the three months ended September 30, 2023 was $15 million compared to $1 million in the three months ended October 1, 2022 and $38 million compared to $6 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and nine months ended October 1, 2022, respectively. This increase was mainly due to interest earned on investment in money market funds, as well as short term bank deposits. Benefit (Provision) for Income Tax In the three months ended September 30, 2023 provision for income tax decreased by $9 million, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022. This decrease was mainly driven by a change in the jurisdictional composition of our taxable income based on operational results. In the nine months ended September 30, 2023, provision for income tax decreased by $24 million, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. This decrease was mainly due to a change in the jurisdictional composition of our taxable income based on operational results and the recognition of discrete tax expenses in 2022. Additionally, the decrease was driven by a withholding tax expense of $14 million related to a dividend distribution between entities within the Mobileye Group in the nine months ended October 1, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe we have sufficient sources of funding to meet our business requirements and plans for the next 12 months and in the longer term. Cash generated by operations is our primary source of liquidity for funding our strategic business requirements. 34 Table of Contents Our primary uses of funds have been for funding increases in headcount in our research and development departments and investments attributable to new product development, as well as for funding our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures have related mainly to the construction of our new sites and campus, data storage and other computer related equipment and were $75 million and $79 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and October 1, 2022, respectively. To fund our cash requirements in the ordinary course of business, we anticipate that we will continue to primarily rely on operating cash flows, supplemented by our total cash and cash equivalents. We expect our total capital expenditures for 2023 to be above our total capital expenditures in 2022, mainly given the expansion to additional facilities required to accommodate our headcount growth, as well as investments in equipment related to the development of our next generation products. The construction of our campus is planned to be completed in the first quarter of 2024, with a remaining cost we estimate to be between $25 million and $35 million. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate and the timing and extent of operating expenses. We have lease obligations and other contractual obligations and commitments as part of our ordinary course of business. We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements involving commitments or obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from arrangements with unconsolidated entities or persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements or capital resources. Cash Flows The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of cash flow data: Nine months Ended U.S. dollars in millions September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 285 $ 395 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (75) 319 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (29) (451) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (9) (6) Increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 172 $ 257 Operating activities For the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022, the $110 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities was mainly due to an increase in inventories, as part of a planned initiative to rebuild our strategic inventory of EyeQ chips that was largely consumed during the supply chain crisis in 2021 and 2022, which was partially offset by a change in employee related balances in the nine months ended October 1, 2022 which was due to our recruitment of certain employees relating to the Mobileye business from Intel, as well as a flat accounts receivable balance in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 in comparison to an increase in prior year period. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was $75 million, consisting of capital expenditures. Net cash provided by investing activities in the nine months ended October 1, 2022 was $319 million consisting primarily of a $398 million net loan repayment by Intel to Mobileye, partially offset by capital expenditures. 35 Table of Contents Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was $29 million, consisting of share-based compensation recharge payments made to Intel. Net cash used in financing activities in the nine months ended October 1, 2022 was $451 million, consisting primarily of $200 million share-based compensation recharge payments and $336 million dividend contribution made to Intel, partially offset by $99 million of a net contribution from Intel. Liability in respect of employee rights upon retirement Israeli labor laws and agreements require severance payments upon dismissal of an employee or upon termination of employment in other circumstances. The severance pay liability with respect to Israeli employees is calculated pursuant to Israeli Severance Pay Law based on the most recent salary of the employees multiplied by the number of years of employment as of the balance sheet date. Our liability for all of our Israeli employees is covered by monthly deposits with severance pay funds. The value of the deposited funds is based on the cash surrender value of these policies and includes profits (or loss) accumulated through the balance sheet date. The deposited funds may be withdrawn only upon the fulfillment of the obligations pursuant to Israeli Severance Pay Law or labor agreements. Part of our liability for severance pay is covered by the provisions of Section 14 of the Israeli Severance Pay Law (Section 14). Under Section 14 employees are entitled to monthly deposits, at a rate of 8.33% of their monthly salary, contributed by us on their behalf to their insurance funds. Payments in accordance with Section 14 release us from any future severance payments in respect of those employees. As a result, we do not recognize any liability for severance pay due to these employees and the deposits under Section 14 are not recorded as assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Severance pay liability decreased from $56 million as of December 31, 2022, to $53 million as of September 30, 2023, reflecting mainly the impact of fluctuations in value due to foreign exchange differences between New Israeli Shekel and USD. Indebtedness We have several bank guarantees aggregating approximately $14 million as of September 30, 2023 (mainly denominated in New Israeli Shekels) mainly in connection with lease agreements and import of vehicles. In addition, in connection with the Reorganization and the Mobileye IPO, on April 21, 2022, we distributed to Intel the Dividend Note, in the aggregate principal amount of $3.5 billion. In November 2022, we used approximately $0.9 billion out of the net proceeds from the Mobileye IPO, to repay a portion of indebtedness under the Dividend Note, and Intel contributed to Mobileye the remaining portion of the Dividend Note such that no amounts under the Dividend Note remain owed by us to Intel. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our management uses Adjusted Gross Profit and Margin, Adjusted Operating Income and Margin and Adjusted Net Income, collectively, as key measures in operating our business. We use such non-GAAP financial measures to make strategic decisions, establish business plans and forecasts, identify trends affecting our business, and evaluate performance. For example, we use these non-GAAP financial measures to assess our pricing and sourcing strategy, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, and as a measure of our operating performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because they allow for greater transparency into what measures our management (and Intels management) uses in operating our business and measuring our performance, and enable comparison of financial trends and results between periods where items may vary independent of business performance. The non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, as well as our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. 36 Table of Contents We believe excluding items that neither relate to the ordinary course of business nor reflect our underlying business performance, such as the amortization of intangible assets and certain expenses related the Mobileye IPO, enables management and our investors to compare our underlying business performance from period-to-period. Accordingly, we believe these adjustments facilitate a useful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparison to our past operating performance and provide investors with additional means to evaluate cost and expense trends. In addition, we also believe these adjustments enhance comparability of our financial performance against those of other technology companies. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments for amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense and certain expenses related to the Mobileye IPO as well as the related income tax effects where applicable. We exclude amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures, although revenue is generated, in part, by these intangible assets, to eliminate the impact of these non-cash charges that are inconsistent in size and are significantly impacted by the timing and valuation of our acquisitions. These amortization charges relate to intangible assets consisting of developed technology, customer relationships, and brands as a result of Intels acquisition of Mobileye in 2017 and the acquisition of Moovit in 2020. We believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense is appropriate because it eliminates the impact of non-cash expenses for equity-based compensation costs that are based upon valuation methodologies and assumptions that vary over time, and the amount of the expense can vary significantly between companies due to factors that are unrelated to their core operating performance and that can be outside of their control. Although we exclude share-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures, equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our future compensation strategy and a significant component of our future expenses, and may increase in future periods. We believe that the exclusion of expenses related to the Mobileye IPO is appropriate as they represent items that management believes are not indicative of our ongoing operating performance. These expenses are primarily composed of legal, accounting and professional fees incurred in connection with the Mobileye IPO that are not capitalizable, which are included within general and administrative expenses. Adjusted Gross Profit and Margin We define Adjusted Gross Profit as gross profit presented in accordance with GAAP, excluding amortization of acquisition related intangibles and share-based compensation expense. Adjusted Gross Margin is calculated as Adjusted Gross Profit divided by total revenue. Set forth below is the reconciliation of gross profit to Adjusted Gross Profit and the calculations of gross margin and Adjusted Gross Margin: Three months Ended Nine months Ended September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 U.S. dollars in millions Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Gross profit and margin $ 272 51 % $ 217 48 % $ 703 49 % $ 622 48 % Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 94 18 % 115 26 % 311 22 % 355 27 % Add: Share-based compensation expense % % 2 % % Adjusted gross profit and margin $ 366 69 % $ 332 74 % $ 1,016 70 % $ 977 75 % Our Gross Margin (gross profit as a percentage of revenue) and Adjusted Gross Margin (adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue) reflect the high value-added nature of our solutions. As we develop and sell full systems that include hardware beyond EyeQ SoCs, we expect that our Gross Margin and Adjusted Gross Margin will decrease because of the greater hardware content included in our solutions. However, as a result of a higher expected selling price for such systems, we expect our gross profit per unit will increase on a dollar basis. Our Adjusted Gross Margin decreased from 74% for the three months ended October 1, 2022 to 69% for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and from 75% for the nine months ended October 1, 2022 to 70% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. 37 Table of Contents The decrease in both periods was primarily due to increased cost of our EyeQ SoCs, due to the global semiconductor shortage and inflationary pressures, which was passed through as a price increase to our customers at the beginning of 2023 on a zero-margin basis. We define Adjusted Operating Income as operating loss presented in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude amortization of acquisition related intangibles, share-based compensation expenses and expenses related to the Mobileye IPO. Operating margin is calculated as operating loss divided by total revenue, and Adjusted Operating Margin is calculated as Adjusted Operating Income divided by total revenue. Set forth below is the reconciliation of operating income (loss) to Adjusted Operating Income and the calculations of Operating Margin and Adjusted Operating Margin: Three months Ended Nine months Ended September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 U.S. dollars in millions Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Operating income (loss) and operating margin $ 8 2 % $ (25) (6) % $ (106) (7) % $ (61) (5) % Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111 21 % 131 29 % 362 25 % 413 32 % Add: Share-based compensation expense 63 12 % 36 8 % 190 13 % 112 9 % Add: Expenses related to the IPO % 1 % % 4 % Adjusted operating income and margin $ 182 34 % $ 143 32 % $ 446 31 % $ 468 36 % The three months ended September 30, 2023 ended with an operating income of $8 million compared to a $25 million operating loss in the three months ended October 1, 2022. The increase is mainly due to higher revenue and gross profit. The nine months ended September 30, 2023 ended with an operating loss higher by $45 million compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022, mainly due to an increase in share-based compensation expense, as well as an increase in research and development expenses attributable to headcount growth, partially offset by a decrease in amortization expense of acquired intangible assets. Our Adjusted Operating Income increased by $39 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022, mainly due to increase in revenues. The Adjusted Operating Income was decreased by $22 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in research and development expenses attributable mainly to headcount growth. Our Adjusted Operating Margin increased from 32% for the three months ended October 1, 2022 to 34% for the three months ended September 30, 2023 mainly due to higher revenue with operating expenses that were largely consistent on a year over year basis. The Adjusted Operating Margin decreased from 36% for the nine months ended October 1, 2022 to 31% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease is mainly due to an increase in research and development expenses attributable to headcount growth, as well as lower Adjusted Gross Margin. Adjusted Net Income We define Adjusted Net Income as net income (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude amortization of acquisition related intangibles, share-based compensation expense and expenses related to the Mobileye IPO, as well as the related income tax effects. Income tax effects have been calculated using the applicable statutory tax rate for each adjustment taking into consideration the associated valuation allowance impacts. The adjustment for income tax effects consists primarily of the deferred tax impact of the amortization of acquired intangible assets. 38 Table of Contents Set forth below is the reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted Net Income: Three months Ended Nine months Ended September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 September 30, 2023 October 1, 2022 U.S. dollars in millions Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Net income (loss) $ 17 3 % $ (45) (10) % $ (90) (6) % $ (112) (9) % Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111 21 % 131 29 % 362 25 % 413 32 % Add: Share-based compensation expense 63 12 % 36 8 % 190 13 % 112 9 % Add: Expenses related to the IPO % 1 % % 4 % Less: Income tax effects (10) (2) % (9) (2) % (31) (2) % (27) (2) % Adjusted net income $ 181 34 % $ 114 25 % $ 431 30 % $ 390 30 % Our net income increased by $62 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022, and our net loss decreased by $22 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022. The improvement in both periods was mainly as a result of an increase in revenue as well as a decrease in amortization expense of acquired intangible assets and an increase in interest income, partially offset by an increase in share-based compensation expense. Our Adjusted Net Income increased by $67 million in the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the three months ended October 1, 2022, and by $41 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the nine months ended October 1, 2022, primarily due to an increase in revenue as well as increase in interest income. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time the estimate was made. Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the condensed consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2022 Form 10-K describe the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no material changes to the Companys critical accounting estimates since the 2022 Form 10-K. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Mobileye and its representatives may also, from time to time, make certain forward-looking statements in publicly released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, press releases, and our reports to shareholders. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as plan, expect, believe, intend, will, may, anticipate, estimate and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance (including volume growth, pricing, sales and earnings per share growth, and cash flows) and statements regarding our strategy for growth, future product development, regulatory approvals, competitive position and expenditures. All statements that address our future operating performance or events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are, and will be, based on managements then-current views and assumptions regarding future events, developments and operating performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or regulations. 39 Table of Contents Forward-looking statements contained in this report may include, but are not limited to, statements about: future business, social and environmental performance, goals and measures; our anticipated growth prospects and trends in markets and industries relevant to our business; business and investment plans; expectations about our ability to maintain or enhance our leadership position in the markets in which we participate; future consumer demand and behavior; future products and technology, and the expected availability and benefits of such products and technology; development of regulatory frameworks for current and future technology; projected cost and pricing trends; future production capacity and product supply; potential future benefits and competitive advantages associated with our technologies and architecture and the data we have accumulated; the future purchase, use and availability of products, components and services supplied by third parties, including third-party IP and manufacturing services; uncertain events or assumptions, including statements relating to our estimated vehicle production and market opportunity, potential production volumes associated with design wins and other characterizations of future events or circumstances; future responses to and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic; availability, uses, sufficiency and cost of capital and capital resources, including expected returns to stockholders such as dividends, and the expected timing of future dividends; tax- and accounting-related expectations; and other statements described in this report and under the sections entitled Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business, in our 2022 Form 10-K. The risk factors discussed under the section entitled Risk Factors included in our 2022 Form 10-K could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. There also may be other risks that are currently unknown to us or that we are unable to predict at this time.