Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included the Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, such as statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations, intentions, and projections. Our actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those described in or implied by these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should carefully read the Risk Factors section, the Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements as well as the risks and uncertainties set forth in our other SEC filings to gain an understanding of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. All amounts in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are in thousands, except numbers of shares and per share amounts. Overview Based in Irvine, California, Mobix Labs designs, develops and sells components and systems for advanced wireless and wired connectivity, radio frequency (RF), switching and electromagnetic interference (EMI) filtering technologies. Our solutions are used in the consumer commercial, industrial, automotive, medical, aerospace, defense and other markets. To enhance our product portfolio, we also intend to pursue acquisitions of companies with existing revenue which can be scaled, and which possess technologies that accelerate the speed, accessibility, and efficiency of disruptive or more efficient communications solutions, and which will also allow us to expand into strategically aligned industries. Our wireless systems solutions include products for advanced RF and millimeter wave (mmWave) 5G communications, mmWave imaging, software defined radio and custom RF integrated circuits (ICs) targeting the commercial, industrial, and defense and aerospace sectors. Our interconnect products, including EMI filter inserts and filtered and non-filtered connectors, are designed for and are currently used in aerospace, military, defense and medical applications. Our True Xero active optical cables (AOCs) are designed to meet customer needs for high-quality active optical cable solutions at an affordable price. These innovative technologies are designed for large and rapidly growing markets where there is increasing demand for higher performance communication and filtering systems which utilize an expanding mix of both wireless and connectivity technologies. On December 21, 2023, we consummated the merger pursuant to the business combination agreement, dated November 15, 2022 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the Business Combination Agreement), by and among Chavant, CLAY Merger Sub II, Inc., a Delaware corporation and newly formed, wholly-owned direct subsidiary of Chavant (Merger Sub), and Mobix Labs, Inc. (Legacy Mobix), a Delaware corporation, pursuant to which, among other things, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Mobix, with Legacy Mobix surviving the merger as a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of Chavant (together with the other transactions related thereto, the Merger). In connection with the consummation of the Merger (the Closing), Chavant changed its name from Chavant Capital Acquisition Corp. to Mobix Labs, Inc. (the Company) and Legacy Mobix changed its name from Mobix Labs, Inc. to Mobix Labs Operations, Inc. Throughout this discussion, unless otherwise noted or otherwise suggested by context, all references to we, us or our refer to Legacy Mobix prior to the consummation of the Merger, and to the Company and its subsidiaries after the consummation of the Merger. We were founded with the goal of simplifying the development and maximizing the performance of wireless mmWave 5G products by designing and developing high performance, cost-effective and ultra-compact semiconductor components and solutions used for signal processing applications in wireless products. Since our inception, our corporate strategy has evolved to encompass the pursuit of acquisitions in diverse industry sectors, including aerospace, military, defense, medical and high reliability (HiRel) technology, as part of our commitment to enhancing communication services. We have developed and/or acquired an extensive intellectual property (IP) portfolio comprised of patents and trade secrets that are critical to commercializing our communication products and communications technologies. In leveraging our proprietary technology, we aim to scale the growth of revenue for our products by serving large and rapidly growing markets where we believe there are increasing demands for higher performance communication technologies, including both wireless and wired connectivity systems. We are actively pursuing customer engagements with manufacturers of wireless communications, aerospace, military, defense, medical and HiRel products. 33 In 2021, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets including IP of Cosemi Technologies, Inc. (Cosemi), an Irvine, California-based global supplier of high-speed connectivity solutions. The acquired products and IP included a broad range of AOCs and optical engines that deliver optimal connectivity to a wide range of applicationsincluding home entertainment, gaming, augmented reality and virtual reality, video conferencing, medical, mobile devices and monitorsand built the foundation for our current connectivity business. We believe the patented cable technology and AOC optical chip solutions from Cosemi along with our innovative wireless semiconductor technologies provide more opportunities in the wireless C-Band and mmWave 5G market as the need for faster, more reliable data transmission becomes ever more apparent, whether it is for the data center, infrastructure, home entertainment or consumer electronics market. Recent Developments April 2025 Offering On April 4, 2025, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the 2025 Securities Purchase Agreement) with an institutional accredited investor. Pursuant to the 2025 Securities Purchase Agreement, on April 7, 2025 we issued 3,850,000 shares of Class A common stock and a pre-funded warrant to purchase up to 1,026,860 shares of our Class A Common Stock in a registered direct offering priced at-the-market under Nasdaq rules (the Registered Direct Offering). The public offering price for each share was $0.8202 and the public offering price for each pre-funded warrant was $0.8201. In addition, in a concurrent private placement (together with the Registered Direct Offering, the April 2025 Offering), we issued unregistered common stock warrants (the Common Warrants) to purchase up to 4,876,860 shares of our Class A Common Stock. The pre-funded warrant has an exercise price of $0.0001 per share, is exercisable immediately and may be exercised at any time. The Common Warrants have an exercise price of $0.8202 and became exercisable beginning on the effective date of stockholder approval, which was obtained on May 30, 2025 and will expire on May 30, 2030. The net proceeds to us from the April 2025 Offering were $3,645, after payment of the placement agents fees of $355. In connection with the April 2025 Offering, we also amended the outstanding PIPE Common Warrants, as discussed below under July 2024 Private Placement. We also issued the placement agent warrants to purchase an aggregate of 682,760 shares of Class A Common Stock. These warrants have an exercise price of $0.8202 per share, and became exercisable beginning on the effective date of stockholder approval, which was obtained on May 30, 2025, and will expire on April 4, 2030 and are not transferable prior to October 1, 2025. In the 2025 Securities Purchase Agreement, we agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to issue, enter into any agreement to issue or announce the issuance or proposed issuance of any shares of Class A Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of Class A Common Stock or file any registration statement or prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto until sixty days after the stockholder approval date, subject to certain exceptions. In addition, we agreed not to effect or enter into an agreement to effect any issuance of Class A Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of Class A Common Stock involving a variable rate transaction (as defined in the 2025 Securities Purchase Agreement) until August 29, 2025, subject to certain exceptions. Nasdaq Delinquency Notice On April 28, 2025, we received a delinquency notification letter (the MVLS Notice) from Nasdaqs Listing Qualifications Staff (the Staff) due to the non-compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(2) as a result of our failure to maintain a minimum Market Value of Listed Securities (MVLS) of $35 million (the MVLS Requirement). The MVLS Notice stated that, as of its date, the MVLS was below $35 million for 30 consecutive business days. On May 20, 2025, the Company received a letter from Nasdaq notifying the Company that they were in compliance with the MVLS Requirement. 34 In addition, on April 28, 2025, we received a delinquency notification letter (the Bid Price Notice) from the Staff due to the non-compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2), which requires listed securities to maintain a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share (the Minimum Bid Price Requirement). The Bid Price Notice stated that, as of its date, the stock price of our Class A Common Stock was below $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. The Bid Price Notice has no immediate effect on the listing or trading of the shares of Class A Common Stock on Nasdaq. We have until October 27, 2025 to regain compliance. If we are not in compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement by October 27, 2025, we may qualify for a second 180 calendar day compliance period. However, if we fail to timely regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement during the second 180 calendar day period our shares will be subject to delisting from Nasdaq. July 2024 Private Placement On July 22, 2024, we entered into a securities purchase agreement (the Securities Purchase Agreement) with an institutional accredited investor in connection with a private placement (the Private Placement). Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, on July 24, 2024, we issued an unregistered pre-funded warrant (the Pre-Funded Warrant) to purchase up to 2,877,698 unregistered shares of our Class A Common Stock. We also issued unregistered warrants to purchase an aggregate of 5,755,396 shares of our Class A Common Stock (PIPE Common Warrants). We received gross proceeds from the Private Placement of $4,000, before payment of fees and expenses to the placement agent of $415. In August 2024, the investor exercised the Pre-Funded Warrant in full, for net cash proceeds to us of $3. The PIPE Common Warrants are comprised of Series A Warrants to purchase up to 2,877,698 shares of Class A Common Stock (the Series A Warrants) and Series B Warrants to purchase up to 2,877,698 shares of Class A Common Stock (the Series B Warrants). As part of the April 2025 Offering, we amended the outstanding Series A Warrants and Series B Warrants to reduce the exercise price from $1.39 per share to $0.8202 per share, which became exercisable beginning on the effective date of stockholder approval, which was obtained on May 30, 2025. We also extended the term of the Series B Warrants from January 3, 2026 to April 3, 2026. The term of the Series A Warrants remains unchanged and will expire on January 3, 2030. In connection with the Private Placement, we paid the placement agent fees and expenses of $415 and issued the placement agent warrants to purchase an aggregate of 201,439 shares of our Class A Common Stock (the Placement Agent Warrants). The Placement Agent Warrants have an exercise price of $1.7375 per share, became exercisable beginning on the effective date of stockholder approval, which was obtained on January 3, 2025, and will expire on January 3, 2030. Moreover, upon any exercise for cash of the PIPE Common Warrants, we will pay the placement agent cash fees aggregating 8% of the gross proceeds received from the exercise of the PIPE Common Warrants and will also issue to the placement agent additional Placement Agent Warrants to purchase a number of shares of our Class A Common Stock equal to 7.0% of the aggregate number of shares of our Class A Common Stock issued upon such exercise of the PIPE Common Warrants. Acquisition of RaGE Systems Inc. On May 21, 2024, we completed the previously announced acquisition of RaGE Systems. RaGE Systems designs, develops and manufactures wireless systems solutions, including products for 5G communications, mmWave imaging, and software defined radio targeting the commercial, industrial, and defense and aerospace sectors. We believe the acquisition of RaGE Systems expands our expertise in wireless communications and will allow us to deliver solutions that address a wider variety of applications and markets. Aggregate consideration for the acquisition of RaGE Systems consisted of 3,214,045 shares of our Class A Common Stock, having a fair value of $7,682 at the closing date, and $2,000 in cash. We also entered into employment agreements with each of the RaGE Systems stockholders. The RaGE Systems stockholders will also be entitled to receive possible earnout payments of up to $8,000 over eight fiscal quarters, payable in a combination of cash and shares of our Class A Common Stock, based upon the satisfaction of certain financial metrics and continued employment with us. The RaGE Systems business combination agreement also provides the RaGE Systems stockholders with piggy-back registration rights, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions. 35 Acquisition of EMI Solutions, Inc. On December 18, 2023, we completed the acquisition of EMI Solutions when we acquired all of the issued and outstanding common shares of EMI Solutions. EMI Solutions is a manufacturer of interconnect products, including electromagnetic interference filtering products for aerospace, military, defense and medical applications. We believe the acquisition of EMI Solutions complements our existing product offerings, expanded our customer base and allows us to deliver solutions that address a wider variety of applications and markets. Consideration for the acquisition of EMI Solutions consisted of 964,912 shares of Legacy Mobix common stock and $2,200 in cash. We valued the common stock at $8,856, based on the fair value of the Legacy Mobix common stock at the time of the acquisition. Financing Activities During the nine months ended June 30, 2025, we had additional financing activity, consisting of the issuance of notes payable, agreements for the sale and purchase of future receipts and sales of shares of our Class A Common Stock. See Liquidity and Capital Resources, below, and our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. The Merger We accounted for the Merger as a reverse recapitalization. Under this method of accounting, Chavant is treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. This determination was primarily based on holders of Legacy Mobix capital stock comprising a majority of the voting power of our common stock upon consummation of the Merger and having the ability to nominate the majority of our board of directors, Legacy Mobix senior management comprising our senior management, and Legacy Mobix operations comprising our ongoing operations. Accordingly, for accounting purposes, our financial statements represent a continuation of the financial statements of Legacy Mobix with the Merger being treated as the equivalent of Legacy Mobix issuing shares for the net assets of Chavant, accompanied by a recapitalization. We recognized the net assets of Chavant as of the Closing at historical cost, with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. Our operations prior to the Merger are presented as those of Legacy Mobix and the accumulated deficit of Legacy Mobix has been carried forward after Closing. All issued and outstanding securities of Chavant at the time of the Closing were treated as issuances of securities by us upon the consummation of the Merger. As a result of the Merger, we raised gross proceeds of $21,014, including the contribution of $1,264 of cash held in Chavants trust account and the $19,750 private investment in public equity (PIPE) at $10.00 per share of Chavants Class A Common Stock. Our Class A Common Stock and Public Warrants (Public Warrants) began trading on Nasdaq under the symbols MOBX and MOBXW, respectively, on December 22, 2023. 36 Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months and Nine Months Ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 (dollars in thousands) Three months ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % Net revenue $ 2,350 $ 2,058 $ 292 14 % Cost of revenue 1,001 1,327 (326 ) (25 )% Gross profit 1,349 731 618 85 % Operating expenses: Research and development 486 1,369 (883 ) (64 )% Selling, general and administrative 8,208 8,710 (502 ) (6 )% Impairment of long-lived assets 725 725 nm Loss from operations (8,070 ) (9,348 ) 1,278 (14 )% Interest expense 547 127 420 331 % Change in fair value of earnout liability (210 ) (661 ) 451 (68 )% Change in fair value of warrants (612 ) 58 (670 ) nm Change in fair value of PIPE make-whole liability 310 (310 ) (100 )% Private placement costs expensed 443 443 nm Other non-operating losses, net 36 2 34 nm Loss before income taxes (8,274 ) (9,184 ) 910 (10 )% Income tax benefit (2 ) (1,505 ) 1,503 (100 )% Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (8,272 ) $ (7,679 ) $ (593 ) 8 % nm indicates amount is not meaningful. 37 (dollars in thousands) Nine months ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 $ % Net revenue $ 8,030 $ 3,488 $ 4,542 130 % Cost of revenue 3,974 2,608 1,366 52 % Gross profit 4,056 880 3,176 361 % Operating expenses: Research and development 1,816 4,328 (2,512 ) (58 )% Selling, general and administrative 32,043 31,731 312 1 % Impairment of long-lived assets 725 725 nm Loss from operations (30,528 ) (35,179 ) 4,651 (13 )% Interest expense 1,032 1,232 (200 ) (16 )% Change in fair value of earnout liability (490 ) (30,599 ) 30,109 (98 )% Change in fair value of warrants (1,237 ) 12 (1,249 ) nm Change in fair value of PIPE make-whole liability (122 ) 122 (100 )% Merger-related transaction costs expensed 4,009 (4,009 ) (100 )% Private placement costs expensed 443 443 nm Other non-operating losses, net 135 1,587 (1,452 ) (91 )% Loss before income taxes (30,411 ) (11,298 ) (19,113 ) 169 % Income tax benefit (9 ) (2,801 ) 2,792 (99 )% Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (30,402 ) $ (8,497 ) $ (21,905 ) 258 % nm indicates amount is not meaningful. Net Revenue We derive our net revenue primarily from product sales to equipment manufacturers. We recognize product revenue when we satisfy performance obligations under the terms of our contracts and upon transfer of control when title transfers (either upon shipment to or receipt by the customer, as determined by the contractual shipping terms of the contract), net of accruals for estimated sales returns and allowances (which were not material for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024). Sales and other taxes we collect, if any, are excluded from net revenue. We include shipping and handling fees we bill to customers as part of net revenue. We include shipping and handling costs associated with outbound freight in cost of revenue. Our net revenue fluctuates based on a variety of factors, including the timing of the receipt of orders from our customers, product mix, competition, global economic conditions, and other factors. Our net revenue was $2,350 for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $2,058 for the three months ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $292 or 14%. The increase principally reflects increased sales of our interconnect products and the addition of sales of our wireless systems solutions, which we acquired in our May 2024 acquisition of RaGE Systems, partly offset by lower sales of AOCs. For the nine months ended June 30, 2025, our net revenue was $8,030 compared to $3,488 for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $4,542 or 130%. The increase principally reflects the addition of sales of our wireless systems solutions (acquired in our May 2024 acquisition of RaGE Systems) and increased sales of our interconnect products (acquired in our December 2023 acquisition of EMI Solutions). 38 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes costs of materials, contract manufacturing services for the assembly, testing and shipping products, inbound freight, amortization of acquired developed technology, inventory obsolescence charges and other product-related costs. Cost of revenue also includes employee compensation and benefits (including stock-based compensation) of employees engaged in engineering services or the manufacture or sourcing of products, facility costs and depreciation. Cost of revenue was $1,001 for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $1,327 for the three months ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $326 or 25%. The change principally reflects lower sales of our AOCs, as discussed above, including lower amortization expense for AOC-related intangible assets which the Company impaired subsequent to June 30, 2024. Cost of revenue was $3,974 for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $2,608 for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $1,366 or 52%. The increase principally reflects the addition of sales of our wireless systems solutions and increased sales of interconnect products. These increases were partly offset by the impact of lower sales of AOCs, including lower amortization expense for AOC-related intangible assets which the Company impaired subsequent to June 30, 2024. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses represent costs of our product design and development activities, including employee compensation and benefits (including stock-based compensation), outside services, design tools, supplies, facility costs, depreciation and amortization of acquired developed technology. We expense all research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expenses were $486 for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $1,369 for the three months ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $883 or 64%. The decrease principally reflects lower costs for outside services, lower employee compensation and benefits and lower stock-based compensation expense resulting from the workforce and cost reduction actions taken during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2024. Research and development expenses were $1,816 for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $4,328 for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $2,512 or 58%. The decrease principally reflects lower costs for outside services, lower stock-based compensation expense and lower employee compensation and benefits resulting from the workforce and cost reduction actions taken during the fiscal year ended September 30, 2024. These decreases were partly offset by the addition of research and development expenses of the businesses we acquired during fiscal year 2024. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily include employee compensation and benefits (including stock-based compensation) of executive and administrative staff including human resources, accounting, information technology, sales and marketing, outside professional and legal fees, insurance, advertising and promotional programs, travel and entertainment, and facility costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $8,208 for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $8,710 for the three months ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $502 or 6%. The decrease principally reflects lower costs under the RaGE Earnout, lower costs for outside legal and accounting services and lower insurance cost. These amounts were largely offset by higher stock-based compensation expense. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $32,043 for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $31,731 for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $312 or 1%. The increase principally reflects increased stock-based compensation expense, the addition of selling, general and administrative expenses of the businesses we acquired during fiscal 2024 and losses on the disposal of assets. These amounts were partly offset by lower costs for outside professional fees and lower compensation and benefits. 39 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets In March 2025, the Company vacated a leased 19,436 square foot office in Irvine, California and in April 2025 the lease was terminated. As a result, during the three months ended June 30, 2025, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $725 to reduce the carrying value of this asset group to its estimated fair value. See Note 12Leases, of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of cash and non-cash interest related to our related and unrelated party promissory notes, notes payable and convertible notes. Interest expense was $547 for the three months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $127 for the three months ended June 30, 2024, an increase of $420 or 331%. The increase principally reflects higher outstanding borrowings and higher interest rates on borrowings during the three months ended June 30, 2025. Interest expense was $1,032 for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 compared to $1,232 for the nine months ended June 30, 2024, a decrease of $200 or 16%. The decrease principally reflects higher costs in the nine months ended June 30, 2024 for the value of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock that we issued in connection with borrowings, which were largely offset by higher outstanding borrowings and higher interest rates on borrowings during the three months ended June 30, 2025. Change in Fair Value of Earnout Liability In connection with the Merger, certain Legacy Mobix stockholders and certain holders of Legacy Mobix stock options will be entitled to receive an additional aggregate 3,500,000 shares of our Class A Common Stock based on the achievement of trading price targets following the Closing over a seven-year earnout period. We account for the Earnout Shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determine the number of Earnout Shares to which the earnout recipients will be entitled include events that are not solely indexed to our common stock, and we remeasure the earnout liability to its estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. Additional information relating to the earnout liability can be found in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. We estimated the fair value of the earnout liability as of the Closing of the Merger at $33,559. As of June 30, 2025, none of the conditions for the issuance of any earnout shares had been achieved and we adjusted the carrying amount of the earnout liability to its estimated fair value of $1,190. As a result of changes in the estimated fair value of the liability, we recognized non-cash gains of $210 and $661, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 and non-cash gains of $490 and $30,599, respectively, for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. The changes in the estimated fair value of the earnout liability are principally due to changes in price of our Class A Common Stock during the respective periods. The fair value of the earnout liability is based on a number of factors, including changes in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in the market price of our Class A Common Stock, and may experience significant fluctuations in the future. Such price fluctuations will increase or decrease the value of the earnout liability, and we may be required to recognize additional losses or gains in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss, the amounts of which may be substantial. Change in Fair Value of Warrants We account for the PIPE Common Warrants, the Common Warrants and the Private Warrants as liabilities because they do not meet the derivative scope exception for contracts in our own stock. We estimate the aggregate fair value of the 5,755,396 PIPE Common Warrants and the 4,876,860 Common Warrants using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. As of June 30, 2025, we adjusted the carrying amount of the liability for the PIPE Common Warrants and the Common Warrants to its estimated fair value of $3,456. As a result of changes in the fair value of the PIPE Common Warrants and the Common Warrants, for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2025 we recognized non-cash gains of $600 and $1,207, respectively. 40 At the time of Closing, we estimated the aggregate fair value of the 3,000,000 Private Warrants using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model and recognized a liability of $150. As of June 30, 2025, all of the Private Warrants remained outstanding and we adjusted the carrying amount of the liability to its estimated fair value of $300. As a result of changes in the estimated fair value of the liability, we recognized non-cash gains (losses) of $12 and $68, respectively, for the three months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024 and non-cash gains (losses) of $30 and $(412), respectively, for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. The gains and losses are included in Change in fair value of warrants in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Additional information relating to the PIPE Common Warrants and the Private Warrants can be found in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. The fair value of the PIPE Common Warrants and the Private Warrants is based on a number of factors, including changes in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in the market price of our Class A Common Stock, and may experience significant fluctuations in the future. Such price fluctuations will increase or decrease the value of the PIPE Common Warrants and the Private Warrants, and we may be required to recognize additional losses or gains in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss, the amounts of which may be substantial. Change in Fair Value of PIPE Make-Whole Liability In connection with the Merger, we agreed to issue additional shares of our Class A Common Stock to the holders of 2,454,737 shares of our Class A Common Stock in the event that the volume-weighted average price per share of our Class A Common Stock in the event that the VWAP per share of the Class A Common Stock during a specified adjustment period is less than $10.00 per share. The specified adjustment period ended on August 30, 2024 and the Company issued 1,052,029 shares of its Class A Common Stock in settlement of the liability for the Make-Whole Shares. We accounted for the Make-Whole Shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determined the number of Make-Whole Shares issuable included events that were not solely indexed to our common stock. At the time of Closing, we estimated the aggregate fair value of the liability for the Make-Whole Shares using a Monte Carlo simulation model and recorded a liability of $2,071. As a result of subsequent changes in the fair value of the liability, we recorded non-cash gains (losses) of $(310) and $122, respectively, for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2024, which are included in Change in fair value of PIPE make-whole liability in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Private Placement Costs Expensed Private placement costs of $443 for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2025 represent costs incurred in connection with the April 2025 Offering. The costs consist of outside professional fees and the value of warrants to purchase shares of our Class A Common Stock issued to the placement agent. We allocated the total costs among the liability-classified and equity-classified securities we issued in the April 2025 Offering. The portion of such costs allocated to liability-classified securities is included in Private Placement Costs Expensed in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Additional information relating to the April 2025 Offering can be found in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. Other Non-Operating Losses, Net For the three months ended June 30, 2025, other non-operating losses, net of $36 consist of a loss from the increase in the fair value of a derivative liability and a loss on the settlement of a note payable in shares of our Class A Common Stock. For the nine months ended June 30, 2025, other non-operating losses, net of $135 principally consist of net losses recognized upon the settlement of liabilities in shares of our Class A Common Stock. For the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2024, other non-operating losses, net principally consist of commitment and other fees of $1,575 payable under the committed equity facility. 41 Income Tax Benefit We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax laws is recognized in the results of operations in the period the new laws are enacted. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amounts of our deferred tax assets unless it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized. For the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2025, our income tax benefit differs from an amount calculated based on statutory tax rates principally due to our recording a valuation allowance against the net operating losses we generated during the period because we did not expect that the deferred tax asset arising from our pretax book losses would be realized in the future. In connection with our December 2023 acquisition of EMI Solutions and our May 2024 acquisition of Rage Systems, during the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2024 we recognized additional deferred tax liabilities of $1,582 and $2,666, respectively, associated with acquired intangible assets. Based on the availability of these tax attributes, we determined that we expect to realize a greater portion of our existing deferred tax assets and for the three months and nine months ended June 30, 2024 we recognized income tax benefits of $1,507 and $2,803 for the resulting reduction of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary use of cash is to fund operating expenses, working capital requirements, debt service obligations, capital expenditures and other investments. We have incurred operating losses and negative cash flows as a result of our ongoing investment in product development and other operating expenses we incur. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations associated with research and development expenses, selling, general, and administrative expenses and capital expenditures necessary to expand our operations, product offerings, and customer base with the ultimate goals of growing our business and achieving profitability in the future. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our unaudited condensed consolidated cash flows for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024: Nine months ended June 30, Change 2025 2024 $ Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,600 ) $ (14,767 ) $ 9,167 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 11 (1,108 ) 1,119 Net cash provided by financing activities 5,563 15,991 (10,428 ) Net increase in cash (26 ) 116 $ (142 ) Cash, beginning of period 266 89 Cash, end of period $ 240 $ 205 Operating Activities For the nine months ended June 30, 2025, net cash used in operating activities was $5,600, which included the impact of our net loss of $30,402, offset by net non-cash charges of $21,817 and net decreases in working capital items of $2,985. The net non-cash charges principally consisted of stock-based compensation expense of $20,256 for stock options and restricted stock units and $1,591 of depreciation and amortization expense and a $725 loss on the impairment of long-lived assets. The net working capital decrease principally consisted of increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses together with decreases in accounts receivable and inventory. 42 For the nine months ended June 30, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $14,767, which included the impact of our net loss of $8,497 and net non-cash credits of $9,347, partly offset by net decreases in working capital items of $3,077. The net non-cash credits principally consisted of the $30,599 gain on the change in fair value of the earnout liability and a deferred income tax benefit of $2,803, partially offset by stock-based compensation expense of $17,768, $4,009 of Merger related transaction costs expensed, $1,474 of depreciation and amortization expense and $891 of expense for the issuance of warrants in connection with borrowings. The net working capital decrease principally consists of an increase in accounts payable. Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $11 for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 consisted of proceeds from the sale of property and equipment, partially offset by payments for the acquisition of property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities of $1,108 for the nine months ended June 30, 2024 principally consisted of payments for the acquisitions EMI Solutions and RaGE Systems, net of acquired cash. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2025 of $5,563 consisted of $3,645 in proceeds from the sale of common stock and warrants in the April 2025 Offering, $600 from the issuance of common stock, $2,575 in proceeds under agreements for the purchase and sale of future receipts and the issuance of notes payable and proceeds of $17 from the exercise of warrants to purchase shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock. These amounts were partially offset by principal payments on notes payable of $1,100 (including payments of $445 on notes payablerelated parties) and the payment of deferred consideration of $174 for the acquisition of a business. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended June 30, 2024 of $15,991 consisted of the $21,014 proceeds from the Merger and PIPE, $3,334 in proceeds from the issuance of common stock, $971 in proceeds from issuance of notes payable and convertible notes and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $225. These amounts were partially offset by the payment of merger-related transaction costs of $6,946 and $2,608 of principal payments on notes payable (including payments of $1,298 on notes payablerelated parties). Liquidity As of June 30, 2025, our cash balance was $240 compared to $266 at September 30, 2024. We had a working capital deficit of $23,020 as of June 30, 2025 compared to a working capital deficit of $20,836 at September 30, 2024. As of June 30, 2025, our debt consists of notes payable with an aggregate amount of $1,980 and 7% promissory notesrelated parties with an aggregate principal amount of $2,380. Of these amounts, one note having a principal amount of $125 has reached its maturity date and is currently due. The remainder require weekly or monthly payments in varying amounts through September 2026. Our total liabilities as of June 30, 2025 were $34,130 compared to $33,558 as of September 30, 2024. The increase in our total liabilities is principally due to a $1,382 increase in notes payable. Other commitments include (i) non-cancelable operating leases for equipment, office facilities and other property containing future minimum lease payments totaling $1,519 payable over the next two years, (ii) unpaid commitment and other fees of $1,575 payable in connection with the committed equity facility, (iii) deferred purchase consideration of $2,323 related to our acquisitions of EMI Solutions and RaGE Systems which is currently due, and (iv) potential payments of up to $4,000 under the RaGE Earnout, payable by March 2026. 43 Going Concern We incurred a loss from operations of $30,528 for the nine months ended June 30, 2025, and we incurred losses from operations of $46,395 and $35,544 for the years ended September 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As of June 30, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $134,859. We have historically financed our operations through the issuance and sale of equity securities and the issuance of debt. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future and will need to raise additional debt or equity financing to fund our continuing operations, product development plans and capital expenditure requirements, to service our debt obligations and to make strategic investments. We believe that there is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern as we currently do not have adequate liquidity to meet our operating needs and satisfy our obligations beyond the next approximately ninety days. While we will seek to raise additional capital, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, to provide the necessary interim funding to continue our operations and satisfy our obligations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our existing stockholders may result. Any equity securities we issue may also provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, such debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of preferred and common stockholders. The terms of debt securities or borrowings may impose significant restrictions on our operations. The capital markets have in the past, and may in the future, experience periods of volatility that could impact the availability and cost of equity and debt financing. In addition, potential future increases in federal fund rates set by the Federal Reserve, which serve as a benchmark for rates on borrowing, could adversely impact the cost or availability of debt financing. If we are unable to obtain additional financing, or if such transactions are successfully completed but do not provide adequate financing, we will not be able to continue operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a basis that assumes we will continue as a going concern and which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the ordinary course of business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require that we make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, current economic and industry conditions and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our most critical accounting estimates include the assumptions we use in the determination of the fair value of the earnout liability, the fair value of common stock, stock-based compensation, the fair value of liability-classified warrants, the provision for income taxes, the accounting for business combinations and the measurement of definite-lived intangible assets and goodwill. Fair Value of Earnout Liability We account for the earnout shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determine the number of earnout shares to which the earnout recipients will be entitled include events that are not solely indexed to our common stock. We remeasure the earnout liability to its estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. 44 We estimate the fair value of the earnout liability using a Monte Carlo simulation model that utilizes significant assumptions, including volatility, expected term and risk-free rate that determine the probability of achieving the earnout conditions. The following table summarizes the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the earnout liability at the respective dates: June 30, 2025 September 30, 2024 Stock price $ 0.77 $ 1.06 Expected volatility 80.0 % 70.0 % Risk-free rate 3.9 % 3.6 % Contractual term 6.5 years 7.2 years Fair Value of Common Stock The fair value of our common stock affects the accounting for, and measurement of, a number of transactions, including awards of stock-based compensation, sales of our common and preferred stock or warrants to purchase our common stock and business combinations. For periods subsequent to the Merger, we determine the fair value of our common stock based on quoted market prices. For periods prior to the Merger, there was no public market for our common stock and we determined the fair value of our common stock considering a number of objective and subjective factors, including: third-party valuations of our common stock, the valuation of comparable companies, sales of our common stock to outside investors in arms-length transactions, our forecasted financial performance, operational developments and milestones, the lack of marketability of our common stock, the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, and the general and industry specific economic outlook, among other factors. We determined the fair value of our common stock in accordance with applicable elements of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants guide, Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation. The assumptions underlying our valuations represented our best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of judgment. As a result, if factors or expected outcomes had changed, or if we had used significantly different assumptions or estimates, our stock-based compensation expense and equity-based valuations or the value of the business we acquired could have been materially different. Stock-Based Compensation Our stock-based compensation awards include stock options and restricted stock units. In some cases, other equity transactions, such as the sale of warrants to purchase our common stock are accounted for as equity-classified awards granted to employees. In each case, we must determine the fair value of the equity-based awards. We estimate the fair value of stock options and warrants to purchase our common stock using the Black-Scholes-Merton (Black-Scholes) option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing model considers several variables and assumptions in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards. These variables include: the per share fair value of the underlying common stock; the exercise price; the risk-free interest rate; the expected term; expected stock price volatility over the expected term; and the expected annual dividend yield. We recognize the fair value of each stock option award as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is typically four years. We have elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and initially record stock-based compensation expense assuming all option holders will complete the requisite service period. If an employee forfeits an award because they fail to complete the requisite service period, we will reverse previously recognized stock-based compensation expense in the period the award is forfeited. 45 Our restricted stock units entitle the holder to receive a number of shares of our common stock. The majority of our restricted stock units are subject to both service-based vesting conditions and performance conditions. We establish the fair value of each restricted stock unit based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying shares of our common stock. Our accounting for restricted stock units also requires that we evaluate the probability of achievement of applicable performance conditions. When we conclude that the achievement of a performance condition is not probable, we do not recognize any compensation cost for the restricted stock unit. We continually reevaluate the probability of achievement of performance conditions. If we subsequently determine the achievement of a performance condition is probable, we will be required to record a catch-up of previously unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, subject to any applicable time-based vesting. We have also issued warrants to purchase common stock to employees and service providers in exchange for services to us and we determined that those warrants should be accounted for as equity-classified awards. We determined the fair value of these warrants at the date of issuance using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, based on the variables and assumptions discussed above, and recognized the fair value as stock-based compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. We classify stock-based compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss in the same manner in which the award recipients salary and related costs are classified or in which the award recipients service payments are classified. In future periods, we expect stock-based compensation expense to increase, due in part to our existing unrecognized stock-based compensation expense and as we grant additional stock-based awards to continue to attract and retain employees. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. We recognize the effect of a change in tax laws on deferred tax assets and liabilities in our results of operations in the period the new laws are enacted. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets unless it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process regarding recognition and measurement. We recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the local taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. We measure the amount of tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions based on the largest benefit greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Changes in recognition or measurement of an uncertain tax position are reflected in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss in the period in which the change in estimate occurs, based on new information not previously available. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Accounting for business combinations requires that we make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we use to be reasonable and appropriate, they are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain acquired assets may include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows including revenue growth rate assumptions from product sales, customer contracts and acquired technologies, the expected costs to develop acquired technology into commercially viable products and the estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, including assumptions associated with the technology migration curve and expected selling, general and administrative costs. We derive the discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital analysis adjusted to reflect inherent risks. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that could affect either the accuracy or validity of these assumptions, estimates or actual results. 46 Intangible Assets and Goodwill We have definite-lived acquisition-related intangible assets consisting of developed technology, customer relationships, tradenames and backlog. We record amortization expense associated with each definite-lived acquisition-related intangible asset based on its estimated useful life. We also review our acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. This includes our regular review of our operating performance for indicators of impairment. Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review include a significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, or a significant change in the manner of the use of the acquisition-related intangible assets. We perform impairment testing at the asset group level that represents the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Recoverability of the acquisition-related intangible asset is determined by comparing the forecasted undiscounted cash flows attributable to such acquisition-related intangible asset, including any cash flows upon their eventual disposition, to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the acquisition-related intangible asset exceeds the forecasted undiscounted cash flows, then the acquisition-related intangible asset is written down to its fair value. We also have goodwill totaling $16,066 as of June 30, 2025, which represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration of an acquired business over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but we test goodwill for impairment at a reporting unit level on an annual basis on July 31, or more frequently if circumstances change or an event occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. We assess all relevant qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, a quantitative goodwill impairment test is not necessary. If the assessment of all relevant qualitative factors indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we would perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. The quantitative impairment test for goodwill consists of a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value, including the goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we will recognize an impairment loss equal to the amount of the excess, limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Our impairment tests require the use of judgment, including the identification of, and assignment of assets and liabilities to, asset groups and/or reporting units and the determination of fair values of asset groups or reporting units. We also must make significant assumptions and estimates, including the amount and timing of future cash flows, discount rates, asset fair values and the expected useful lives of the acquisition-related intangible assets. To make these judgments and estimates, we may use internal undiscounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices (if available) or other available data. We did not recognize any impairment charges on intangible assets or goodwill during the nine months ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. However, future cash flows may vary from what was expected, or assumptions and estimates we use in the fair value calculations may change. Any such changes in assumptions or estimates could change the estimates of future cash flows we use to estimate fair values and could result in a decline in the estimated fair value of related assets. Such a decline in our estimates of the fair values of assets may result in future impairment charges. Emerging Growth Company We are an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act, and we will take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. 47 Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. Smaller Reporting Company Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company, as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which (i) the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $250 million as of the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or (ii) our annual revenue exceeded $100 million during such completed fiscal year and the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. If we continue to be a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from these certain reduced disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies.