ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Chavant Capital Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations, estimates and assumptions concerning events and financial trends that may affect our future operating results or financial position. Actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in the sections 35 Table of Contents entitled Item 1A. Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on March 19, 2021 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenue to date. Based on our business activities, the Company is a shell company as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), because we have no operations and nominal assets consisting almost entirely of cash. On July 22, 2021, we consummated our IPO of 8,000,000 Units. Each Unit consists of one ordinary share and three-fourths of one redeemable Public Warrant. Each whole Public Warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share. The Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds, before expenses, of $80,000,000. Prior to the consummation of the IPO, on April 7, 2021, the Company issued 2,875,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 (the Founder Shares), for which the Sponsor paid $25,000. On June 25, 2021, the Sponsor sold an aggregate of 422,581 of such Founder Shares to the underwriters for a purchase price of $3,675. On July 19, 2021, the Company reduced the offering size of the IPO and 575,000 Founder Shares were surrendered to the Company for cancellation for no consideration, resulting in 2,300,000 Founder Shares outstanding. On September 5, 2021, the underwriters over-allotment option expired unexercised, resulting in the forfeiture of an additional 300,000 Founder Shares. As a result, a total of 2,000,000 Founder Shares remain outstanding. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, pursuant to the Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated July 19, 2021, by and between the Company and the Sponsor, and the Representative Designees Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated July 19, 2021, by and between the Company and the Representative Designees, the Company completed the private sale of 3,400,000 warrants (the Private Warrants and, together with the Public Warrants, the Warrants) to the Sponsor and the Representative Designees at a purchase price of $1.00 per Private Warrant, generating gross proceeds to the Company of $3,400,000 (the Private Placement). The Private Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants included as part of the Units sold in the IPO, except that the Private Warrants, so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, (i) are not redeemable by the Company, (ii) may not (including the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the Private Warrants), subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold until 30 days after the completion of the Companys initial business combination, (iii) may be exercised on a cashless basis and (iv) are entitled to registration rights. No underwriting discounts and commissions were paid with respect to such sale. The issuance of the Private Warrants was made pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. After deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and incurred offering costs, a total of $80,000,000 of the proceeds from the IPO and the proceeds of the sale of the Private Warrants was placed in the Trust Account at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee. Except with respect to interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account that may be released to the Company to pay its taxes and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses, the funds held in the Trust Account will not be released from the Trust Account until the earliest of (i) the completion of the Companys initial business combination, (ii) the redemption of any of the ordinary shares included in the Units sold in the IPO (the Public Shares) properly submitted in connection with a shareholder vote to amend the Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (A) to modify the substance or timing of the Companys obligation to redeem 100% of the Public Shares if it does not complete its initial business combination by July 22, 2023 (or within any extended period of time that we may have to consummate an initial business combination as a result of an amendment to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association) or (B) with respect to any other material provisions relating to shareholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity or (iii) the redemption of the Companys Public Shares if it is unable to complete its initial business combination by July 22, 2023 (or by the end of any such extended period of time), subject to applicable law. We have obtained shareholder approval to extend the date by which we must consummate an initial business combination from July 22, 2022 to July 22, 2023, and funds were released from the Trust Account to redeem certain Public Shares in connection therewith and in connection with an earlier extension. The proceeds deposited in the Trust Account could become subject to the claims of our creditors, if any, which could have priority over the claims of our Public Shareholders. The proceeds held in the Trust Account will be invested only in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act that invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of Private Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a business combination. 36 Table of Contents After the payment of underwriting discounts and commissions and $458,249 in expenses relating to the IPO, $1,693,616 of the net proceeds of the IPO and Private Placement was not deposited into the Trust Account and was retained by us for working capital purposes. In connection with the extensions of the date by which the Company must consummate an initial business combination approved by our shareholders on July 14, 2022 and January 6, 2023, amounts were withdrawn from the Trust Account to redeem ordinary shares of our shareholders who exercised their right to redeem them, as described in Liquidity and Capital Resources below. The remaining net proceeds deposited into the Trust Account are on deposit in the Trust Account earning interest. As of December 31, 2022, there was $9,835,409 in investments and cash held in the Trust Account and $175,788 of cash held outside the Trust Account available for working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2022, no funds had been withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the Companys income taxes. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction (as defined below) or any other initial business combination will be successful. Recent Developments Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction On November 15, 2022, the Company and Mobix Labs, Inc. (Mobix Labs) entered into a business combination agreement, by and among the Company, Mobix Labs and CLAY Merger Sub II, Inc., a Delaware corporation and newly formed, wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into Mobix Labs, with Mobix Labs surviving the merger as a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company (the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction). Upon closing of the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction, the combined company will be named Mobix Labs, Inc., and its common stock and warrants are expected to be listed on Nasdaq. The Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction includes a subscription agreement with the PIPE Investor in respect of a private placement of 3,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock at a price of $10.00 per share for an aggregate amount of $30,000,000, subject to, among other things, the approval of the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction by the Companys shareholders and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the business combination agreement, including a Form S-4 registration statement being declared effective by the SEC. Second Extension On January 6, 2023, the Company held a second extraordinary general meeting and obtained shareholder approval of the extension of the date by which the Company must consummate an initial business combination from January 22, 2023 to July 22, 2023 by amending the Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association. Certain of our shareholders holding 96,991 ordinary shares exercised their right to redeem their shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, $1,004,600 (approximately $10.36 per share) was deducted from the Trust Account to pay such holders. In connection with the extension, we agreed to deposit $42,802 (at a rate of $0.05 per non-redeeming Public Share) for each subsequent monthly period needed by the Company to complete a business combination by July 22, 2023. Following the redemptions of the Public Shares described above, the 2,000,000 Founder Shares that remain outstanding represented 70% of the Companys issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Nasdaq Notice of Non-Compliance With a Continued Listing Rule On March 23, 2023, the Company received a notice from the Listing Qualifications staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the minimum Market Value of Listed Securities (MVLS) for the Companys ordinary shares was below the $35 million minimum MVLS requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b)(2) (the MVLS Rule). In accordance with the Nasdaq Listing Rules, the Company will have 180 calendar days ( i.e. , until September 19, 2023) to regain compliance with the MVLS Rule. To regain compliance with the MVLS Rule, the MVLS for the Companys ordinary shares must be at least $35 million for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days at any time during this 180-day period. If the Company does not regain compliance with the rule by September 19, 2023, The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC will provide notice that the Companys ordinary shares will be delisted from The Nasdaq Capital Market. In the event of such notification, the Nasdaq rules permit the Company an opportunity to appeal The Nasdaq Stock Market LLCs determination. The Company is monitoring the MVLS of its ordinary shares and will consider options available to it to potentially achieve compliance. The Companys securities are expected to continue to trade on The Nasdaq Capital Market during the 180-day period. 37 Table of Contents Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through December 31, 2022 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for our IPO, and, subsequent to the IPO, the process of evaluating and pursuing an initial business combination. We have evaluated over 80 potential acquisition targets, including targets that were identified by our management, advisory partners and representatives. Over the course of such evaluations, we entered into 34 non-disclosure agreements and submitted eight non-binding indications of interest or letters of intent in connection with certain of these acquisition opportunities, including with Mobix Labs. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the IPO. We have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, an initial business combination. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had a net loss of approximately $776,000, which was driven by operating costs of approximately $1,260,000 and a loss of approximately $1,109,000 from the initial recognition of the PIPE Derivative Liability (as defined in Note 6 of the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and as described further in Critical Accounting EstimatesDerivative Financial Instruments ), partially offset by income of approximately $43,000 from the change in fair value of the PIPE Derivative Liability (see Note 6 of the financial statements), approximately $1,332,000 from the adjustment of the fair value of the Private Warrant liability and approximately $217,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. From March 19, 2021 (inception) through December 31, 2021, we had net income of approximately $361,000, which consists of income of approximately $1,121,000 derived from the adjustment of the fair value of the Private Warrant liability and interest earned on marketable securities held in our Trust Account of approximately $3,000, partially offset by operating costs of approximately $763,000. Subsequent to December 31, 2022, (1) on January 6, 2023, we obtained shareholder approval of the Second Extension. In connection with the Second Extension, Public Shareholders holding 96,991 Public Shares elected to exercise their right to redeem such shares and $1,004,600 was paid out of the Trust Account in connection with the redemptions; and (2) we have drawn down additional Working Capital Loans of $600,000 in fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 and January 2023. As of March 30, 2023, the Company had drawn down $962,000 under the Working Capital Loans. The Chairman of the board of directors of the Company or an entity affiliated with him and another existing investor in the Sponsor and/or persons affiliated with such investor provided the funds to the Sponsor for the foregoing Working Capital Loans. As of March 30, 2023, there were 856,042 remaining Public Shares, and the Trust Account had a total balance of $9,090,881. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, there were $9,835,409 in investments and cash held in the Trust Account, $175,788 of cash held outside the Trust Account available for working capital purposes and a working capital deficiency of $844,469. As of December 31, 2022, no funds had been withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the Companys income taxes. As of December 31, 2021, there was $80,002,777 in investments and cash held in the Trust Account and $240,706 of cash held outside the Trust Account available for working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2021, no funds had been withdrawn from the Trust Account to pay the Companys income taxes. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, which interest will be net of taxes payable, to complete our business combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business 38 Table of Contents combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. The Company anticipates that the cash held outside of the Trust Account as of December 31, 2022 will not be sufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of the financial statements, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in pursuit of its acquisition plans. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern for a period of time within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. Management plans to address this uncertainty through the initial business combination as discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the Company has borrowed amounts under the Working Capital Loans described below to fund its working capital requirements and may continue to do so. The Companys plans to consummate an initial business combination may not be successful or may not be successful before the required deadline. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied through the $25,000 capital contribution to purchase Founder Shares by our Sponsor, the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account and loans from our Sponsor. In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Transaction, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us with Working Capital Loans, as defined and described below. Until the consummation of the IPO, our only source of liquidity was our Sponsors purchase of Founder Shares and loans from our Sponsor. On July 22, 2021, we consummated the IPO of 8,000,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $80,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, we consummated the sale of 3,400,000 Private Warrants to the Sponsor and the underwriters at a price of $1.00 per Private Warrant generating gross proceeds of $3,400,000. After the payment of underwriting discounts and commissions and $458,249 in expenses relating to the IPO, $1,693,616 of the net proceeds of the IPO and Private Placement was not deposited into the Trust Account and was retained by us for working capital purposes. The net proceeds deposited into the Trust Account remain on deposit in the Trust Account earning interest. On July 14, 2022, the Company held an extraordinary general meeting and obtained shareholder approval of the extension of the date by which the Company must consummate an initial business combination from July 22, 2022 to January 22, 2023 by amending the Companys Existing Charter (the First Extension Amendment). The First Extension Amendment became effective upon approval of the Companys shareholders. In connection with the First Extension Amendment, shareholders holding 7,046,967 ordinary shares of the Company exercised their right to redeem their ordinary shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, $70,573,278 was deducted from the Trust Account to pay such holders. As a result of redemption payments and above-mentioned extensions, the Company deposited $31,450 (at a rate of $0.033 per non-redeeming Public Share) for each subsequent monthly period needed by the Company to complete a business combination by January 22, 2023. At another extraordinary general meeting on January 6, 2023, our shareholders were asked to approve a further extension of the date by which we must consummate an initial business combination from January 22, 2023 to July 22, 2023. The proposal was approved, and certain of our shareholders holding 96,991 ordinary shares exercised their right to redeem their shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, $1,004,600 (approximately $10.36 per share) was deducted from the Trust Account to pay such holders. In connection with the Second Extension, we agreed to deposit $42,802 (at a rate of $0.05 per non-redeeming Public Share) for each subsequent monthly period needed by the Company to complete a business combination by July 22, 2023. As of March 30, 2023, the Company had deposited an aggregate of $317,107 in the Trust Account in connection with the First Extension Amendment and the Second Extension, and the Trust Account had a total balance of $9,090,881. Working Capital Loans In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a business combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a business combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Warrants. On June 20, 2022, the Sponsor provided the Company with a Working Capital Loan of $360,000, and the Company issued an unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $360,000 to the Sponsor. On July 18, 2022, the Sponsor provided the Company with a Working Capital Loan of $490,000, and the Company issued an unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $490,000 to the Sponsor. On January 6, 2023, the Sponsor provided the Company with a 39 Table of Contents Working Capital Loan of $300,000, and the Company issued an unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000 to the Sponsor. Any Working Capital Loans under the promissory notes issued on June 20, 2022 and July 18, 2022 are due on the earlier of five business days after the Companys initial business combination and December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had drawn down $662,000 under the Working Capital Loans. Most recently on January 6, 2023, the Sponsor provided the Company with a Working Capital Loan of $300,000, and the Company issued an unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000 to the Sponsor. The Working Capital Loan under this promissory note is due on the earlier of five business days after the Companys initial business combination and July 31, 2024. As of March 30, 2023, the Company had drawn down $962,000 under the Working Capital Loans, with the ability to draw down an additional $188,000 under those promissory notes. Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities reflected on our consolidated balance sheet, other than as described above under Working Capital Loans . In addition, pursuant to the Business Combination Marketing Agreement among the Company, Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, a marketing fee equal to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Chavant IPO will become payable to Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC only if the Company consummates a business combination. If a business combination does not occur, the Company will not be required to pay these contingent fees. There can be no assurances that the Company will complete a business combination. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting estimates: Derivative Financial Instruments We account for derivative instruments as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the derivative instruments specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480), and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the derivative instruments are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, whether they meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the derivative instruments meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the derivative instruments are indexed to our own common stock, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of issuance and/or as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the financial instruments are outstanding. The PIPE Subscription Agreement contains embedded Make-Whole Features (as defined in Note 6 of the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). The PIPE Subscription Agreement, as a freestanding financial instrument, does not meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480 but is classified as a liability upon the application of ASC 815-40. As a result, the Company is required to measure the fair value of the PIPE Derivative Liability at the time the Company entered into the PIPE Subscription Agreement and at the end of each reporting period and is required to recognize the change in fair value in the Companys operating results for the current period. In order to capture the market conditions associated with the PIPE Derivative Liability, the Company used Level 3 inputs and applied an approach that incorporated a Monte Carlo simulation methodology, which involved future stock-price paths for the Adjustment Period VWAP (as defined in Note 6). Based on assumptions regarding probability of the closing of Business Combination and the terms for Make-Whole Features, the fair value of the PIPE Derivative Liability was determined based on the estimated Adjustment Period VWAP within each simulated path and by taking the average of the estimated Adjustment Period VWAP. The key assumptions in the Monte Carlo model utilized are assumptions related to expected share-price volatility, expected term, risk-free interest rate and dividend yield. Please refer to Note 8 of the financial statements for key inputs used in the Monte Carlo model. 40 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements. JOBS Act The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We have elected to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, the JOBS Act permits us to rely on other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an independent registered public accounting firms attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the independent registered public accounting firms report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis), and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the IPO or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.