Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should review the sections titled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors included elsewhere in this report for a discussion of forward-looking statements and important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Company Overview Mobileye is a leader in the development and deployment of advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving technologies and solutions. We pioneered ADAS technology more than 20 years ago and have continuously expanded the scope of our ADAS offerings, while leading the evolution to autonomous driving solutions. Our portfolio of solutions is built upon a comprehensive suite of purpose-built software and hardware technologies designed to provide the capabilities needed to make the future of ADAS and autonomous driving a reality. These technologies can be harnessed to deliver mission-critical capabilities at the edge and in the cloud, advancing the safety of road users, and revolutionizing the driving experience and the movement of people and goods globally. As of June 29, 2024, our solutions had been installed in approximately 800 vehicle models (including local country, year, and other vehicle model variations), and our System-on-Chips (SoCs) had been deployed in approximately 180 million vehicles. We are actively working with more than 50 Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) worldwide on the implementation of our ADAS solutions. In the six months ended June 29, 2024, we shipped approximately 11.2 million of our systems, the substantial majority of which were EyeQTM SoCs. This represents a decrease from the approximately 16.4 million of our systems that we shipped in the six months ended July 1, 2023. We were founded in Israel in 1999. Our co-founder, Professor Amnon Shashua, is our President and Chief Executive Officer. In 2014, we completed an initial public offering as a foreign private issuer and traded under the symbol MBLY on the New York Stock Exchange. Intel Corporation (Intel) acquired Mobileye for $15.3 billion in 2017, after which we became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Intel. We completed the internal reorganization and design of our new public entity (the Reorganization) and our initial public offering (the Mobileye IPO) in October 2022. Operations in Israel. On October 7, 2023, Hamas launched a series of attacks on civilian and military targets in Southern Israel and Central Israel, to which the Israel Defense Forces have responded. In addition, Hezbollah has attacked military and civilian targets in Northern Israel, to which Israel has responded. Further, on April 13, 2024, Iran launched a series of drone and missile strikes against Israel, to which Israel has responded. How long and how severe the current conflict in Gaza, Northern Israel or the broader region becomes is unknown at this time and any continued clash among Israel, Hamas, Hezbollah, Iran or other countries or militant groups in the region may escalate in the future into a greater regional conflict. To date, our operations have not been materially affected, although as of July 31, 2024 approximately 3.6% of our employees have been called to reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces. We expect that the current conflict in the Gaza Strip and the security escalation in Israel will not have a material impact on our business results in the short term. However, since this is an event beyond our control, its continuation or cessation may affect our expectations. We continue to monitor political and military developments closely and examine the consequences for our operations and assets. Our Business Model We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our commercially deployed ADAS solutions, including our Premium ADAS solutions. In the future, propelled by our next generation of EyeQTM SoCs, our surround computer vision Mobileye SuperVision solution, productization of software-defined imaging radars and our True Redundancy architecture, we believe that we will be positioned to deliver an autonomous driving solution that can enable the mass adoption of AV. 25 Table of Contents We generate the majority of our revenue from the sale of our EyeQTM SoCs to OEMs through sales to Tier 1 automotive suppliers. We typically sell our products with volume-based pricing and recognize the revenue and costs associated with our products upon shipment. We invest significant time and other resources early in the process of new program sourcing as part of our relationship with an OEM. We typically have visibility into the number of models that are expected to include our products at least two to three years in advance based on OEM information provided during the sourcing and nomination process, although there is no contractual commitment by the OEM to purchase particular volumes, and programs are subject to changes with respect to timing and volumes. The revenue that we may recognize in any given year is attributable to program design wins in previous years. We partner with STMicroelectronics, a leading supplier and innovator of semiconductor devices for automotive applications, in manufacturing, design, and research and development. We have co-developed six generations of our automotive grade SOC, EyeQTM, with STMicroelectronics, including EyeQTM5 and EyeQTM6. We have also established relationships with several suppliers, such as Quanta Computer, to develop and assemble our ECUs, including the design for our Mobileye SuperVision, which includes our EyeQTM5 SoCs manufactured by STMicroelectronics. Our close partnership with Intel exists on multiple fronts. As a result of our relationship with Intel, we have access to unique and differentiating technologies. For example, we may license certain technologies from Intel that support the development of our FMCW lidar, and the design and development of our software-defined radar, including Intels mmWave technologies. Additionally, we intend to explore a collaboration with Intel on a technology platform to integrate our EyeQTM SoC with Intels market leading central compute capability, with plans to utilize Intel Foundry Services advanced packaging capabilities. This potential platform is intended to enable functions essential to safety, entertainment, and cloud connectivity. Intels strength in government affairs and policy development around the world will continue to be of significant value to us as we collaborate with regulators who are preparing frameworks to enable commercial deployment of AVs. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe there are several important factors that have affected and that we expect to continue to affect our results of operations: Global demand for automotive vehicles. Our business performance is related to global automotive sales and automotive vehicle production by our OEM customers. Economic conditions in North America, Europe and Asia can have a large impact on the production volume of new vehicles, and, accordingly, have an impact on our revenue. Towards the end of the first half of 2024, global automotive production forecasts weakened, which disproportionately impacted our core customers, primarily due to their continued market share losses in China. We cannot be certain of the severity and length of the continued volatility and weakness in the global automotive market, including macro-factors impacting our sales to OEMs in China, and the extent of the adverse effect that such weakness and volatility will have on our results of operations, financial condition and business in the long term. Our OEM customers production can vary from period to period due to global demand, market conditions and competitive conditions, geopolitical issues including trade restrictions and tariffs, as well as other factors. For example, we expect a reduction in production estimates and orders from customers in the second half of 2024, primarily due to China related macro-factors. While automotive production has now recovered to approximately 2019 levels, current uncertain economic conditions and inflation may contribute to a reduction in consumer demand. On the other hand, pent up demand from years of below peak production levels could lead to better than expected production. In addition to economic conditions, in prior periods, including during the supply chain crisis and semi-conductor shortage of 2021 and 2022, certain Tier 1 customers increased their orders for components and parts, including our solutions, to counteract the impact of supply chain shortages for auto parts. As a result, some demand for our solutions and the corresponding revenue from these customers were shifted to earlier time periods than otherwise would have occurred absent a general supply chain shortage and inflationary environment. As a result of our standard planning process for 2024, including discussions with our Tier 1 customers, we became aware in late 2023 of significant excess inventory at our customers. This as well as lower than expected production at certain OEMs during 2023 led to the decision by our Tier 1 customers to prioritize in the first quarter of 2024 the utilization of excess inventory on hand before using new shipments to meet the demand of OEMs. We estimate that our customers have used the vast majority of this excess customer inventory in the first and second quarters of 2024, in accordance with our expectations, but there is no guarantee that orders will continue to normalize during the remainder of 2024. ADAS volumes have grown faster in recent years than the overall automotive market as ADAS penetration rates have increased, and we believe that we will continue to benefit from that trend. However, our revenue of $678 million in the six months ended June 29, 2024 was down (26)% year-over-year, primarily due to the aforementioned utilization of excess inventory by our customers during the first and second quarters of 2024. Continued or future constraint on global automotive production resulting from the effects of economic uncertainty, both global and in specific markets in which we operate, may be a limiting factor on our ability to increase revenue. We expect to continue to capitalize on our strong and collaborative relationships with OEMs and Tier 1s to expand our presence in key markets and capture the long-term growth opportunities in those markets. 26 Table of Contents Design wins with new and existing customers. Global OEMs are continuously looking for innovative ways to improve the customer appeal and safety of their vehicles. Additional program design wins for production programs are important to our future revenue growth. However, the revenue generated by each design win and the time necessary to achieve a design win can vary significantly. To achieve program design wins, we must maintain our technological leadership and continue to deliver differentiated solutions versus our competition through investment in research and development. Together with Tier 1 automotive suppliers, we work closely with OEMs to understand their solution requirements and have built close long-term relationships with them extending across multiple generations of EyeQTM products, though there is no guarantee that our customers will purchase our solutions in any certain quantity or at any certain price even after we achieve design wins. Investment in technology leadership and product development. We believe our ability to continue to develop and design highly advanced and cost-efficient ADAS and AV solutions will position us to extend our technology leadership and encourage greater adoption of our solutions by enabling greater levels of autonomy. We also believe that our roadmap for future generations of EyeQTM SoCs and advanced systems will ultimately power autonomous driving solutions. The EyeQTM family design further enables scalable ECU architectures, from supporting a variety of ADAS solution architectures to hosting the full workload of autonomous driving, while meeting stringent cost and power efficiency requirements. We expect that our development of software-defined imaging radar will provide a significant cost advantage by eliminating the need for multiple high-cost lidars around the vehicle and require only a single front-facing lidar, significantly lowering the overall cost of the required sensors compared to solutions that use lidar centric or lidar-only systems. Regulation for ADAS and autonomous driving solutions. Demand for our solutions is influenced by the impact of regulation and the ratings systems deployed by the various NCAPs, particularly the Euro NCAP and the U.S. NCAP, administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. As these NCAPs demand more ADAS applications such as automatic emergency braking, OEMs will increasingly include ADAS as a standard feature in their models to maintain or to achieve the highest safety ratings. In many countries, these safety assessments have created a market for safety as car manufacturers seek to demonstrate that their models satisfy the NCAPs highest ratings. We expect national NCAPs to continue to add specific ADAS applications to their evaluation items over the next several years, led by the Euro NCAP. In recent years, as regulatory requirements and NCAP ratings have increased, OEMs have also begun to highlight their safety features as a competitive advantage. As additional regulations are implemented around the world, we expect this to lead to increased global adoption of ADAS, and we believe that we are well positioned to benefit from such increasing safety regulations globally, particularly due to the verifiable nature of our current and future solutions. Fully autonomous vehicles are still nascent, and regulation of autonomous driving is evolving globally on both a local and national level. We believe that regulatory bodies will demand that AV undergo certain validation and audit requirements before autonomous driving is permitted. The potential impact of regulatory requirements and initiatives on the timing for widespread adoption of fully autonomous driving and on the cost of developing and introducing autonomous driving solutions is uncertain. RSS is our framework that informs our driving policy and formalizes a driving safety concept. Our RSS framework and decision-making engine have inspired a global standardization effort of AV safety including IEEE 2846, which is an industry working group that we lead. We are actively engaged in AV regulations globally as they have implications for the pace at which autonomous driving technologies may be deployed as well as which AV technology validation and audit requirements must be met. Importantly, we believe RSS, which is a pragmatic method that is architected to deliver a provably acceptable level of risk defined by governments, will facilitate standardization efforts worldwide as AV deployments accelerate. In addition to impacting the pace at which autonomous driving technologies are deployed, we expect regulations to impact our financial performance on an ongoing basis over time once autonomous driving gains market adoption. We cannot provide any assurance how any such regulations will impact us and the extent of such impact, particularly if autonomous driving is prohibited in certain areas. Consumer adoption of our ADAS and autonomous driving solutions. Our financial performance is in part driven by public awareness and demand for ADAS solutions. Over time we expect autonomous driving solutions to contribute meaningfully to our revenue growth. As a result, consumers demand for, and willingness to adopt, ADAS and autonomous driving technologies will significantly impact our financial performance. We believe that our leadership position in ADAS positions us to continue to set the standard for advanced autonomous solutions and will help us benefit from increasing consumer confidence in and demand for autonomous technology over time. Solution mix, pricing, and product costs. Solution mix is among the most important factors affecting our revenue and gross margin, as our prices vary significantly across our solutions. The price of our solutions depends on the bundle of applications that are included in the specific product. Our solutions have different margin profiles. As we develop, bundle, and sell full systems that include third-party hardware beyond EyeQTM SoCs, we expect that our gross margin will decrease on a percentage basis because of the greater third-party hardware content. However, as a result of a higher expected selling price for such systems, we expect our gross profit per unit will increase on a dollar basis. 27 Table of Contents Average selling price (ASP) varies based on a solutions applications and complexity. As a particular solution matures and unit volumes increase, we expect its ASP to decline. In addition, there are generally step-downs in pricing over periods of production as volumes ramp up. While individual solution ASPs may decline, we seek to continually offer new features and functionality and increase the value that our solutions offer to OEM customers as we target new design win opportunities manage the life cycles of existing solutions and create new ADAS categories with advanced features. We also are currently delivering full system solutions consisting of higher-function products such as SuperVisionTM which carry significantly higher prices as compared to our single EyeQTM SoC and cloud-enhanced ADAS products. We believe our differentiated and scalable solutions consistently enhanced by additional features can enable us to maintain or increase overall ASPs over time, as SuperVisionTM and other advanced solutions become a larger portion of our product mix. The cost of input materials and manufacturing costs are significant factors affecting our gross margin. Material costs are affected by a variety of factors, including the availability of sufficient supply to meet market demand. For example, in late 2021, semiconductor fabrication costs increased as a result of a global supply shortage that began in 2020. We experienced increases in input costs in 2022 and 2023 as a result of supply chain shortages, including the global semiconductor shortage, and inflationary pressures. While we were largely successful in increasing our ASPs to reflect these cost increases, we experienced a reduction in percentage gross margin, as a result of these cost increases. Our gross margin has been and may continue to be affected by our ability to offset these and any future cost increases through realizing pricing increases on our solutions and achieving decreases in other production costs. We work closely with STMicroelectronics, Quanta Computer and other suppliers on a continuous basis to manage material costs, increase yields and improve manufacturing, assembly, and test costs. Supply and manufacturing capacity. Our solutions are dependent on the global semiconductor supply chain. The continued and timely supply of input materials, the availability of manufacturing capacity, and packaging and testing services at reasonable prices impact our ability to meet customer demand. Supply chain disruptions, shortages of raw material, such as wafers and substrates, and manufacturing limitations could limit our ability to meet customer demand and result in delayed, reduced, or canceled orders. During 2021 and 2022, the semiconductor industry experienced widespread shortages of substrates and other components and available foundry manufacturing capacity. We entered 2022 with significantly lower inventories of our EyeQTM SoCs on our balance sheet as a result of the limited supply during 2021. Further, STMicroelectronics, our sole supplier of EyeQTM SoCs, was not able to meet our demand for EyeQTM SoCs during 2022, causing further a significant reduction in our company-owned inventory level. Starting in late 2022 and early 2023, such supply chain disruptions, raw material shortages, and manufacturing limitations abated and during 2023, we successfully increased levels of EyeQTM SoC inventory on hand, mitigating the potential for future supply constraints to cause a shortfall of chips. However, in the event of a reoccurrence of supply chain constraints, and subject to the duration and severity thereof, we may be required to operate with minimal or no inventory of EyeQTM SoCs or SuperVisionTM ECUs on hand. As a result, we are substantially reliant on timely shipments of EyeQTM SoCs from STMicroelectronics and ECUs from Quanta Computer (or other suppliers) to fulfill customer orders and if such a shortfall of chips of ECUs were to occur, we may be unable to offset future supply constraints through the use of inventory on hand. Our results of operations in the three and six months ended June 29, 2024 have not been impacted by any shortfall of chips. Our reliance on single or limited suppliers and vendors for certain components, equipment, and services and the aforementioned shortages of substrates and other components have led to increased supply chain risks and continue to stress our ability to meet the supply demands of our customers. To mitigate these supply chain constraints, management continues to monitor inventory levels on an ongoing basis. Although we cannot fully predict the length and the severity of the impact these pressures will have on a long-term basis, we do not anticipate that our current supply chain constraints would materially adversely affect our results of operations, capital resources, sales, profits, and liquidity on a long-term basis. Public company expenses. As a recently public company, we have implemented and will continue to implement additional procedures and processes for the purpose of addressing the standards and requirements applicable to public companies. In particular, we expect our accounting, legal and personnel-related expenses to increase as we continue to establish more comprehensive compliance and governance functions and hire additional personnel to support such functions, maintain and review internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and prepare and distribute periodic reports in accordance with SEC rules. Our financial statements will reflect the impact of these expenses. We also expect the costs of our insurance, including directors and officers insurance and insurance coverage for AV activity, to increase as a result of higher premiums. In addition, in connection with the Mobileye IPO, we established an equity incentive plan for purposes of granting share-based compensation awards to certain members of our senior management, to our non-employee directors and to employees, to incentivize their performance and align their interests with ours. Historically, grants of share-based compensation to our employees were made pursuant to Intels employee equity incentive plans, and such historical grants will continue based on their original vesting schedules. Equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our future compensation strategy and a significant component of our future expenses, which we expect to increase over time. 28 Table of Contents Intel Segment Reporting Certain of our financial results are presented as an operating segment within Intels publicly reported financial results. The financial results for us reported by Intel in its segment reporting may differ from our standalone financial results primarily due to Intels reporting of expenses related to certain corporate overhead functions and differences in the materiality thresholds applied to prepare consolidated financial results for Intel and for Mobileye on a standalone basis. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We currently derive substantially all of our revenue from our commercially deployed ADAS solutions including our Premium ADAS solutions. We generate the majority of our revenue from the sale of our EyeQTM SoCs to OEMs through sales to Tier 1 automotive suppliers that implement our product into vehicles, in which case our direct customer is the Tier 1 automotive supplier that is responsible for paying us for our products. Because of the complex nature of our products and the need to customize and validate a product and to integrate it into the OEMs overall ADAS system, we also have strong direct relationships with the OEMs. EyeQTM SoC sales represented approximately 86% and 92% of our revenue for the three months ended June 29, 2024 and July 1, 2023, respectively, and 81% and 90% of our revenue in the six months ended June 29, 2024 and July 1, 2023, respectively. Sales of our SuperVision product represented the majority of the remainder of our revenue for the three and six months ended June 29, 2024 and also for the three and six months ended July 1, 2023. Revenue from the sale of our EyeQTM products and SuperVision products is recognized at the time of product shipment from our facilities, as determined by the agreed-upon shipping terms. Our sales to any single Tier 1 automotive supplier typically cover more than one OEM and more than one production program from any OEM. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the manufacturing cost of our EyeQTM SoCs and our SuperVision product, and amortization of acquired intangible assets, identified as developed technology. Additional costs are royalty fees for the intellectual property that is included in the EyeQTM SoC, personnel-related expenses, logistics and insurance costs and allocated overhead costs. As we develop and sell full systems that include hardware beyond EyeQTM SoCs, we expect that our gross margin will decrease because of the greater hardware content included in our solutions. However, as a result of a higher expected selling price for such systems, we expect our gross profit per unit will increase on a dollar basis in future periods. Research and Development Expenses, net Research and development expenses primarily consist of expenses related to personnel related expenses, including share-based compensation, facilities, equipment and supplies for research and development activities, materials, parts and other prototype development, cloud computing services, consulting, and other professional services, including data labeling, quality assurance within the development programs, and allocated overhead costs. We enter into best-efforts nonrefundable non-recurring engineering (NRE) arrangements pursuant to which we are reimbursed for a portion of the research and development expenses attributable to specific development programs. We do not receive any additional compensation or royalties upon completion of such projects and the potential customer does not commit to purchase the resulting product in the future. The participation reimbursement that we receive does not depend on whether there are future benefits from the project. All intellectual property generated from these arrangements are exclusively owned by us. We intend to continue our significant investment in research and development activities to attain our strategic objectives. Accordingly, we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but to gradually decrease as a percentage of total revenue, over time. In the near term, we expect that our research and development expenses will increase compared to 2023, also as a percentage of total revenue, mainly due to additional research and development headcount and higher direct expenses that we expect to incur in connection with the development of our new EyeQTM SoC generations, Premium Driver-Assist offerings and the productization of our AV solutions and active sensor suite. 29 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of expenses associated with the amortization of acquired intangible assets, comprised of customer relationships and brands, personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation, of our sales force, as well as marketing expenses and allocated overhead costs. We expect to increase our sales and marketing expenses as we continue our efforts to increase market awareness of the benefits of our solutions, but we expect sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of total revenue as our business grows. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including share-based compensation of our executive, insurance costs, as well as legal and accounting fees, litigation expenses, and fees for professional and contract services. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase moderately in absolute dollars but to decrease as a percentage of total revenue as our business grows. The expected increase is mainly associated with the costs related to being a public company, including the need to hire more personnel to support compliance with SEC rules and regulations as well as increased premiums for directors and officers insurance and the increased use of share-based compensation for general and administrative personnel. Other Financial Income (Expense), net Other financial income (expense), net, consists primarily of income related to investments in money market funds, as well as income from short term deposits and fluctuations in value due to foreign exchange differences between our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in New Israeli Shekels and to a much lesser extent, the Euro, the Chinese Yuan, the Japanese Yen, and other currencies. Benefit (provision) for Income Taxes Benefit (provision) for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to the United States, Israel, and other foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We also have incurred deferred tax liabilities with respect to tax amortization of certain acquired intangible assets. We are eligible for certain tax benefits in Israel under the Investment Law, at a reduced tax rate, subject to specified terms. In addition, the OECD announced an Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting including Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax in 2021, which calls for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum rate of 15%. Subsequently, multiple sets of administrative guidance have been issued. Many non-US tax jurisdictions have either recently enacted legislation to adopt certain components of the Pillar Two Model Rules beginning in 2024 (including the European Union Member States), with the adoption of additional components in later years, or announced their plans to enact legislation in future years. We are continuing to evaluate the impacts of enacted legislation and pending legislation to enact Pillar Two Model Rules in the non-US tax jurisdictions we operate in. During the periods presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, certain components of our business operations were included in the consolidated U.S. tax return filed by Intel. We also file certain foreign income tax returns on a separate basis, distinct from Intel. The income tax provision included in our condensed consolidated financial statements has been calculated using the separate return method as if we had filed our own tax returns. We present tax loss and tax credit carry-forward amounts that have not been utilized by Intel only to the extent such tax attributes can be claimed as a benefit consistent with our separate income tax return method approach. The use of the separate return method may result in differences between our income tax provision compared to Intels consolidated income tax provision. In 2021, Mobileyes Israeli operations became taxable in the United States as a branch entity. In 2022, Moovits Israeli operations became taxable in the United States as a branch entity. As a result, these operations are taxed both in the United States and Israel. For U.S. tax purposes, there are favorable future tax deductions from which we have not benefited due to a valuation allowance position. If warranted, based on the assessment of verifiable evidence in support of the realization of the deferred tax assets, the valuation allowances may be released, resulting in a tax benefit. 30 Table of Contents Realization of deferred tax assets is based on our judgment and various factors including reversal of deferred tax liabilities, the ability to generate future taxable income in jurisdictions where such assets have arisen, and potential tax planning strategies. The valuation allowance for the periods presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements primarily relate to U.S. branch deferred tax assets not currently expected to be realized given that we have sustained recent losses based on the separate return method. Certain net operating losses and tax credit carry-forward tax attributes generated by the Company that have been utilized as part of Intels consolidated income tax return filings, but have not been utilized by the Company under the separate return method approach, have been reflected in these condensed consolidated financial statements because the Company will recognize a benefit based on the separate return method when determined to be realizable. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three months Ended Six months Ended June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 % of % of % of % of U.S. dollars in millions Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Amount Revenue Revenue $ 439 100 % $ 454 100 % $ 678 100 % $ 912 100 % Cost of revenue 230 52 % 230 51 % 415 61 % 481 53 % Gross profit 209 48 % 224 49 % 263 39 % 431 47 % Operating expenses: Research and development, net 256 58 % 211 46 % 499 74 % 446 49 % Sales and marketing 28 6 % 29 6 % 62 9 % 62 7 % General and administrative 19 4 % 17 4 % 34 5 % 37 4 % Total operating expenses 303 69 % 257 57 % 595 88 % 545 60 % Operating income (loss) $ (94) (21) % $ (33) (7) % $ (332) (49) % $ (114) (13) % Other financial income (expense), net 13 3 % 15 3 % 30 4 % 23 3 % Income (loss) before income taxes (81) (18) % (18) (4) % (302) (45) % (91) (10) % Benefit (provision) for income taxes (5) (1) % (10) (2) % (2) % (16) (2) % Net income (loss) $ (86) (20) % $ (28) (6) % $ (304) (45) % $ (107) (12) % (1) Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets, as follows: Three months Ended Six months Ended U.S. dollars in millions June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 Cost of revenue $ 94 $ 101 $ 188 $ 217 Sales and marketing 17 17 34 34 Total amortization of acquired intangible assets $ 111 $ 118 $ 222 $ 251 (2) Includes share-based compensation expense, as follows: Three months ended Six months ended U.S. dollars in millions June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 Cost of revenue $ 1 $ 1 $ 1 $ 2 Research and development, net 55 45 108 105 Sales and marketing 2 2 4 General and administrative 6 7 13 16 Total share-based compensation $ 62 $ 55 $ 124 $ 127 31 Table of Contents Comparison of the three and six months ended June 29, 2024 and July 1, 2023 Revenue In the three months ended June 29, 2024, revenue decreased by $15 million, or 3%, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease in revenue was primarily due to a decrease of $40 million or 10% in EyeQTM SoC revenue mostly attributable to a 9% reduction in volume resulting from the usage of the remaining excess inventory at our previously accumulated Tier 1 customers to satisfy demand. This was mostly offset by an increase of $25 million in SuperVisionTM related revenue. Average System Price, calculated as the sum of revenue related to EyeQTM and SuperVisionTM systems divided by the number of systems delivered, increased by 5%, due to the higher percentage of SuperVisionTM related revenue as compared to the second quarter of 2023. In the six months ended June 29, 2024, revenue decreased by $234 million, or 26%, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $274 million, or 33%, in EyeQTM SoC revenue attributable to a 32% decrease in volume resulting from the usage of meaningful excess inventory previously accumulated at our Tier 1 customers to satisfy demand. This was partially offset by an increase of $39 million in SuperVisionTM related revenue. Average System Price, calculated as the sum of revenue related to EyeQTM and SuperVisionTM systems divided by the number of systems delivered, increased by 7%, due to the higher percentage of SuperVisionTM related revenue as compared to the first half of 2023. Cost of Revenue In the three months ended June 29, 2024, our cost of revenue remained flat compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. This is due to an increase of $11 million in manufacturing costs, mainly resulting from an increase in sales of SuperVisionTM systems, mostly offset by a reduction of $7 million in amortization of intangible assets. In the six months ended June 29, 2024, our cost of revenue decreased by $66 million, or 14%, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to a net decrease of $33 million in manufacturing costs mainly resulting from the reduction in sales of EyeQTM SoC offset by the increase in sales of SuperVisionTM systems, as well as a decrease of $29 million in amortization of intangible assets. Gross Profit and Margin In the three months ended June 29 2024, our gross profit decreased by $15 million, or 7% compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. In the six months ended June 29 2024, our gross profit decreased by $168 million, or 39%, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. The gross profit decrease in both periods was mainly driven by the decrease in sales of EyeQTM systems, attributable to the usage of meaningful inventory at our Tier 1 customers to satisfy demand. In the three months ended June 29 2024, our gross margin has decreased to 48% compared to 49% in the three months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to the increase in the percentage of revenue attributable to SuperVisionTM. In addition, there was an increase in the average cost of our EyeQTM SoC compared to the second quarter of 2023 since we entered 2023 with an opening balance of EyeQTM SoC inventory that we previously acquired at lower-than-current prices. These were offset by the impact of the lower cost attributable to amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of revenue. In the six months ended June 29, 2024, our gross margin has decreased by 8% to 39% compared to 47% in the six months ended July 1, 2023. This was mainly due to the increase in the percentage of revenue attributable to SuperVisionTM, as well as a higher impact of amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of revenue. In addition, there was an increase in the average cost of our EyeQTM SoC compared to the first half of 2023 since we entered 2023 with an opening balance of EyeQTM SoC inventory that we previously acquired at lower-than-current prices. 32 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses, net Research and development expenses, net, in the three months ended June 29, 2024, increased by $45 million, or 21%, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. This increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll and related expenses, resulting from an increase in average research and development headcount of 367 employees, including an increase in share-based compensation, which was partially offset by the depreciation of the New Israeli Shekel against the USD and military duty reserve refunds from the state of Israel. In addition, there was an increase related to investments attributable to new product development and cloud computing services and also an increase in depreciation costs associated with the new campus and additional sites. Research and development expenses, net, in the six months ended June 29, 2024 increased by $53 million, or 12%, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. This increase was due to an increase in payroll and related expenses, resulting from an increase in average research and development headcount of 362 employees, including an increase in share-based compensation, which was partially offset by the depreciation of the New Israeli Shekel against the USD and military duty reserve refunds from the state of Israel. In addition, there was an increase related to investments attributable to new product development and cloud computing services that was partially offset by higher NRE reimbursements. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended June 29, 2024 decreased by $1 million, or 5%, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. Sales and marketing expenses in the six months ended June 29, 2024 remained flat compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses in the three months ended June 29, 2024 increased by $2 million, or 12%, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. This increase was mainly due to an increase in corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses in the six months ended June 29, 2024 decreased by $3, or 8%, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was mainly due to a decrease in share-based compensation expenses. Other Financial Income (expense), net Other financial income, net, in the three months ended June 29, 2024 decreased by $2 million, or 13%, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was mainly due to exchange rate differences and fair value revaluation related to equity investments. Other financial income, net, in the six months ended June 29, 2024 increased by $7 million, or 30%, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. This increase was mainly due to interest earned on investment in money market funds, as well as short term bank deposits. Benefit (Provision) for Income Tax In the three months ended June 29, 2024 provision for income tax decreased by $5 million, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was mainly driven by a higher loss before income taxes in the three months ended June 29, 2024 compared to prior year period. In the six months ended June 29, 2024, provision for income tax decreased by $14 million, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. This decrease was mainly due to a higher loss before income taxes in the six months ended June 29, 2024 compared to prior year period. Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe we have sufficient sources of funding to meet our business requirements and plans for the next 12 months and in the longer term. Cash generated by operations is our primary source of liquidity for funding our strategic business requirements. 33 Table of Contents Our primary uses of funds have been for funding increases in headcount in our research and development departments, investments attributable to new product development, as well as for funding our capital expenditures. Our capital expenditures have related mainly to the construction of our new sites and campus, data storage and other research and development projects related equipment and were $46 million and $58 million for the six months ended June 29, 2024 and July 1, 2023, respectively. To fund our cash requirements in the ordinary course of business, we anticipate that we will continue to primarily rely on operating cash flows, supplemented by our total cash and cash equivalents. We expect our total capital expenditures for 2024 to be slightly above our total capital expenditures in 2023, mainly due to investments in equipment related to the development of our next generation products. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate and the timing and extent of operating expenses. We have lease obligations and other contractual obligations and commitments as part of our ordinary course of business. We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements involving commitments or obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from arrangements with unconsolidated entities or persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements or capital resources. Cash Flows The following table sets forth certain consolidated statements of cash flow data: Six months ended U.S. dollars in millions June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 70 $ 197 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (64) (58) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (11) (12) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (5) (5) Increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (10) $ 122 Operating activities For the six months ended June 29, 2024 compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023, the $127 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities was mainly due to an increase of $197 million in net loss, partially offset by the decrease in trade accounts receivable due to reduction in revenue. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities in the six months ended June 29, 2024 was $64 million, consisting of capital expenditures and purchases of debt and equity investments. Net cash used in investing activities in the six months ended July 1, 2023 was $58 million consisting of capital expenditures. Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities in the six months ended June 29, 2024 and the six months ended July 1, 2023 was $11 million and $12 million, respectively, consisting of share-based compensation recharge payments made to Intel. Liability in respect of employee rights upon retirement Israeli labor laws and agreements require severance payments upon dismissal of an employee or upon termination of employment in other circumstances. The severance pay liability with respect to Israeli employees is calculated pursuant to Israeli Severance Pay Law based on the most recent salary of the employees multiplied by the number of years of employment as of the balance sheet date. 34 Table of Contents Our liability for all of our Israeli employees is covered by monthly deposits with severance pay funds. The value of the deposited funds is based on the cash surrender value of these policies and includes profits (or loss) accumulated through the balance sheet date. The deposited funds may be withdrawn only upon the fulfillment of the obligations pursuant to Israeli Severance Pay Law or labor agreements. The majority of our liability for severance pay is covered by the provisions of Section 14 of the Israeli Severance Pay Law (Section 14). Under Section 14 employees are entitled to monthly deposits, at a rate of 8.33% of their monthly salary, contributed by us on their behalf to their insurance funds. Payments in accordance with Section 14 release us from any future severance payments in respect of those employees. As a result, we do not recognize any liability for severance pay due to these employees and the deposits under Section 14 are not recorded as assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Severance pay liability decreased from $56 million as of December 30, 2023, to $55 million as of June 29, 2024, reflecting mainly the impact of fluctuations in value due to foreign exchange differences between New Israeli Shekel and USD. Lease liabilities We have lease agreements for vehicles and offices. We lease office space in various locations in Israel and around the world including USA, Germany and China. All leases are operating leases with fixed payment terms where some of the leases include annual increases to lease payments based on an index or a rate. Lease liabilities, representing the present value of future lease payments, have increased from $51 million as of December 30, 2023 to $52 million as of June 29, 2024, reflecting mainly new lease contracts and amendments to existing agreements, partially offset by the progress in lease payments for existing arrangements. Indebtedness We have several bank guarantees aggregating approximately $12 million as of June 29, 2024 (denominated in New Israeli Shekels) mainly in connection with lease agreements and import of vehicles. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our management uses Adjusted Gross Profit and Margin, Adjusted Operating Income and Margin and Adjusted Net Income, collectively, as key measures in operating our business. We use such non-GAAP financial measures to make strategic decisions, establish business plans and forecasts, identify trends affecting our business, and evaluate performance. For example, we use these non-GAAP financial measures to assess our pricing and sourcing strategy, in the preparation of our annual operating budget, and as a measure of our operating performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken collectively, may be helpful to investors because they allow for greater transparency into what measures our management uses in operating our business and measuring our performance, and enable comparison of financial trends and results between periods where items may vary independent of business performance. The non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may be different from similarly titled non-GAAP measures used by other companies. A reconciliation is provided below for each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable financial measure presented in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, as well as our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. We believe excluding items that neither relate to the ordinary course of business nor reflect our underlying business performance, such as the amortization of intangible assets, enables management and our investors to compare our underlying business performance from period-to-period. Accordingly, we believe these adjustments facilitate a useful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparison to our past operating performance and provide investors with additional means to evaluate cost and expense trends. In addition, we also believe these adjustments enhance comparability of our financial performance against those of other technology companies. 35 Table of Contents Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments for amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets, share-based compensation expense as well as the related income tax effects where applicable. We exclude amortization charges for our acquisition-related intangible assets for purposes of calculating certain non-GAAP measures, although revenue is generated, in part, by these intangible assets, to eliminate the impact of these non-cash charges that are inconsistent in size and are significantly impacted by the timing and valuation of our acquisitions. These amortization charges relate to intangible assets consisting of developed technology, customer relationships, and brands as a result of Intels acquisition of Mobileye in 2017 and the acquisition of Moovit in 2020. We believe that the exclusion of share-based compensation expense is appropriate because it eliminates the impact of non-cash expenses for equity-based compensation costs that are based upon valuation methodologies and assumptions that vary over time, and the amount of the expense can vary significantly between companies due to factors that are unrelated to their core operating performance and that can be outside of their control. Although we exclude share-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP measures, equity compensation has been, and will continue to be, an important part of our future compensation strategy and a significant component of our future expenses, and may increase in future periods. Adjusted Gross Profit and Margin We define Adjusted Gross Profit as gross profit presented in accordance with GAAP, excluding amortization of acquisition related intangibles and share-based compensation expense. Adjusted Gross Margin is calculated as Adjusted Gross Profit divided by total revenue. Set forth below is the reconciliation of gross profit to Adjusted Gross Profit and the calculations of gross margin and Adjusted Gross Margin: Three months Ended Six months Ended June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 U.S. dollars in millions Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Gross profit and margin $ 209 48 % $ 224 49 % $ 263 39 % $ 431 47 % Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 94 21 % 101 22 % 188 28 % 217 24 % Add: Share-based compensation expense 1 % 1 % 1 % 2 % Adjusted gross profit and margin $ 304 69 % $ 326 72 % $ 452 67 % $ 650 71 % Our Gross Margin (gross profit as a percentage of revenue) and Adjusted Gross Margin (adjusted gross profit as a percentage of revenue) reflect the high value-added nature of our solutions. As we develop and sell full systems that include hardware beyond EyeQTM SoCs, we expect that our Gross Margin and Adjusted Gross Margin will decrease because of the greater hardware content included in our solutions. However, as a result of a higher expected selling price for such systems, we expect our gross profit per unit will increase on a dollar basis. Our Adjusted Gross Margin decreased from 72% for the three months ended July 1, 2023 to 69% for the three months ended June 29, 2024 and from 71% for the six months ended July 1, 2023 to 67% for the six months ended June 29, 2024. The decrease in both periods was primarily due to the increase in the percentage of revenue attributable to SuperVisionTM. In addition there was an increase in the cost of our EyeQTM SoCs compared to the second quarter of 2023 since we entered 2023 with an opening balance of EyeQTM SoC inventory that we previously acquired at lower-than-current prices. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and Margin We define Adjusted Operating Income (loss) as operating income (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude amortization of acquisition related intangibles, and share-based compensation expenses. Operating margin is calculated as operating income (loss) divided by total revenue, and Adjusted Operating Margin is calculated as Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) divided by total revenue. 36 Table of Contents Set forth below is the reconciliation of operating income (loss) to Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and the calculations of Operating Margin and Adjusted Operating Margin: Three months Ended Six months Ended June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 U.S. dollars in millions Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Operating income (loss) and operating margin $ (94) (21) % $ (33) (7) % $ (332) (49) % $ (114) (13) % Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111 25 % 118 26 % 222 33 % 251 28 % Add: Share-based compensation expense 62 14 % 55 12 % 124 18 % 127 14 % Adjusted operating income and margin $ 79 18 % $ 140 31 % $ 14 2 % $ 264 29 % The three months ended June 29, 2024 ended with an operating loss of $(94) million compared to a $(33) million operating loss in the three months ended July 1, 2023. The increase in operating loss was mainly due to an increase in operating expenses including share based compensation expenses and a slight decrease in revenue, partially offset by lower amortization expenses. The six months ended June 29, 2024 ended with an operating loss higher by $218 million compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023, mainly due to lower revenue and higher operating expenses partially offset by lower amortization. Our Adjusted Operating Income decreased by $61 million in the three months ended June 29, 2024 compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023, mainly due to an increase in operating expenses and a slight reduction in revenue. Our Adjusted Operating Income decreased by $250 million in the six months ended June 29, 2024 compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to higher operating expenses on an unusually low revenue base. Our Adjusted Operating Margin decreased from 31% for the three months ended July 1, 2023 to 18% for the three months ended June 29, 2024 mainly due to higher operating expenses on a similar revenue base, in addition to the lower Adjusted Gross Margin. Our Adjusted Operating Margin decreased from 29% for the six months ended July 1, 2023 to 2% for the six months ended June 29, 2024. The decrease is mainly due to higher operating expenses on an unusually low revenue base, in addition to the lower Adjusted Gross Margin. Adjusted Net Income (Loss) We define Adjusted Net Income (Loss) as net income (loss) presented in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude amortization of acquisition related intangibles and share-based compensation expense, as well as the related income tax effects. Income tax effects have been calculated using the applicable statutory tax rate for each adjustment taking into consideration the associated valuation allowance impacts. The adjustment for income tax effects consists primarily of the deferred tax impact of the amortization of acquired intangible assets. Set forth below is the reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted Net Income (Loss): Three months Ended Six months Ended June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 June 29, 2024 July 1, 2023 U.S. dollars in millions Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Amount % of Revenue Net income (loss) $ (86) (20) % $ (28) (6) % $ (304) (45) % $ (107) (12) % Add: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 111 25 % 118 26 % 222 33 % 251 28 % Add: Share-based compensation expense 62 14 % 55 12 % 124 18 % 127 14 % Less: Income tax effects (11) (2) % (10) (2) % (21) (3) % (21) (2) % Adjusted net income $ 76 17 % $ 135 30 % $ 21 3 % $ 250 27 % Our net loss increased by $58 million in the three months ended June 29, 2024, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023, primarily due to lower revenue and higher operating expenses, including share based compensation, offset by lower amortization expenses. Our net loss increased by $197 million in the six months ended June 29, 2024, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023 primarily due to lower revenue and higher operating expenses partially offset by lower amortization and an increase in other financial income, net. 37 Table of Contents Our Adjusted Net Income decreased by $59 million in the three months ended June 29, 2024, compared to the three months ended July 1, 2023 mainly due to higher operating expense and lower revenue. Our adjusted net loss decreased by $229 million in the six months ended June 29, 2024, compared to the six months ended July 1, 2023. The decrease is primarily due to an unusually low revenue base and higher operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in other financial income. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and the Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Companys management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time the estimate was made. Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the condensed consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q and in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of the 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as filed with the SEC on February 23, 2024 (the 2023 Form 10-K) describe the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. There have been no material changes to the Companys critical accounting estimates since the 2023 Form 10-K. As noted in the 2023 Form 10-K critical accounting policies, we regularly test our goodwill and intangible assets to make a judgment on whether facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable and an impairment may be required. These reviews can be affected by various factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our forecasts for specific product lines. As disclosed elsewhere in this report, recent industry and economic trends have adversely impacted our business and forecasts, and this could impact the results of our testing in the future if these trends continue. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Mobileye and its representatives may also, from time to time, make certain forward-looking statements in publicly released materials, both written and oral, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, press releases, and our reports to stockholders. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as plan, expect, believe, intend, will, may, anticipate, estimate and other words of similar meaning in conjunction with, among other things, discussions of future operations and financial performance (including volume growth, pricing, sales and earnings per share growth, and cash flows) and statements regarding our strategy for growth, future product development, regulatory approvals, competitive position and expenditures. All statements that address our future operating performance or events or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are, and will be, based on managements then-current views and assumptions regarding future events, developments and operating performance, and speak only as of their dates. Investors should realize that if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, or risks or uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from our expectations and projections. Investors are therefore cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. Furthermore, we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements after the date they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events and developments or otherwise, except as required by applicable law or regulations. Forward-looking statements contained in this report may include, but are not limited to, statements about: future business, social and environmental performance, goals and measures; our anticipated growth prospects and trends in markets and industries relevant to our business; business and investment plans; expectations about our ability to maintain or enhance our leadership position in the markets in which we participate; future consumer demand and behavior, including expectations about excess inventory utilization by customers; 38 Table of Contents our ability to effectively compete in the markets in which we operate; future products and technology, and the expected availability and benefits of such products and technology; development of regulatory frameworks for current and future technology; changes in regulation and trade policy, including increased tariffs, in regions in which we operate, including the U.S., Europe and China; projected cost and pricing trends; future production capacity and product supply; potential future benefits and competitive advantages associated with our technologies and architecture and the data we have accumulated; the future purchase, use and availability of products, components and services supplied by third parties, including third-party IP and manufacturing services; uncertain events or assumptions, including statements relating to our estimated vehicle production and market opportunity, potential production volumes associated with design wins and other characterizations of future events or circumstances; effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and responses to future pandemics; availability, uses, sufficiency and cost of capital and capital resources, including expected returns to stockholders such as dividends, and the expected timing of future dividends; tax- and accounting-related expectations; adverse conditions in Israel, including in connection with the Israeli military operations in response to the October 7, 2023 terrorist attacks, which may affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our solutions; any disruption in our operations by the obligations of our personnel to perform military service as a result of current or future military actions involving Israel; and other statements described in this report and under the sections entitled Risk Factors, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business, in our 2023 Form 10-K. The risk factors discussed under the section entitled Risk Factors included in our 2023 Form 10-K could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. There also may be other risks that are currently unknown to us or that we are unable to predict at this time. 39 Table of Contents