Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Chavant Capital Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements for purposes of the federal securities laws. Our forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our or our management teams expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions or strategies regarding the future. In addition, any statements that refer to projections, forecasts or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, including any underlying assumptions, are forward-looking statements. The words anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intends, may, might, plan, possible, potential, predict, project, should, will, would and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements, but the absence of these words does not mean that a statement is not forward-looking. Forward-looking statements in this report may include, for example, statements about: the anticipated benefits of the proposed business combination with Mobix Labs, Inc. (Mobix Labs) that we announced on November 16, 2022 (the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction), upon the consummation of which, we will change our name to Mobix Labs, Inc. (New Mobix Labs); the anticipated benefits of the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction; the anticipated costs associated with the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction; future capital requirements and sources and uses of cash; New Mobix Labs financial and business performance following the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction, including financial projections; changes in New Mobix Labs strategy, future operations, financial position, estimated revenues and losses, forecasts, projected costs, prospects and plans; any other risks relating to the Proposed Mobix Transaction that we may describe in a future registration statement or proxy statement relating to that transaction; our officers and directors allocating their time to other businesses and potentially having conflicts of interest with our business or in approving the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction or any other initial business combination; the ability of our officers and directors to generate other initial business combination opportunities if we are unable to complete the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction or another initial business combination; our public securities potential liquidity and trading; the lack of a market for our securities; the use of proceeds not held in the trust account or available to us from interest income on the trust account balance; and the trust account not being subject to claims of third parties. The forward-looking statements contained in this report are based on our current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting us will be those that we have anticipated. These forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties (some of which are beyond our control) or other assumptions that may cause actual results or performance to be materially different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those factors described under the heading Risk Factors in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2023 and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 20 Table of Contents ended December 31, 2022. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable securities laws. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on March 19, 2021 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination. We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenue to date. Based on our business activities, the Company is a shell company as defined under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) because we have no operations and nominal assets consisting almost entirely of cash. Initial Public Offering On July 22, 2021, we consummated our IPO of 8,000,000 units. Each unit consists of one ordinary share (the Public Shares and such holders, the Public Shareholders) and three-fourths of one redeemable warrant (a Public Warrant). Each whole warrant entitles the holder thereof to purchase one ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share. The units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per unit, generating gross proceeds, before expenses, of $80,000,000. Prior to the consummation of the IPO, on April 7, 2021, the Company issued 2,875,000 ordinary shares, par value $0.0001 (the Founder Shares), for which the Sponsor paid $25,000. On June 25, 2021, the Sponsor sold an aggregate of 422,581 of such Founder Shares to the underwriters for a purchase price of $3,675. On July 19, 2021, the Company reduced the offering size of the IPO and 575,000 Founder Shares were surrendered to the Company for cancellation for no consideration, resulting in 2,300,000 Founder Shares outstanding. On September 5, 2021, the underwriters over-allotment option expired unexercised, resulting in the forfeiture of an additional 300,000 Founder Shares. As a result, a total of 2,000,000 Founder Shares remains outstanding and represents 20% of the Companys issued and outstanding ordinary shares. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, pursuant to the Sponsor Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated July 19, 2021, by and between the Company and the Sponsor, and the Representative Designees Private Placement Warrants Purchase Agreement, dated July 19, 2021, by and between the Company and the underwriters and their respective permitted designees, the Company completed the private sale of 3,400,000 warrants (the Private Warrants) to the Sponsor and the underwriters at a purchase price of $1.00 per Private Warrant, generating gross proceeds to the Company of $3,400,000 (the Private Placement). The Private Warrants are identical to the Public Warrants included as part of the Units sold in the IPO, except that the Private Warrants, so long as they are held by the initial purchasers or their permitted transferees, (i) are not redeemable by the Company, (ii) may not (including the ordinary shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants), subject to certain limited exceptions, be transferred, assigned or sold until 30 days after the completion of the Companys initial business combination, (iii) may be exercised on a cashless basis and (iv) are entitled to registration rights. No underwriting discounts and commissions were paid with respect to such sale. The issuance of the Private Warrants was made pursuant to the exemption from registration contained in Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. After deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and incurred offering costs, a total of $80,000,000 of the proceeds from the IPO and the proceeds of the sale of the Private Warrants was placed in the trust account at J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the Trust Account) maintained by Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, acting as trustee. Except with respect to interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account that may be released to the Company to pay its taxes and up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses, the funds held in the Trust Account will not be released from the Trust Account until the earliest of (i) the completion of the Companys initial business combination, (ii) the redemption of any Public Shares properly submitted in connection with a shareholder vote to amend the Companys Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (A) to modify the substance or timing of the Companys obligation to redeem 100% of the Public Shares if it does not complete its initial business combination by January 22, 2024 (or within any extended period of time that we may have to consummate an initial business combination as a result of an amendment to our Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association) or (B) with respect to any other material provisions relating to shareholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity or (iii) the redemption of the Companys Public Shares if it is unable to complete its initial business combination by January 22, 2024 (or by the end of any such extended period of time), subject to applicable law. The proceeds deposited in the Trust Account could become subject to the claims of our creditors, if any, which could have priority over the claims of our Public Shareholders. The proceeds held in the Trust Account have been, and will be, invested only in U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act that invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations. 21 Table of Contents Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the IPO and the sale of Private Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a business combination. After the payment of underwriting discounts and commissions and $458,249 in expenses relating to the IPO, $1,693,616 of the net proceeds of the IPO and Private Placement was not deposited into the Trust Account and was retained by us for working capital purposes. In connection with the extensions of the date by which the Company must consummate an initial business combination approved by our shareholders on July 14, 2022, January 6, 2023 and July 18, 2023, amounts were withdrawn from the Trust Account to redeem ordinary shares of our shareholders who exercised their right to redeem them, as described in Liquidity and Capital Resources below. The remaining net proceeds deposited into the Trust Account are on deposit in the Trust Account earning interest. As of September 30, 2023, there was $8,676,157 in investments and cash held in the Trust Account and $7,525 of cash held outside the Trust Account available for working capital purposes. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to raise capital or to complete the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction or another initial business combination will be successful. Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction On November 15, 2022, the Company and Mobix Labs, a Delaware corporation, entered into a business combination agreement (the Business Combination Agreement), by and among the Company, Mobix Labs and CLAY Merger Sub II, Inc., a Delaware corporation and newly formed, wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company (Merger Sub), pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into Mobix Labs, with Mobix Labs surviving the merger as a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of the Company. In connection with the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction, the Company will take the steps necessary to transfer its registration from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware (the Domestication), where it will then immediately incorporate as a Delaware corporation. The Company will also issue one share of Class A Common Stock in exchange for and on conversion in connection with the Domestication of each ordinary share outstanding immediately prior to the Domestication and will issue a warrant exercisable for one share of Class A Common Stock in exchange for and on conversion in connection with the Domestication of each warrant outstanding immediately prior to the Domestication. Upon closing of the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction, the combined company will be named Mobix Labs, Inc., and its common stock and warrants are expected to be listed on Nasdaq. The Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction includes a subscription agreement with the PIPE Investor in respect of a private placement of 3,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock at a price of $10.00 per share for an aggregate amount of $30,000,000, subject to, among other things, the approval of the Proposed Mobix Labs Transaction by the Companys shareholders and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the Business Combination Agreement, including a Form S-4 registration statement being declared effective by the SEC. On April 7, 2023, the Company, Mobix Labs and Merger Sub entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Business Combination Agreement, pursuant to which, the parties have agreed, among other things, that certain securities issued subsequent to March 26, 2023, referred to as Post-March 26 Financing Securities, will not be included in the calculation of the Company Fully Diluted Number under the Business Combination Agreement, with the effect that the Per Share Exchange Ratio (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement) will not be reduced on account of such issuances. Post-March 26 Financing Securities are defined in the Amendment No. 1 as any shares of (i) common stock of Mobix Labs or (ii) common stock of Mobix Labs issuable upon exercise or conversion of warrants, convertible instruments or convertible debt of Mobix Labs, in each case, where such securities were issued for cash and in accordance with Sections 6.01(b)(iii) and (xix) of the Business Combination Agreement, as a result of, or in connection with, any private placement entered into by Mobix Labs after March 26, 2023. Except with the consent of the Company (which consent shall not be unreasonably conditioned, withheld or delayed), Mobix Labs must use the proceeds of the issuance of any Post-March 26 Financing Securities to finance the ongoing business operations of Mobix Labs or to pay transaction expenses. In addition, Amendment No. 1 extended the outside date under the Business Combination Agreement from July 22, 2023 to November 22, 2023. Nasdaq Notice of Non-Compliance With a Continued Listing Rule On March 23, 2023, the Company received a notice (the MVLS Notice) from the Listing Qualifications Department (the Staff) of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the Market Value of Listed Securities (as defined in the Nasdaq Listing Rules) (MVLS) for the Companys ordinary shares was below the $35 million minimum MVLS requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market (the MVLS Rule). In accordance with the Nasdaq Listing Rules, the Company had 180 calendar days (i.e., until September 19, 2023) to regain compliance with the MVLS Rule. 22 Table of Contents On August 24, 2023, the Company received a notice (the Minimum Public Holders Notice) from the Staff, notifying the Company that it currently does not have at least 300 Public Holders for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market (the Minimum Public Holders Rule and, together with the MVLS Rule, the Rules)). The Minimum Public Holders Notice followed the Companys communication to the Staff that it was not in compliance with the Minimum Public Holders Rule on August 18, 2023. The Minimum Public Holders Notice stated that the Company had 45 calendar days to submit a plan to regain compliance with the Minimum Public Holders Rule, which the Company submitted on October 9, 2023. On September 20, 2023, the Company received a notice of a determination of delisting (the First Delisting Notice) from the Staff. The First Delisting Notice referenced the MVLS Notice and stated that the Company had not regained compliance with the MVLS Rule within the required 180-day period and that the ordinary shares and the other listed securities of the Company would be subject to delisting unless the Company timely requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the Panel). Accordingly, on September 22, 2023, the Company submitted a request for a hearing before the Panel. On September 22, 2023, the Company received a letter from the Staff stating that a hearing has been scheduled for November 9, 2023 (the Hearing) and that the Staffs delisting action referenced in the First Delisting Notice has been stayed pending a final written decision by the Panel. On October 18, 2023, the Company received an additional notice of a determination of delisting (the Second Delisting Notice) from the Staff. The Second Delisting Notice referenced (i) the Hearing and (ii) the Companys previously reported failure to satisfy the Minimum Public Holders Rule. The Second Delisting Notice stated that the Companys failure to satisfy the Minimum Public Holders Rule serves as an additional basis for delisting the Companys ordinary shares and other listed securities and notified the Company that the Panel would consider this matter at the Hearing in rendering a determination regarding the Companys continued listing on Nasdaq. On October 20, 2023, the Company submitted a plan of compliance to the Staff with respect to the Minimum Public Holders Rule and the MVLS Rule in preparation for the Hearing. On November 9, 2023, the Company presented to the Panel at the Hearing its plan for regaining compliance with the Rules and its request that the Panel grant additional time for the Company to regain compliance. The Panel has the authority to grant additional time not exceeding 180 days from the First Delisting Notice, or March 18, 2024, for the Company to demonstrate compliance with the Rules (the Compliance Extension). The Company expects that the Panel will issue its written decision regarding the Compliance Extension within 30 days of the date after the Hearing. While the Panel has the authority to grant the Compliance Extension, there can be no assurance that the Company will be granted such Compliance Extension or be able to regain or maintain compliance with Nasdaq listing standards. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any operating revenues to date. Our only activities from inception through September 30, 2023 were organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the IPO and, subsequent to the IPO, the process of evaluating and pursuing an initial business combination. We have evaluated over 80 potential acquisition targets, including targets that were identified by our management, advisory partners and representatives. Over the course of such evaluations, we entered into 34 non-disclosure agreements and submitted eight non-binding indications of interest or letters of intent in connection with certain of these acquisition opportunities, including with Mobix Labs. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our initial business combination. We expect to generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held after the IPO. We have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur, increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with searching for, and completing, an initial business combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2023, we had a net loss of approximately $6,000, which was driven by operating costs of approximately $239,000, partially offset by the change in the fair value of the warrant liability of approximately $57,000, approximately $87,000 from the change in fair value of PIPE derivative liability and approximately $89,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, we had a net loss of approximately $576,000, which was driven by operating costs of approximately $1,010,000 and approximately $135,000 from the change in fair value of PIPE derivative liability, partially offset by approximately $256,000 from the change in the fair value of the warrant liability and approximately $313,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. For the three months ended September 30, 2022, we had a net loss of approximately $63,000, which consisted of income of approximately $119,000 derived from fair value of warrant liabilities and interest earned on marketable securities held in our Trust 23 Table of Contents Account of approximately $111,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account, offset by operating costs of approximately $293,000. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we had a net income of approximately $576,000, which consisted of income of approximately $1,531,000 derived from fair value of warrant liabilities and approximately $149,000 of interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account, offset by operating costs of approximately $1,104,000. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2023, there were $8,676,157 in investments and cash held in the Trust Account, $7,525 of cash held outside the Trust Account available for working capital purposes and a working capital deficiency of $2,228,432. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account, which interest will be net of taxes payable, to complete our initial business combination. We may withdraw interest from the Trust Account to pay taxes, if any. To the extent that our share capital or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete a business combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a business combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial business combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our business combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Public Shares upon completion of our business combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such business combination. The Company anticipates that the cash held outside of the Trust Account as of September 30, 2023 will not be sufficient to allow the Company to operate for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of the financial statements, assuming that a business combination is not consummated during that time. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, significant costs in pursuit of its acquisition plans. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern for a period of time within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. Management plans to address this uncertainty through the initial business combination as discussed in this report. In addition, the Company has borrowed the Working Capital Loans described below to fund its working capital requirements and may continue to do so. The Companys plans to consummate an initial business combination may not be successful or may not be successful before the required deadline. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied through the $25,000 capital contribution to purchase Founder Shares by our Sponsor, the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account and loans from our Sponsor. In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Transaction, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, provide us with Working Capital Loans, as defined and described below. Until the consummation of the IPO, our only source of liquidity was our Sponsors purchase of Founder Shares and loans from our Sponsor. On July 22, 2021, we consummated the IPO of 8,000,000 Units, at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $80,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, we consummated the sale of 3,400,000 Private Warrants to the Sponsor and the underwriters at a price of $1.00 per Private Warrant, generating gross proceeds of $3,400,000. After the payment of underwriting discounts and commissions and $458,249 in expenses relating to the IPO, $1,693,616 of the net proceeds of the IPO and Private Placement was not deposited into the Trust Account and was retained by us for working capital purposes. The net proceeds deposited into the Trust Account are on deposit in the Trust Account earning interest. On July 14, 2022, the Company held an extraordinary general meeting and obtained shareholder approval of the extension of the date by which the Company must consummate an initial business combination from July 22, 2022 to January 22, 2023 by amending the Companys Existing Charter (the First Extension Amendment). The First Extension Amendment became effective upon approval of the Companys shareholders. In connection with the First Extension Amendment, shareholders holding 7,046,967 ordinary shares of the Company exercised their right to redeem their ordinary shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, $70,573,278 was deducted from the Trust Account to pay such holders. As a result of redemption payments and above-mentioned extensions, the Company deposited $31,450 (at a rate of $0.033 per non-redeeming Public Share) for each subsequent monthly period. At another extraordinary general meeting on January 6, 2023, our shareholders were asked to approve a further extension of the date by which we must consummate an initial business combination from January 22, 2023 to July 22, 2023. The proposal was approved, and 24 Table of Contents certain of our shareholders holding 96,991 ordinary shares exercised their right to redeem their shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, $1,004,600 (approximately $10.36 per share) was deducted from the Trust Account to pay such holders. In connection with the Second Extension, we deposited $42,802 (at a rate of $0.05 per non-redeeming Public Share) for each required subsequent monthly period needed by the Company to complete a business combination by July 22, 2023. At another extraordinary general meeting on July 18, 2023, our shareholders were asked to approve (i) a further extension of the date by which we must consummate an initial business combination from July 22, 2023 to January 22, 2024 and (ii) an amendment of the Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association to eliminate from the Amended and Restated Memorandum and Articles of Association (a) the limitation that the Company shall not redeem the Public Shares to the extent that such redemption would cause the Companys net tangible assets to be less than $5,000,001 and (b) the limitation that the Company shall not consummate a business combination unless the Company has net tangible assets of at least $5,000,001 immediately prior to, or upon consummation of, or any greater net tangible asset or cash requirement that may be contained in the agreement relating to, such business combination (collectively, the Redemption Limitation). In connection with this meeting, certain of our shareholders holding 77,130 ordinary shares exercised their right to redeem their shares for a pro rata portion of the funds in the Trust Account. As a result, $841,808 (approximately $10.91 per share) was deducted from the Trust Account to pay such holders. In connection with the Third Extension, we agreed to deposit $38,946 (at a rate of $0.05 per non-redeeming Public Share) for each subsequent monthly period needed by the Company to complete a business combination by January 22, 2024. As of September 30, 2023, the Company had deposited an aggregate of $562,350 into the Trust Account in connection with the First Extension Amendment, the Second Extension and Third Extension, which amounts were funded by the promissory notes issued to the Sponsor, and the Trust Account had a total balance of $8,676,157. Working Capital Loans In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a business combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor or certain of our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a business combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. In the event that a business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts, but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants, at a price of $1.00 per warrant, at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the Private Warrants. On June 20, 2022, the Company issued an unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $360,000 to the Sponsor under which the Company was permitted to draw down Working Capital Loans from time to time prior to the maturity date (December 31, 2023) up to such aggregate principal amount. On July 18, 2022, the Company issued an additional unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $490,000 to the Sponsor under which the Company was permitted to draw down Working Capital Loans from time to time prior to the maturity date (December 31, 2023) up to such aggregate principal amount. Any Working Capital Loans under the promissory notes issued on June 20, 2022 and July 18, 2022 are due on the earlier of five business days after the Companys initial business combination and December 31, 2023. On January 6, 2023, the Company issued an unsecured convertible promissory note in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000 to the Sponsor, under which the Company was permitted to draw down Working Capital Loans from time to time prior to the maturity date (July 31, 2024) up to such aggregate principal amount. The Company drew down the full amount of the Working Capital Loans under such promissory note. The Working Capital Loan under this promissory note is due on the earlier of five business days after the Companys initial business combination and July 31, 2024. On July 18, 2023, the Company drew down an additional $48,000, resulting in aggregate of $1,150,000 of Working Capital Loans drawn down under the foregoing convertible promissory notes. As of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the Company had drawn down $1,150,000 and $662,000, respectively, of Working Capital Loans under the foregoing convertible promissory notes. The Chairman of the board of directors of the Company or an entity affiliated with him and another existing investor in the Sponsor and/or persons affiliated with such investor provided funds to the Sponsor for the foregoing Working Capital Loans. If the Sponsor elected to convert the loans under the convertible promissory notes into Warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant and such converted warrants were exercised at a price of $11.50 per share, a maximum of 1,150,000 shares of Class A Common Stock could be issued. 25 Table of Contents On June 22, 2023, the Company issued an unsecured non-convertible note in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000 to the Sponsor under which the Company may draw down Working Capital Loans from time to time prior to the maturity date up to such aggregate principal amount. The promissory note bears interest at the rate of 10.0% per annum and is payable in full in cash upon the earlier of (i) the consummation of an initial business combination and (ii) one year from the date of issuance. As of November 14, 2023, the Company had drawn down $400,000 under this promissory note. The Chairman of the board of directors of the Company or an entity affiliated with the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company provided or will provide the funds to the Sponsor for the Working Capital Loans under this promissory note. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, the Company had drawn down a total of $1,350,000 and $662,000, respectively, of Working Capital Loans under all of its convertible and non-convertible promissory notes. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet, other than as described above under Working Capital Loans. In addition, pursuant to the Business Combination Marketing Agreement among the Company, Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC, a marketing fee of up to 3.5% of the gross proceeds of the Chavant IPO will become payable to Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC only if the Company consummates a business combination. If a business combination does not occur, the Company will not be required to pay these contingent fees. We have recently engaged in discussions with Roth Capital Partners, LLC and Craig-Hallum Capital Group LLC regarding the amount of the marketing fee and any services that they may provide. These discussions are not complete, but we may pay them an amount up to the amount indicated above. There can be no assurances that the Company will complete a business combination. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the period reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have not identified any critical accounting estimates other than the following: PIPE Investments Derivative Liability The PIPE Subscription Agreement, as a freestanding financial instrument, is accounted for as a liability in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 815 (ASC 815) Derivatives and Hedging and is presented as PIPE derivative liability on the September 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 balance sheets, respectively. The PIPE derivative liability was measured at fair value at inception and is measured at fair value on a recurring basis, which changes in fair value are presented within change in fair value of PIPE derivative liability in the statement of operations. In order to capture the market conditions associated with the PIPE derivative liability, the Company applied an approach that incorporated a Monte Carlo simulation, which involved random iterations of future stock-price paths for the Adjustment Period VWAP (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement). Based on assumptions regarding the probability of the closing of a business combination and the terms of the Make-Whole Features, the fair value of the PIPE derivative liability was determined based on the estimated Adjustment Period VWAP within each simulated path and by taking the average of the estimated Adjustment Period VWAPs. The key assumptions in the Monte Carlo model utilized were assumptions related to expected share-price volatility, expected term, the risk-free interest rate and the dividend yield. Please refer to Note 7 of the financial statements for key inputs used in the Monte Carlo model. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements. JOBS Act The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act and are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new 26 Table of Contents or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an independent registered public accounting firms attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the independent registered public accounting firms report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis), and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the IPO or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.