Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included the Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current beliefs that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, such as statements regarding our plans, objectives, expectations, intentions, and projections. Our actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those described in or implied by these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should carefully read the Risk Factors section to gain an understanding of the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our forward-looking statements. All amounts herein are in thousands, except share and per share amounts. Overview Based in Irvine, California, we are a fabless semiconductor company developing disruptive wireless mmWave 5G and C-Band wireless solutions and delivering connectivity and electromagnetic filtering products for next generation communications systems supporting the aerospace, military, defense, medical and other markets requiring high reliability (HiRel) and HiRel products. To enhance our product portfolio, we also intend to pursue acquisitions of companies with existing revenue which can be scaled, and which possess technologies that accelerate the speed, accessibility, and efficiency of disruptive or more efficient communications solutions, and which will also allow us to expand into strategically aligned industries. Our wireless mmWave 5G integrated circuits currently in development are designed to deliver significant advantages in performance, efficiency, size, and cost. Our True Xero active optical cables (AOCs), which have been in production for several years and were acquired in the Cosemi acquisition, are designed to meet customer needs for high-quality active optical cable solutions at an affordable price. Our electromagnetic interference (EMI) filtering products, which were acquired in the EMI Solutions, Inc. (EMI Solutions) acquisition, are designed for, and are currently used in aerospace, military, defense and medical applications. These innovative technologies are designed for large and rapidly growing markets where there is increasing demand for higher performance communication and filtering systems which utilize an expanding mix of both wireless and connectivity technologies. On December 21, 2023, we consummated the merger pursuant to the business combination agreement, dated November 15, 2022 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified, the Business Combination Agreement), by and among Chavant, CLAY Merger Sub II, Inc., a Delaware corporation and newly formed, wholly-owned direct subsidiary of Chavant (Merger Sub), and Mobix Labs, Inc. (Legacy Mobix), a Delaware corporation, pursuant to which, among other things, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Mobix, with Legacy Mobix surviving the merger as a wholly-owned direct subsidiary of Chavant (together with the other transactions related thereto, the Merger). In connection with the consummation of the Merger (the Closing), Chavant changed its name from Chavant Capital Acquisition Corp. to Mobix Labs, Inc. (the Company) and Legacy Mobix changed its name from Mobix Labs, Inc. to Mobix Labs Operations, Inc. Throughout this discussion, unless otherwise noted or otherwise suggested by context, all references to we, us or our refer to Legacy Mobix prior to the consummation of the Merger, and to the Company and its subsidiaries after the consummation of the Merger. 33 We were founded with the goal of simplifying the development and maximizing the performance of wireless mmWave wireless 5G products by designing and developing high performance, cost-effective, and ultra-compact semiconductor components and solutions used for signal processing applications in wireless products. Since our inception, our corporate strategy has evolved to encompass the pursuit of acquisitions in diverse industry sectors, including aerospace, military, defense, medical and HiRel technology, as part of our commitment to enhancing communication services. We have developed and/or acquired an extensive intellectual property portfolio comprised of patents and trade secrets that are critical to commercializing our communication products and communications technologies. In leveraging our proprietary technology, we aim to scale the growth of our product revenue for our integrated circuits and components by serving large and rapidly growing markets where we believe there are increasing demands for higher performance communication technologies, including both wireless and connectivity systems. We are actively pursuing customer engagements with manufacturers of wireless communications, aerospace, military, defense, medical and HiRel products. In 2021, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets including intellectual property of Cosemi, an Irvine, California-based global supplier of high-speed connectivity solutions. Cosemis intellectual property portfolio included a broad range of AOCs and optical engines that deliver optimal connectivity to a wide range of applications, including home entertainment, gaming, augmented reality and virtual reality, video conferencing, medical, mobile devices and monitors, among others. The acquisition of Cosemi built the foundation for our current connectivity business. We believe the patented cable technology and AOC optical chip solutions from Cosemi along with our innovative wireless semiconductor technologies provide more opportunities in the wireless C-Band and mmWave 5G market as the need for faster, more reliable data transmission becomes ever more apparent, whether it is for the data center, infrastructure, home entertainment or consumer electronics market. Recent Developments Agreement to Acquire RaGE Systems Inc. On May 8, 2024, we entered into an agreement (the RaGE Business Combination Agreement) to acquire RaGE Systems, Inc. (RaGE Systems) for aggregate consideration of $12,000. RaGE Systems specializes in developing products for 5G communications, mmWave imaging, and software defined radio targeting the commercial, industrial, and defense and aerospace sectors. As consideration for the acquisition, we will issue the sellers a number of shares of our Class A Common Stock equal to the quotient of (a) $10,000 divided by (b) the VWAP (as defined in the RaGE Business Combination Agreement) of our Class A Common Stock for the fifteen trading days up to and including the fifth business day prior to the closing date. In addition, we will pay the sellers an aggregate of $2,000 in cash, of which $200 will be payable on the closing date; $1,000 will be payable on November 15, 2024 and $800 will be payable on April 15, 2025. We will also enter into employment agreements with each of the RaGE stockholders. Pursuant to the RaGE Business Combination Agreement, the RaGE stockholders will also be entitled to receive possible earn-out payments of up to $8,000 over eight fiscal quarters, payable in a combination of cash and shares of our Class A Common Stock, based upon the satisfaction of certain financial metrics and continued employment with us. The RaGE Business Combination Agreement also provides the RaGE stockholders with piggy-back registration rights, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions. Consummation of the acquisition is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including the satisfactory completion of our due diligence investigation, set forth in the RaGE Business Combination Agreement. Committed Equity Facility In March 2024, we entered into a Purchase Agreement (Purchase Agreement) and a related Registration Rights Agreement with B. Riley Principal Capital II (B. Riley) which provides us the right, in our sole discretion, and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth therein, to sell to B. Riley up to 9,500,000 newly issued shares of our Class A Common Stock (the Purchase Shares) (subject to certain limitations) from time to time. Any sales of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, and the timing of any sales, are solely at our option, and we are under no obligation to sell any securities to B. Riley. The per share purchase price that B. Riley will pay for shares of Class A Common Stock will be determined by reference to the volume weighted average price of the Class A Common Stock measured over the regular trading session or intraday period of the trading session on Nasdaq on the date of each purchase, less a three percent discount. As of March 31, 2024, we had not sold any shares under the Purchase Agreement. The amount and timing of the proceeds, if any, that we may receive from the sale of shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will depend on a number of factors, including the numbers of shares we may elect to sell, the timing of such sales, the future market price of our Class A Common stock and our payment of the cash commitment fee. See the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. The Merger We accounted for the Merger as a reverse recapitalization. Under this method of accounting, Chavant is treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. This determination was primarily based on holders of Legacy Mobix capital stock comprising a majority of the voting power of our common stock upon consummation of the Merger and having the ability to nominate the majority of our board of directors, Legacy Mobix senior management comprising our senior management, and Legacy Mobix operations comprising our ongoing operations. Accordingly, for accounting purposes, our financial statements represent a continuation of the financial statements of Legacy Mobix with the Merger being treated as the equivalent of Legacy Mobix issuing shares for the net assets of Chavant, accompanied by a recapitalization. We recognized the net assets of Chavant as of the Closing at historical cost, with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. Our operations prior to the Merger are presented as those of Legacy Mobix and the accumulated deficit of Legacy Mobix has been carried forward after Closing. All issued and outstanding securities of Chavant at the time of the Closing were treated as issuances of securities by us upon the consummation of the Merger. 34 As a result of the Merger, we raised gross proceeds of $21,014, including the contribution of $1,264 of cash held in Chavants trust account and the $19,750 private investment in public equity (PIPE) at $10.00 per share of Chavants Class A Common Stock (Class A Common Stock). Our Class A Common Stock and Public Warrants (Public Warrants) began trading on The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbols MOBX and MOBXW, respectively, on December 22, 2023. Acquisition of EMI Solutions, Inc. On December 18, 2023, we completed the acquisition of EMI Solutions when we acquired all of the issued and outstanding common shares of EMI Solutions. EMI Solutions is a manufacturer of electromagnetic interference filtering products for aerospace, military, defense and medical applications. We expect the acquisition of EMI Solutions to complement our existing product offerings, expand our customer base and allow us to deliver solutions that address a wider variety of applications and markets. Consideration for the acquisition of EMI Solutions consisted of 964,912 shares of Legacy Mobix common stock and $2,200 in cash. We valued the common stock at $8,856, based on the fair value of the Legacy Mobix common stock at the time of the acquisition. Additional details of our accounting for our acquisition of EMI Solutions are included in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. Cost Reductions To address our capital limitations and focus our use of cash on the completion of the Merger, which closed on December 21, 2023, and our acquisition of EMI Solutions, which closed on December 18, 2023, we reduced our headcount and temporarily furloughed approximately half of our employees on an unpaid basis since the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023. We also reduced our use of outside services and other costs and deferred discretionary expenditures. As a result of these actions, we reduced our operating expensesmainly in research and developmentfor the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the comparable fiscal 2023 periods. In January 2024, we permanently reduced our headcount by approximately 35%, consisting of employees previously placed on temporary furlough. Financing Activities During the six months ended March 31, 2024, we had additional financing activity, principally consisting of the issuance of promissory notes, convertible notes and Legacy Mobix common stock. See Liquidity and Capital Resources, below, and our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. COVID-19 Pandemic, Supply Chain Disruptions and Impact of Inflation The COVID-19 pandemic has caused, and may continue to cause, a disruption and restrictions on our ability to travel, temporary closures of our office buildings and the facilities of our customers or suppliers, cancellations or modification of events, and disruptions at our manufacturers and suppliers located in Vietnam, Taiwan and China, including the COVID-19 lockdown in Shanghai in the first half of 2022 that led to substantial delays in our supply chain in China. We have experienced delays in shipments and product launches that have negatively impacted our sales and operating results relating to our connectivity business, and any future delays, due to pandemics or otherwise, could have a materially negative effect in the future. We also experienced a decline in revenue for the year ended September 30, 2023 due to a decrease in product sales resulting from supply chain constraints that limited our ability to meet demand from our largest customer. In addition, the COVID-19 lockdown in Vietnam triggered operational and solvency challenges for our Vietnamese manufacturer beginning in the first half of calendar year 2023. In response, we transitioned to higher cost manufacturers in Taiwan in July 2023 to ramp up production. However, this shift has resulted, and will continue to result in, lower margins than expected. 35 To help mitigate the COVID-19 related disruptions at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we experienced a delay in our supply chain to support our orders, we used higher cost shipping and manufacturing alternatives. Additional COVID-19 disruptions limited our supply availability, forcing us to move to less cost-effective components and materials. The higher cost shipping and manufacturing alternatives and components and materials resulting from supply chain disruptions negatively impacted our gross margin more than we anticipated in our outlook for our business. These constraints continue to exist and are expected to continue to materially impact our gross margin percentage. We are continuing to implement operational measures to minimize the turnaround time in fulfilling our orders. We are also currently designing and plan to introduce lower cost products as alternatives with more competitively priced components, aiming to maintain performance standards. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be sufficient to offset the negative impact of supply chain disruptions on our gross margin and net loss. In addition to general levels of inflation that we have experienced, we are also subject to risk of specific inflationary pressures due to the expected continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and related global supply chain disruptions, including increases in commodity prices for materials and components and shipping costs that have had a negative impact on our gross margin. If inflation remains high or increases, our gross margin and results of operations will be further negatively impacted. To mitigate the effect of inflation, as described above, we are designing and plan to introduce lower cost products as alternatives with more competitively priced components, aiming to maintain performance standards. In addition, we have qualified another Taiwanese manufacturer for our connectivity products to foster competition among our manufacturers. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be sufficient to offset the negative impact of inflation on our gross margin and net loss. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months and Six Months Ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023 (dollars in thousands) Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Net revenue Product sales $ 1,145 $ 32 1,113 3,478 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenue 952 209 743 356 % Research and development 1,397 2,633 (1,236 ) (47 )% Selling, general and administrative 7,358 9,029 (1,671 ) (19 )% Loss from operations (8,562 ) (11,839 ) 3,277 (28 )% Interest expense 248 794 (546 ) (69 )% Change in fair value of earnout liability (5,174 ) (5,174 ) nm Change in fair value of PIPE make-whole liability (3,336 ) (3,336 ) nm Change in fair value of private warrants 420 420 nm Change in fair value of SAFEs 508 (508 ) (100 )% Other non-operating losses, net 1,049 1,049 nm Loss before income taxes (1,769 ) (13,141 ) 11,372 (87 )% Provision for income taxes (16 ) 1 (17 ) Nm Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (1,753 ) $ (13,142 ) $ 11,389 (87 )% nm indicates amount is not meaningful. 36 (dollars in thousands) Six months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ % Net revenue Product sales $ 1,430 $ 711 719 101 % Costs and expenses Cost of revenue 1,281 903 378 42 % Research and development 2,959 6,050 (3,091 ) (51 )% Selling, general and administrative 23,021 14,823 8,198 55 % Loss from operations (25,831 ) (21,065 ) (4,766 ) 23 % Interest expense 1,105 877 228 26 % Change in fair value of earnout liability (29,938 ) (29,938 ) nm Change in fair value of PIPE make-whole liability (432 ) (432 ) nm Change in fair value of private warrants 480 480 nm Change in fair value of SAFEs 10 558 (548 ) (98 )% Merger-related transaction costs expensed 4,009 4,009 nm Other non-operating losses, net 1,049 1,049 nm Loss before income taxes (2,114 ) (22,500 ) 20,386 (91 )% Provision for income taxes (1,296 ) 32 (1,328 ) nm Net loss and comprehensive loss $ (818 ) $ (22,532 ) $ 21,714 (96 )% nm indicates amount is not meaningful. Net Revenue We derive our net revenues primarily from product sales to equipment manufacturers. We recognize product revenue when we satisfy performance obligations under the terms of our contracts and upon transfer of control when title transfers (either upon shipment to or receipt by the customer, as determined by the contractual shipping terms of the contract), net of accruals for estimated sales returns and allowances (which were not material for the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023). Sales and other taxes we collect, if any, are excluded from net revenue. Our revenues fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including the timing of the receipt of orders from our customers, product mix, competitor price offerings, global economic conditions, and other factors. Our net revenues were $1,145 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $32 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $1,113. The increase reflects the addition of $929 in sales of EMI filtering products, which we acquired in our December 18, 2023 acquisition of EMI Solutions. The increase also includes a $184 increase in sales of AOCs, which reflects the comparison against the quarter ended March 31, 2023, where our sales were adversely affected by supply chain constraints that limited our ability to fulfill customer orders. For the six months ended March 31, 2024 our net revenues were $1,430 compared to $711 for the six months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $719 or 101%. The change principally reflects the addition of $997 in sales of EMI filtering products, which we acquired in our acquisition of EMI Solutions. The increase in net revenues from our EMI filtering products was partly offset by a $278 decrease in sales of our AOCs, driven by reduced demand from our largest customer during the six months ended March 31, 2024. 37 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes costs of materials, contract manufacturing services for the assembly, testing and shipping products, inbound freight, amortization of acquired developed technology, inventory obsolescence charges and other product-related costs. Cost of revenue also includes employee compensation and benefits (including stock-based compensation) of employees engaged in the sourcing of products, facility costs and depreciation. Cost of revenue was $952 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $209 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $743 or 356%. The change principally reflects the increase in sales of our EMI filtering products as discussed above, as well as higher sales volume in our AOCs. Cost of revenue was $1,281 for the six months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $903 for the six months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $378 or 42%. The change principally reflects the increase in sales of our EMI filtering products as discussed above, partly offset by lower cost of revenue for AOCs, consistent with the lower sales volume for those products. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses represent costs of our product design and development activities, including employee compensation and benefits (including stock-based compensation), outside services, design tools, supplies, facility costs, depreciation and amortization of acquired developed technology. We expense all research and development costs as incurred. Research and development expenses were $1,397 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $2,633 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $1,236 or 47%. The decrease principally reflects lower employee compensation and benefits and lower stock-based compensation expense resulting from the cost reduction actions we initiated during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. Research and development expenses were $2,959 for the six months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $6,050 for the six months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $3,091 or 51%. The decrease principally reflects lower employee compensation and benefits, lower costs for outside services and lower stock-based compensation expense resulting from the cost reduction actions we initiated during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily include employee compensation and benefits (including stock-based compensation) of executive and administrative staff including human resources, accounting, information technology, sales and marketing, outside professional and legal fees, insurance, advertising and promotional programs, travel and entertainment, and facility costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses were $7,358 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $9,029 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $1,671 or 19%. The decrease principally reflects a $4,059 decrease in stock-based compensation expense, which was largely offset by increased employee compensation and benefits, the addition of selling, general and administrative costs resulting from our acquisition of EMI Solutions, and increased insurance costs. 38 Selling, general and administrative expenses were $23,021 for the six months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $14,823 for the six months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $8,198 or 55%. The increase principally reflects a $4,842 increase in stock-based compensation expense, increased costs for outside services and higher employee compensation and benefits. The increase also reflects the addition of selling, general and administrative costs resulting from our acquisition of EMI Solutions and increased insurance costs. The increase in stock-based compensation expense principally related to certain awards whose vesting is contingent on both the completion of the Merger and the satisfaction of a service condition. Prior to the Merger, we did not recognize any expense for these awards because completion of the Merger and vesting of the awards was not probable. Upon completion of the Merger, we concluded that the vesting of these awards was probable, and we recognized stock-based compensation expense of $14,088 for the portion of the service period that had elapsed from the date of the awards through March 31, 2024. This charge was partly offset by a $2,242 reduction of stock-based compensation expense we recognized in connection with the modification of a portion of these RSUs in connection with a separation of employment. We expect to recognize the remaining $33,414 cost of these awards ratably over the period through their vesting dates, which extend to December 2027. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of cash and non-cash interest related to our related and unrelated party promissory notes, notes payable and convertible notes. Interest expense was $248 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $794 for the three months ended March 31, 2023, a decrease of $546 or 69%. The decrease principally reflects higher costs in the three months ended March 31, 2023 for the value of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock that we issued in connection with borrowings. Interest expense was $1,105 for the six months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $877 for the six months ended March 31, 2023, an increase of $228 or 26%. The increase principally reflects higher costs in the six months ended March 31, 2024 for the value of warrants to purchase shares of our common stock that we issued in connection with borrowings. Change in Fair Value of Earnout Liability In connection with the Merger, certain Legacy Mobix stockholders and certain holders of Legacy Mobix stock options will be entitled to receive an additional aggregate 3,500,000 shares of our Class A Common Stock based on the achievement of trading price targets following the Closing over a seven-year earnout period. We account for the earnout shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determine the number of earnout shares to which the earnout recipients will be entitled include events that are not solely indexed to our common stock, and we remeasure the earnout liability to its estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. Additional information relating to the earnout liability can be found in Note 3 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. We estimated the fair value of the earnout liability as of the Closing of the Merger at $33,559. As of March 31, 2024, none of the conditions for the issuance of any earnout shares had been achieved and we adjusted the carrying amount of the earnout liability to its estimated fair value of $3,621. As a result of the decrease in the liability subsequent to the Closing, we recognized non-cash gains of $5,174 and $29,938, respectively, for the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in the estimated fair value of the earnout liability was principally due to the decrease in price of our Class A Common Stock between the Closing and March 31, 2024. The fair value of the earnout liability is based on a number of factors, including changes in the market price of our Class A Common Stock. We have experienced significant fluctuations in the market price of our Class A Common Stock in the period subsequent to the Closing, and may experience significant fluctuations in the future. Such price fluctuations will increase or decrease the value of the earnout liability, and we may be required to recognize additional losses or gains in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss, the amounts of which may be substantial. 39 Change in Fair Value of PIPE Make-Whole Liability In connection with the Merger, we agreed to issue additional shares of our Class A Common Stock to the holders of 2,454,737 shares of our Class A Common Stock in the event that the volume-weighted average price per share of our Class A Common Stock during a specified period is less than $10.00 per share. In such a case, we would be obligated to issue up to 1,052,030 additional shares of our Class A Common Stock. We account for the make-whole shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determine the number of make-whole shares we will be obligated to issue are not solely indexed to our common stock and we remeasure the PIPE make-whole liability to its estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. Additional information relating to the PIPE make-whole liability can be found in Note 3 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. We estimated the fair value of the PIPE make-whole liability as of Closing of the Merger at $2,071. As of March 31, 2024, the PIPE make-whole liability had not been settled and we adjusted the carrying amount of the make-whole liability to its estimated fair value of $1,639. As a result of the decrease in the liability subsequent to the Closing, we recognized non-cash gains of $3,336 and $432, respectively, for the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024. Future fluctuations in the market price of our Class A Common Stock will increase or decrease the value of the PIPE make-whole liability, and we may be required to recognize additional losses or gains in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss, the amounts of which may be substantial. Change in Fair Value of Private Warrants In connection with the Merger, we assumed 3,000,000 private warrants (the Private Warrants) originally issued by Chavant. Each warrant, as adjusted, entitles the holder to purchase one share of our Class A Common Stock at a price of $5.79 per share. The Private Warrants are exercisable at any time commencing thirty days after the completion of the Merger and terminating five years after the completion of the Merger. We concluded that the Private Warrants do not meet the derivative scope exception because they contain provisions that affect the settlement amounts dependent upon the characteristics of the holder of the warrant, which is not an input into the pricing of a fixed-for-fixed option on equity shares. Therefore, the Private Warrants are not considered indexed to our stock and must be classified as a liability. At the time of Closing, we estimated the aggregate fair value of the Private Warrants and recognized a liability of $150. As of March 31, 2024, the Private Warrants remained outstanding, and we adjusted the carrying amount of the liability to its estimated fair value of $630. This increase in the fair value of the liability subsequent to the Closing resulted in non-cash losses of $420 and $480, respectively, for the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024. Future fluctuations in the market price of our Class A Common Stock and other factors may increase or decrease the value of the liability for the Private Warrants, and we may be required to recognize additional losses or gains in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss, the amounts of which may be substantial. Change in Fair Value of SAFEs We evaluated the SAFEs and concluded that the SAFEs are classified as liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. We initially recorded the SAFEs at their fair value and remeasured the SAFEs to fair value at each subsequent reporting date. We estimated the fair value of the SAFEs immediately prior to the Merger was $1,522. In connection with the Merger, all of the outstanding SAFEs, representing an original purchase amount of $1,000, were converted into shares of our Class A Common Stock and the $1,522 fair value of the SAFEs was credited to equity, with no further gain or loss recognized. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, we did not recognize any gain or loss from changes in the estimated fair value of the SAFEs because the SAFEs were no longer outstanding. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the estimated fair value of the SAFEs increased by $508, and we recognized a $508 loss. For the six months ended March 31, 2024 and March 31, 2023, we recognized losses of $10 and $558, respectively, resulting from the change in the fair value of the SAFEs. As of March 31 2024, no SAFEs remain outstanding. 40 Other Non-Operating Losses, Net For the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024, other non-operating losses, net of $1,049 consisted of commitment and other fees of $1,575 payable under the committed equity facility, partly offset by gains of $526 on the change in the estimated fair value of liability-classified warrants to purchase shares of our Class A Common Stock issuable to a lender. We did not recognize any other non-operating losses, net during the three months and six months ended March 31, 2023. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax laws is recognized in the results of operations in the period the new laws are enacted. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amounts of our deferred tax assets unless it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized. For the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024 we recognized an income tax benefit of $16 and $1,296, respectively. In connection with our December 2023 acquisition of EMI Solutions, we recognized an additional deferred tax liability of $1,386 associated with acquired intangible assets. Based on the availability of these tax attributes, we determined that we expect to realize a greater portion of our existing deferred tax assets and for the six months ended March 31, 2024 we recognized an income tax benefit of $1,296 for the resulting reduction of the valuation allowance previously recorded against our deferred tax assets. For the three months and six months ended March 31, 2023, we did not recognize any tax benefit related to our pretax book losses of $13,141 and $22,500, respectively, because we did not expect that the deferred tax asset arising from our net operating losses would be realized in the future. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary use of cash is to fund operating expenses, working capital requirements, debt service obligations, capital expenditures and other investments. We have incurred operating losses and negative cash flows, primarily as a result of our ongoing investment in product development. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations associated with research and development expenses, selling, general, and administrative expenses and capital expenditures necessary to expand our operations, product offerings, and customer base with the ultimate goals of growing our business and achieving profitability in the future. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our unaudited condensed consolidated cash flows for the six months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023: (dollars in thousands) Six months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ Net cash used in operating activities $ (11,689 ) $ (8,710 ) $ (2,979 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,150 ) (15 ) (1,135 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 15,743 8,547 7,196 Net increase (decrease) in cash 2,904 (178 ) $ 3,082 Cash, beginning of period 89 178 Cash, end of period $ 2,993 $ 41 Operating Activities For the six months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in operating activities was $11,689, which included the impact of our net loss of $818 and net non-cash credits of $11,807, partly offset by net decreases in working capital items of $936. The net non-cash credits principally consisted of the $29,938 gain on the change in fair value of the earnout liability, a $432 gain on the change in the fair value of the PIPE make-whole liability and a deferred income tax benefit of $1,296, partially offset by stock-based compensation expense of $14,146 for stock options and restricted stock units, $4,009 of Merger related transaction costs expensed, $884 of expense for the issuance of warrants in connection with borrowings and $866 of depreciation and amortization expense. The net working capital decrease principally consists of an increase in accounts payable. For the six months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $8,710, which included the impact of our net loss of $22,532, partly offset by net non-cash charges of $11,512 and net decreases in working capital items of $2,310. The net non-cash charges principally consisted of the $9,635 of stock-based compensation expense for stock options and restricted stock units, $644 of expense for the issuance of warrants in connection with borrowings, a $558 loss on the change in the fair value of the SAFEs and $646 of depreciation and amortization expense. The net working capital decrease principally consists of an increase in accrued expenses. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $1,150 for the six months ended March 31, 2024 principally consisted of payments or the acquisition EMI, net of acquired cash. Net cash used in investing activities of $15 for the six months ended March 31, 2023 consisted of payments for the acquisition of property and equipment. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended March 31, 2024 of $15,743 consisted of the $21,014 proceeds from the merger and PIPE, $3,286 in proceeds from the issuance of common stock, and $446 in proceeds from issuance of notes payable and convertible notes. These amounts were partially offset by the payment of merger-related transaction costs of $6,796 and $2,207 of principal payments on notes payable (including payments of $1,030 on notes payablerelated parties). Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended March 31, 2023 of $8,547 consisted of $6,897 in proceeds from the issuance of common stock, $1,456 in proceeds from the issuance of notes payable and convertible notes and $900 in proceeds from the exercise of common stock warrants, partially offset by principal payments on notes payable of $456 and the payment of merger-related transaction costs of $250. Liquidity As of March 31, 2024, our cash balance was $2,993 compared to $89 at September 30, 2023. We had a working capital deficit of $13,579 as of March 31, 2024 compared to a working capital deficit of $19,593 at September 30, 2023. In March 2024, we entered into the Purchase Agreement and a related Registration Rights Agreement with B. Riley which provides us the right, in our sole discretion, and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth therein, to sell to B. Riley up to 9,500,000 Purchase Shares (subject to certain limitations) from time to time. Any sales of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, and the timing of any sales, are solely at our option, and we are under no obligation to sell any securities to B. Riley. The per share purchase price that B. Riley will pay for shares of Class A Common Stock will be determined by reference to the volume weighted average price of the Class A Common Stock measured over the regular trading session or intraday period of the trading session on Nasdaq on the date of each purchase, less a three percent discount. As of March 31, 2024, we had not sold any shares under the Purchase Agreement. The amount and timing of the proceeds, if any, that we may receive from the sale of shares of Class A Common Stock pursuant to the Purchase Agreement will depend on a number of factors, including the numbers of shares we may elect to sell, the timing of such sales, the future market price of our Class A Common stock and our payment of the cash commitment fee. 42 Additionally, assuming the exercise of all Public Warrants and Private Warrants for cash, we will receive an aggregate of approximately $52,110 in gross proceeds from the exercise. However, we believe the likelihood that warrant holders will exercise their Public Warrants and Private Warrants, and therefore the amount of cash proceeds that we would receive, is dependent upon the market price of our Class A Common Stock. When the market price for our Class A Common Stock is less than $5.79 (i.e., when the Public Warrants and Private Warrants are out of the money), we believe that warrant holders will be unlikely to exercise their Public Warrants and Private Warrants. Our debt consists of notes payable with an aggregate amount of $400 and 7% promissory notesrelated parties with an aggregate principal amount of $2,763. The notes payable mature at various dates through November 2024 and are unsecured. One of the notes requires weekly payments of $4; the remainder of the notes do not require any principal payments prior to maturity. The 7% promissory notesrelated parties reached their maturity date of July 2023 and are currently due. Our total liabilities as of March 31, 2024 were $25,344 compared to $21,789 as of September 30, 2023. The increase in our total liabilities is principally due to the amounts we recognized for the earnout liability and the PIPE make-whole liability, which totaled $5,260 as of March 31, 2024. The related agreements provide that the settlement of those liabilities is through the issuance of shares of our Class A Common Stock; we do not expect to make any cash payments in settlement of the earnout liability and the PIPE make-whole liability. Other commitments include (i) non-cancelable operating leases for equipment, office facilities and other property containing future minimum lease payments totaling $1,861 payable over the next four years, (ii) unconditional purchase commitments of $615 for services which extend to various dates through September 30, 2024, (iii) commitment and other fees of $1,575 payable in connection with the committed equity facility, and (iv) deferred purchase consideration of $1,045 related to our acquisition on EMI, payable at various dates through June 2025. Going Concern We incurred a loss from operations of $25,831 for the six months ended March 31, 2024, and we incurred losses from operations of $35,544 and $23,714 for the years ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of March 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $85,241. We have historically financed our operations through the issuance and sale of equity securities and the issuance of debt. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future and will need to raise additional debt or equity financing to fund our continuing operations, product development plans and capital expenditure requirements, to service our debt obligations and to make strategic investments. While we recently entered into the committed equity facility to raise additional capital, the amount and timing of the proceeds, if any, that we may receive from the sale of shares of Class A Common Stock thereunder will depend on a number of factors, including the numbers of shares we may elect to sell, the timing of such sales, the future market price of our Class A Common stock and our payment of the cash commitment fee. We believe that there is substantial doubt concerning our ability to continue as a going concern as we currently do not have adequate liquidity to meet our operating needs and satisfy our obligations beyond the next approximately ninety days. While we will seek to raise additional capital, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain financing on acceptable terms, or at all, to provide the necessary interim funding to continue our operations and satisfy our obligations. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, dilution to our existing stockholders may result. Any equity securities we issue may also provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise funds by issuing debt securities, such debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of preferred and common stockholders. The terms of debt securities or borrowings may impose significant restrictions on our operations. The capital markets have in the past, and may in the future, experience periods of volatility that could impact the availability and cost of equity and debt financing. In addition, recent and potential future increases in federal fund rates set by the Federal Reserve, which serve as a benchmark for rates on borrowing, could adversely impact the cost or availability of debt financing. 43 If we are unable to obtain additional financing, or if such transactions are successfully completed but do not provide adequate financing, we will not be able to continue operations. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a basis that assumes we will continue as a going concern and which contemplates the realization of assets and the satisfaction of liabilities and commitments in the ordinary course of business. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires that we make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. The methods, estimates and judgments we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on the results that we report in our financial statements. Some of our accounting policies require that we make difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, current economic and industry conditions and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our most critical accounting estimates include the assumptions we use in the determination of the fair value of the earnout liability, the fair value of the PIPE make-whole liability, the fair value of common stock, stock-based compensation, the provision for income taxes, the accounting for business combinations and the measurement of definite-lived intangible assets. Fair Value of Earnout Liability We account for the earnout shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determine the number of earnout shares to which the earnout recipients will be entitled include events that are not solely indexed to our common stock. We remeasure the earnout liability to its estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. We estimate the fair value of the earnout liability using a Monte Carlo simulation model that utilizes significant assumptions, including volatility, expected term and risk-free rate that determine the probability of achieving the earnout conditions. The following table summarizes the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the earnout liability at the respective dates: December 21, 2023 (Closing) March 31, 2024 Stock price $ 10.66 $ 2.01 Expected volatility 50 % 60 % Risk-free rate 3.9 % 4.1 % Contractual term 8 years 7.7 years Fair Value of PIPE Make-Whole Liability We account for the make-whole shares as liability-classified instruments because the events that determine the number of make-whole shares we will be obligated to issue are not solely indexed to our common stock and we remeasure the PIPE make-whole liability to its estimated fair value at the end of each reporting period. 44 We use a Monte Carlo simulation model that utilizes significant assumptions, including volatility, expected term and risk-free rate, to estimate the fair value of the PIPE make-whole liability. The following table summarizes the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the PIPE make-whole liability at the respective dates: December 21, 2023 (Closing) March 31, 2024 Stock price $ 10.17 $ 1.56 Expected volatility 49 % 51 % Risk-free rate 5.4 % 5.4 % Contractual term 4 months 3 months Fair Value of Common Stock The fair value of our common stock affects the accounting for, and measurement of, a number of transactions, including awards of stock-based compensation, sales of our common and preferred stock or warrants to purchase our common stock and business combinations. For periods subsequent to the Merger, we determine the fair value of our common stock based on quoted market prices. For periods prior to the Merger, there was no public market for our common stock and we determined the fair value of our common stock considering a number of objective and subjective factors, including: third-party valuations of our common stock, the valuation of comparable companies, sales of our common stock to outside investors in arms-length transactions, our forecasted financial performance, operational developments and milestones, the lack of marketability of our common stock, the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, and the general and industry specific economic outlook, among other factors. We determined the fair value of our common stock in accordance with applicable elements of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants guide, Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation. The assumptions underlying our valuations represented our best estimates, which involve inherent uncertainties and the application of judgment. As a result, if factors or expected outcomes had changed, or if we had used significantly different assumptions or estimates, our stock-based compensation expense and equity-based valuations or the value of the business we acquired could have been materially different. Subsequent to the Merger, we determine the fair value of our common stock based on quoted market prices. Stock-Based Compensation Our stock-based compensation awards include stock options and restricted stock units. In some cases, other equity transactions, such as the sale of warrants to purchase our common stock are accounted for as equity-classified awards granted to employees. In each case, we must determine the fair value of the equity-based awards. We estimate the fair value of stock options and warrants to purchase our common stock using the Black-Scholes-Merton (Black-Scholes) option-pricing model. The Black-Scholes option pricing model considers several variables and assumptions in estimating the fair value of stock-based awards. These variables include: the per share fair value of the underlying common stock; the exercise price; the risk-free interest rate; the expected term; expected stock price volatility over the expected term; and the expected annual dividend yield. We recognize the fair value of each stock option award as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period, which is typically four years. We have elected to account for forfeitures as they occur and initially record stock-based compensation expense assuming all option holders will complete the requisite service period. If an employee forfeits an award because they fail to complete the requisite service period, we will reverse previously recognized stock-based compensation expense in the period the award is forfeited. 45 Our restricted stock units entitle the holder to receive a number of shares of our common stock. The majority of our restricted stock units are subject to both service-based vesting conditions and performance conditions. We establish the fair value of each restricted stock unit based on the grant-date fair value of the underlying shares of our common stock. Our accounting for restricted stock units also requires that we evaluate the probability of achievement of applicable performance conditions. When we conclude that the achievement of a performance condition is not probable, we do not recognize any compensation cost for the restricted stock unit. We continually reevaluate the probability of achievement of performance conditions. If we subsequently determine the achievement of a performance condition is probable, we will be required to record a catch-up of previously unrecognized stock-based compensation expense, subject to any applicable time-based vesting. We have also issued warrants to purchase common stock to employees and service providers in exchange for services to us and we determined that those warrants should be accounted for as equity-classified awards. We determined the fair value of these warrants at the date of issuance using the Black- Scholes option pricing model, based on the variables and assumptions discussed above, and recognized the fair value as stock-based compensation expense in our statements of operations and comprehensive loss. We classify stock-based compensation expense in our statements of operations in the same manner in which the award recipients salary and related costs are classified or in which the award recipients service payments are classified. In future periods, we expect stock-based compensation expense to increase, due in part to our existing unrecognized stock-based compensation expense and as we grant additional stock-based awards to continue to attract and retain employees. Provision for Income Taxes We account for income taxes using the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. We recognize the effect of a change in tax laws on deferred tax assets and liabilities in our results of operations in the period the new laws are enacted. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets unless it is more likely than not that such assets will be realized. We recognize liabilities for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process regarding recognition and measurement. We recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the local taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. We measure the amount of tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions based on the largest benefit greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement with the related tax authority. Changes in recognition or measurement of an uncertain tax position are reflected in our statements of operations in the period in which the change in estimate occurs, based on new information not previously available. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the fair values of the net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Accounting for business combinations requires that we make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we use to be reasonable and appropriate, they are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in valuing certain acquired assets may include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows including revenue growth rate assumptions from product sales, customer contracts and acquired technologies, the expected costs to develop acquired technology into commercially viable products and the estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, including assumptions associated with the technology migration curve and expected selling, general and administrative costs. We derive the discount rates used to discount expected future cash flows to present value using a weighted-average cost of capital analysis adjusted to reflect inherent risks. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that could affect either the accuracy or validity of these assumptions, estimates or actual results. 46 Definite-Lived Intangible Assets We have acquisition-related intangible assets consisting of developed technology, customer relationships, tradenames and backlog. We record amortization expense associated with each definite-lived acquisition-related intangible asset based on its estimated useful life. We also review our acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. This includes our regular review of our operating performance for indicators of impairment. Factors considered important that could trigger an impairment review include a significant underperformance relative to expected historical or projected future operating results, or a significant change in the manner of the use of the acquisition-related intangible assets. We perform impairment testing at the asset group level that represents the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Recoverability of the acquisition-related intangible asset is determined by comparing the forecasted undiscounted cash flows attributable to such acquisition-related intangible asset, including any cash flows upon their eventual disposition, to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the acquisition-related intangible asset exceeds the forecasted undiscounted cash flows, then the acquisition-related intangible asset is written down to its fair value. Our impairment tests require that we apply judgment in estimating the amount and timing of future cash flows, discount rates, asset fair values and the expected useful lives of the acquisition-related intangible assets. To make these judgments, we may use internal undiscounted cash flow estimates, quoted market prices (if available) or other available data. We did not record any impairment charges during the three months and six months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. However, future cash flows may vary from what was expected, or assumptions and estimates we use in the fair value calculations may change, including those assumptions relating to the duration and severity of supply chain disruptions causing delays in shipments in our connectivity business, changes to backlog with our largest customer or other factors. Any such changes in assumptions or estimates could change the estimates of future cash flows we use to estimate fair values and could result in a decline in the estimated fair value of related assets. Such a decline in our estimates of the fair values of assets may result in future impairment charges. Emerging Growth Company We are an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act, and we will take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. 47 Smaller Reporting Company Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company, as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of the fiscal year in which (i) the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $250 million as of the last business day of our second fiscal quarter, or (ii) our annual revenue exceeded $100 million during such completed fiscal year and the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our second fiscal quarter. If we continue to be a smaller reporting company at the time we cease to be an emerging growth company, we may continue to rely on exemptions from these certain reduced disclosure requirements that are available to smaller reporting companies.