ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this report to the terms MongoDB, the Company, we, our and us refer to MongoDB, Inc., its divisions and its subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2021 (the 2021 Form 10-K). All information presented herein is based on our fiscal calendar year, which ends January 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to our fiscal years ended January 31 and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations, including our expectations regarding our future growth opportunity, revenue and revenue growth, investments, strategy, operating expenses and the anticipated impact of the global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part 2, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Our corporate website is located at www.mongodb.com . We make available free of charge, on or through our corporate website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information contained on our corporate website is not part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. Overview MongoDB is the leading modern, general purpose database platform. Our robust platform enables developers to build and modernize applications rapidly and cost-effectively across a broad range of use cases. Organizations can deploy our platform at scale in the cloud, on-premise, or in a hybrid environment. Through our unique document-based architecture, we are able to address the needs of organizations for performance, scalability, flexibility and reliability while maintaining the strengths of legacy databases. Software applications are redefining how organizations across industries engage with their customers, operate their businesses and compete with each other. A database is at the heart of every software application. As a result, selecting a database is a highly strategic decision that directly affects developer productivity, application performance and organizational competitiveness. Our platform addresses the performance, scalability, flexibility and reliability demands of modern applications, while maintaining the strengths of legacy databases. Our business model combines the developer mindshare and adoption benefits of open source with the economic benefits of a proprietary software subscription business model. MongoDB is headquartered in New York City and our total headcount was 2,745 as of April 30, 2021, an increase from 2,020 as of April 30, 2020. We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions, which accounted for 96% of our total revenue for each of the three month periods ended April 30, 2021 and 2020. MongoD B Atlas is our hosted multi-cloud database-as-a-service (DBaaS) offering that includes comprehensive infrastructure and management, which we run and manage in the cloud. During the three months ended April 30, 2021, MongoDB Atlas revenue represented 51% of our total revenue, as compared to 42% of our total revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2020, reflecting the continued growth of MongoDB Atlas since its introduction in June 2016. We have experienced strong growth in self-serve customers of MongoDB Atlas. These customers are charged monthly in arrears 19 Table of Contents based on their usage. In addition, we have also seen growth in MongoDB Atlas customers sold by our sales force. These customers typically sign annual contracts and pay in advance or are invoiced monthly in arrears based on usage. MongoDB Enterprise Advanced is our proprietary commercial database server offering for enterprise customers that can run in the cloud, on-premise or in a hybrid environment, and includes our proprietary commercial database server, enterprise management capabilities, our graphical user interface, analytics integrations, technical support and a commercial license to our platform . MongoDB Enterprise Advanced revenue represented 40% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 49% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2020 . We sell subscriptions directly through our field and inside sales teams, as well as indirectly through channel partners. The majority of our subscription contracts are one year in duration and are invoiced upfront. When we enter into multi-year subscriptions, we typically invoice the customer on an annual basis. Many of our enterprise customers initially get to know our software by using Community Server, which is our free-to-download version of our database that includes the core functionality developers need to get started with MongoDB without all the features of our commercial platform. Our platform has been downloaded from our website more than 175 million times since February 2009 and over 70 million times in the last 12 months alone. We also offer a free tier of MongoDB Atlas, which provides access to our hosted database solution with limited processing power and storage, as well as certain operational limitations. As a result, with the availability of both Community Server and MongoDB Atlas free tier offerings, our direct sales prospects are often familiar with our platform and may have already built applications using our technology. A core component of our growth strategy for MongoDB Atlas and MongoDB Enterprise Advanced is to convert developers and their organizations who are already using Community Server or the free tier of MongoDB Atlas to become customers of our commercial products and enjoy the benefits of either a self-managed or hosted offering. We also generate revenue from services, which consist primarily of fees associated with consulting and training services. Revenue from services accoun ted for 4% of our total revenue for both the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020. We expect to continue to invest in our services organization as we believe it plays an important role in accelerating our customers realization of the benefits of our platform, which helps drive customer retention and expansion. We believe the market for our offerings is large and growing. According to IDC, the worldwide database software market, which it refers to as the data management software market, is forecast to be $73 billion in 2021 growing to approximately $119 billion in 2025, representing a 13% compound annual growth rate. We have experienced rapid growth and have made substantial investments in developing our platform and expanding our sales and marketing footprint. We intend to continue to invest heavily to grow our business to take advantage of our market opportunity rather than optimizing for profitability or cash flow in the near term. Impact of the Ongoing COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has continued to impact the United States (U.S.) and the world. As a result, authorities have from time to time implemented numerous measures to contain the virus, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, and business limitations and shutdowns. Although many jurisdictions have relaxed such restrictions, in some cases these restrictions have been or may in the future be re-instituted, and other jurisdictions are imposing restrictions for the first time. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, it is highly uncertain to what extent and when restrictions will be lifted in various jurisdictions. The full extent of the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our future operational and financial performance will depend on certain developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak and the impact of new variants of the virus that causes COVID-19; the public health measures taken by authorities and other entities to contain and treat COVID-19; the actions taken to effect a widespread, global roll-out of the available vaccines; and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and on our current and prospective customers, employees, vendors and other parties with whom we do business, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. We adopted several measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including temporarily requiring employees to work remotely, suspending non-essential travel by our employees, and replacing in-person marketing events (including our annual developer conference) with virtual events. We have informed our employees that they may continue to elect to work remotely until September 1, 2021, even if their office reopens. While the broader implications of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our results of operations and overall financial performance remain uncertain, we currently expect our revenue to continue to be negatively impacted by the slowdown in activity and other challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and global uncertainty in the near term. 20 Table of Contents During the three months ended April 30, 2021 , we experienced a decrease in our travel costs due to global travel restrictions and remote work arrangements in effect as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our business. For further discussion of the potential impacts of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our business, operating results, and financial condition, see the section titled Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Other factors affecting our performance are discussed below, although we caution you that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may also further impact these factors. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Growing Our Customer Base and Expanding Our Global Reach We are intensely focused on continuing to grow our customer base. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our sales and marketi ng efforts and developer community outreach, which are critical to driving customer acquisition. As of April 30, 2021, we had over 26,800 customers across a wide range of industries and in over 100 countries, compared to over 18,400 customers as of April 30, 2020. All affiliated entities are counted as a single customer. Our customer count as of April 30, 2021 includes customers acquired from ObjectLabs Corporation (mLab) and Tightdb, Inc. (Realm), which acquisitions closed on November 1, 2018 and May 7, 2019, respectively. Our definition of customer excludes (1) users of our free offerings, (2) mLab users who spend $20 or less per month with us and (3) self-serve users acquired from Realm. The excluded mLab and Realm users collectively represent an immaterial portion of the revenue associated with users acquired from those acquisitions. As of April 30, 2021, we had over 3,300 customers that were sold through our direct sales force and channel partners, as compared to over 2,200 such customers as of April 30, 2020. These customers, which we refer to as our Direct Sales Customers, accounted for 84% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 79% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2020 . The percentage of our subscription revenue from Direct Sales Customers increased, in part, due to existing self-serve customers of MongoDB Atlas becoming Direct Sales Customers. We are also focused on increasing the number of overall MongoDB Atlas customers as we emphasize the on-demand scalability of MongoDB Atlas by allowing our customers to consume the product with minimal commitment. After launching in June 2016, we had over 25,300 Mo ngoDB Atlas customers as of April 30, 2021 . The growth in MongoDB Atlas customers included customers from mLab and Realm, as described above, as well as new customers to MongoDB and existing MongoDB Enterprise Advanced customers adding incremental MongoDB Atlas workloads. In an effort to expand our global reach, in October 2019, we announced a partnership with Alibaba Cloud to offer an authorized MongoDB-as-a-service solution allowing customers of Alibaba Cloud to use this managed offering from their data centers globally. We expanded our reach in China in February 2021 when we announced the launch of a global partnership with Tencent Cloud that allows customers to easily adopt and use MongoDB-as-a-Service across Tencents global cloud infrastructure. Increasing Adoption of MongoDB Atlas MongoDB Atlas, our hosted multi-cloud offering, is an important part of our run-anywhere strategy. To accelerate adoption of this DBaaS offering, in 2017, we introduced tools to easily migrate existing users of our Community Server offering to MongoDB Atlas. We have also expanded our introductory offerings for MongoDB Atlas, including a free tier, which provides limited processing power and storage in order to drive usage and adoption of MongoDB Atlas among developers. Our MongoDB Atlas free tier offering is now available on all three major cloud providers (Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Microsoft Azure) in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. In addition, MongoDB Atlas is available on AWS Marketplace, making it easier for AWS customers to buy and consume MongoDB Atlas. Our business partnership with GCP provides deeper product integration and unified billing for GCP customers who are also MongoDB Atlas customers and offers GCP customers a seamless integration between MongoDB Atlas and GCP. The availability of MongoDB Atlas on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace offers unified billing for joint customers of MongoDB Atlas and Microsoft and makes it easier for established Azure customers to purchase and use MongoDB Atlas. In addition, MongoDB is part of Microsofts strategic partner program. We have also expanded the functionality available in MongoDB Atlas beyond that of our Community Server offering. We expect this will drive further adoption of MongoDB Atlas as companies migrate mission-critical applications to the public cloud. The enterprise capabilities that we have introduced to MongoDB Atlas include advanced security features, 21 Table of Contents enterprise-standard authentication and database auditing. We have invested significantly in MongoDB Atlas and our ability to drive adoption of MongoDB Atlas is a key component of our growth strategy. Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers The economic attractiveness of our subscription-based model is driven by customer renewals and increasing existing customer subscriptions over time, referred to as land-and-expand. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to drive additional sales to existing customers, and expect to invest in sales and marketing and customer success personnel and activities to achieve additional revenue growth from existing customers. If an application grows and requires additional capacity, our customers increase their subscriptions to our platform. In addition, our customers expand their subscriptions to our platform as they migrate additional existing applications or build new applications, either within the same department or in other lines of business or geographies. Also, as customers modernize their information technology infrastructure and move to the cloud, they may migrate applications from legacy databases. Our goal is to increase the number of customers that standardize on our database within their organization. Over time, the subscription amount for our typical Direct Sales Customer has increased. We calculate annualized recurring revenue (ARR) and annualized monthly recurring revenue (MRR) to help us measure our subscription revenue performance. ARR includes the revenue we expect to receive from our customers over the following 12 months based on contractual commitments and, in the case of Direct Sales Customers of MongoDB Atlas, by annualizing the prior 90 days of their actual consumption of MongoDB Atlas, assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions or usage. For all other customers of our self-serve products, we calculate annualized MRR by annualizing the prior 30 days of their actual consumption of such products, assuming no increases or reductions in usage. ARR and annualized MRR exclude professional services. The number of customers with $100,000 or greater in ARR and annualized MRR was 1,057 and 780 as of April 30, 2021 and 2020 , respectively. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, competition, pricing, economic conditions or overall changes in our customers spending levels. We also examine the rate at which our customers increase their spend with us, which we call net ARR expansion rate. We calculate net ARR expansion rate by dividing the ARR at the close of a given period (the measurement period), from customers who were also customers at the close of the same period in the prior year (the base period), by the ARR from all customers at the close of the base period, including those who churned or reduced their subscriptions. For Direct Sales Customers included in the base period, measurement period or both such periods that were self-serve customers in any such period, we also include annualized MRR from those customers in the calculation of the net ARR expansion rate. Our net ARR expansion rate remained over 120% during the three months ended April 30, 2021, demonstrating our ability to expand within existing customers. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Subscription Revenue. Our subscription revenue is comprised of term licenses and hosted as-a-service solutions. Subscriptions to term licenses include technical support and access to new software versions on a when-and-if available basis. Revenue from our term licenses is recognized upfront for the license component and ratably for the technical support and when-and-if available update components. Associated contracts are typically billed annually in advance. Revenue from our hosted asaservice solutions is primarily generated on a usage basis and is billed either in arrears or paid up front. The majority of our subscription contracts are one year in duration. When we enter into multi-year subscriptions, we typically invoice the customer on an annual basis. Our subscription contracts are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable. Services Revenue. Services revenue is comprised of consulting and training services and is recognized over the period of delivery of the applicable services. We recognize revenue from services agreements as services are delivered. We expect our revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of new subscriptions, the proportion of term license contracts that commence within the period, the rate of customer renewals and expansions, delivery of professional services, the impact of significant transactions and seasonality of or fluctuations in usage for our consumptionbased customers. Further, we currently expect our revenue to be negatively impacted by the slowdown in activity and other challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic in fiscal 2022. 22 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation, for employees associated with our subscription arrangements principally related to technical support and allocated shared costs, as well as depreciation and amortization. Our cost of subscription revenue for our hosted asaservice solutions also includes third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. We expect our cost of subscription revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our subscription revenue increases and, depending on the results of MongoDB Atlas, our cost of subscription revenue may increase as a percentage of subscription revenue as well. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation, for employees associated with our professional service contracts, as well as, travel costs, allocated shared costs and depreciation and amortization. We expect our cost of services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our services revenue increases. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross Profit. Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross Margin. Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the average sales price of our products and services, the mix of products sold, transaction volume growth and the mix of revenue between subscriptions and services. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above and, to the extent MongoDB Atlas revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue, our gross margin may decline as a result of the associated hosting costs of MongoDB Atlas. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include travel and related costs and allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology and employee benefit costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, sales commission and benefits, bonuses and stockbased compensation. These expenses also include costs related to marketing programs, travelrelated expenses and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, and brandbuilding and developercommunity activities. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we expand our sales force and increase our marketing resources, expand into new markets and further develop our self-serve and partner channels. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation. It also includes amortization associated with intangible acquired assets and allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in our platform and develop new products. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources and external legal and accounting fees, as well as allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we continue to invest in the growth of our business and incur the costs of compliance associated with being a publicly traded company. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, interest expense and gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of state income taxes in the U.S. and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. As of January 31, 2021, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards for federal, state, Irish and United Kingdom (U.K.) income tax purposes of approximately $1.2 billion, $1.1 billion, $384.0 million and $22.1 million, respectively, which begin to expire in the year ending January 31, 2028 for federal purposes and 23 Table of Contents January 31, 2021 for state purposes. Ireland, U.K. and the U.S. federal losses for the years after January 31, 2018 are allowed to be carried forward indefinitely. The deferred tax assets associated with the NOL carryforwards in each of these jurisdictions are subject to a full valuation allowance. Under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), a corporation that experiences an ownership change is subject to a limitation on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. We also have U.S. federal and state research credit carryforwards of $52.9 million and $4.1 million, respectively, which begin to expire in the year ending January 31, 2029 for federal purposes and January 31, 2025 for state purposes. Utilization of the federal NOL carryforwards and credits may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Code and similar state provisions. The annual limitation, should we undergo an ownership change, may result in the expiration of federal or state net operating losses and credits before utilization; however, we do not expect any such limitation to be material. Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 Summary For the three months ended April 30, 2021, our total revenue was $181.6 million as compared to $130.3 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020. Our net loss was $64.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2021 as compared to $54.0 million for the three months ended April 30, 2020. Our operating cash flow was $10.2 million and $(5.9) million for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our free cash flow was $8.4 million and $(8.5) million for the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See the section titled Liquidity and Capital ResourcesNon-GAAP Free Cash Flow below. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars (unaudited, in thousands) and as a percentage of our total revenue. Percentage of revenue figures are rounded and therefore may not subtotal exactly. Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscription $ 174,570 $ 124,856 Services 7,078 5,473 Total revenue 181,648 130,329 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1) 45,402 30,625 Services (1) 9,126 7,052 Total cost of revenue 54,528 37,677 Gross profit 127,120 92,652 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 97,890 69,125 Research and development (1) 64,751 45,632 General and administrative (1) 25,925 19,935 Total operating expenses 188,566 134,692 Loss from operations (61,446) (42,040) Other expense, net (3,922) (11,693) Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (65,368) (53,733) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (1,376) 234 Net loss $ (63,992) $ (53,967) (1) Includes stockbased compensation expense as follows (unaudited, in thousands): 24 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Cost of revenuesubscription $ 2,990 $ 1,827 Cost of revenueservices 1,487 1,146 Sales and marketing 18,876 10,823 Research and development 20,335 11,759 General and administrative 7,226 5,012 Total stockbased compensation expense $ 50,914 $ 30,567 Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Percentage of Revenue Data: Revenue: Subscription 96 % 96 % Services 4 % 4 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Subscription 25 % 23 % Services 5 % 5 % Total cost of revenue 30 % 29 % Gross profit 70 % 71 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 54 % 53 % Research and development 36 % 35 % General and administrative 14 % 15 % Total operating expenses 104 % 103 % Loss from operations (34) % (32) % Other expense, net (2) % (9) % Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (36) % (41) % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (1) % % Net loss (35) % (41) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Subscription $ 174,570 $ 124,856 $ 49,714 40 % Services 7,078 5,473 1,605 29 % Total revenue $ 181,648 $ 130,329 $ 51,319 39 % Total revenue growth reflects increased demand for our platform and related services. Subscription revenue increased by $49.7 million primarily due to an increase of $47.7 million from our Direct Sales Customers, inclusive of Direct Sales Customers who were self-serve customers of MongoDB Atlas in the prior-year period. The growth in services revenue was driven primarily by the increased delivery of consulting and training services. 25 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Percentage Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Subscription cost of revenue $ 45,402 $ 30,625 $ 14,777 48 % Services cost of revenue 9,126 7,052 2,074 29 % Total cost of revenue 54,528 37,677 16,851 45 % Gross profit $ 127,120 $ 92,652 $ 34,468 37 % Gross margin 70 % 71 % Subscription 74 % 75 % Services (29) % (29) % The increase in subscription cost of revenue was primarily due to a $11.4 million increase in thirdparty cloud infrastructure costs, including costs associated with the growth of MongoDB Atlas, as well as a $2.8 million increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation associated with increased headcount in our support organization. The increase in services cost of revenue was primarily due to higher compensation costs from increased headcount in our services organization, partially offset by lower expense associated with our China Stock Appreciation Rights Plan. Total headcount in our support and services organizations increased 32% from April 30, 2020 to April 30, 2021. Our overall gross margin declined due to a decrease in subscription gross margin, which was impacted by the increase in subscription revenue from MongoDB Atlas as a percentage of our total revenue. This change in revenue mix caused gross margin to decline due to the increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs associated with MongoDB Atlas. In addition, our cost of revenue included higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation. Our services gross margin remained flat. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Sales and marketing $ 97,890 $ 69,125 $ 28,765 42 % The increase in sales and marketing expense included $24.5 million from higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation, driven by an increase in our sales and marketing headcount to 1,281 as of April 30, 2021 from 922 as of April 30, 2020, which includes non-quota-carrying hires in sales operations, customer success and marketing. Sales and marketing expense also increased $5.7 million from costs associated with our higher headcount, including higher commissions expense and higher facilities and computer hardware and software expenses, as well as higher spend on marketing programs. These increases were partially offset by lower travel costs resulting from global travel restrictions and stay-at-home or similar orders in effect due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Research and development $ 64,751 $ 45,632 $ 19,119 42 % The increase in research and development expense was primarily driven by a $19.9 million increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation as we increased our research and development headcount by 34%. The increase in personnel costs was impacted by higher payroll taxes associated with employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting as a result of our higher average stock price as compared to the prior-year period. Research and development expense also increased $1.4 million from costs associated with our higher headcount, including higher facilities and computer hardware and software expenses. These increases were partially offset by the full amortization of previously acquired developed technology intangible assets and the full amortization of the founder holdback associated with our acquisition of mLab. 26 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % General and administrative $ 25,925 $ 19,935 $ 5,990 30 % The increase in general and administrative expense was due to higher costs to support the growth of our business and to maintain compliance as a public company. In particular, these higher costs were driven by an increase in general and administrative personnel headcount resulting in higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation. These higher costs were partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Other Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Other expense, net $ (3,922) $ (11,693) $ 7,771 (66) % Other expense, net for the three months ended April 30, 2021 decreased primarily due to the adoption of the new accounting standard for convertible senior notes, which eliminated the amortization of the debt discount previously associated with our 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2024 and 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2026. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, in thousands) 2021 2020 $ % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (1,376) $ 234 $ (1,610) nm The provision for (benefit from) income taxes during the three months ended April 30, 2021 was primarily due to adjustments to the valuation allowance as a result of goodwill recorded associated with an immaterial business combination, as well as the reversal of the deferred tax liability associated with convertible debt upon the adoption of ASU 2020-06, partially offset by an increase in foreign taxes as we continue our global expansion. 27 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents, shortterm investments and restricted cash totaling $935.6 million. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits and money market funds. Our shortterm investments consist of U.S. government treasury securities, and our restricted cash represents collateral for our available credit on corporate credit cards. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and shortterm investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit and historical consolidated statements of cash flows. As of April 30, 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $946.8 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements and adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the timing of new subscription introductions, the continuing market acceptance of our subscriptions and services and the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our operations continues to evolve, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (unaudited, in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 10,217 $ (5,878) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (7,511) 3,212 Net cash used in financing activities (25,254) (2,290) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2021 was $10.2 million primarily driven by an increase in our cash collections reflecting overall growth of our sales and our expanding customer base. Accordingly, our accounts receivable decreased by $35.1 million and our deferred revenue increased by $9.7 million. In addition, our net loss of $64.0 million included noncash charges of $50.9 million for stockbased compensation, $3.3 million for depreciation and amortization, $2.5 million for lease-related non-cash charges and $1.4 million for the amortization of our debt issuance costs. Partially offsetting these benefits to our operating cash flow were a decrease of $17.2 million in accrued liabilities, primarily from commissions paid during the three months ended April 30, 2021, as well as higher prepaid expenses of $9.0 million and higher deferred commissions of $5.9 million. Cash used in operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2020 was $5.9 million primarily driven by our net loss of $54.0 million, which was partially offset by noncash charges of $30.6 million for stockbased compensation, $12.0 million for the amortization of our debt discount and issuance costs, $2.9 million for depreciation and amortization and $2.4 million for lease-related non-cash charges. In addition, our cash collections decreased our accounts receivable by $3.6 million and increased our deferred revenue by $3.3 million, reflecting the overall growth of our sales and our expanding customer base. Partially offsetting these benefits to our operating cash flow were decreases of $3.1 million in deferred commissions and $2.8 million in accrued liabilities, primarily from commissions and bonuses paid during the three months ended April 30, 2020. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2021 of $7.5 million resulted primarily from $4.5 million of net cash used for an immaterial acquisition and $1.5 million of cash used to purchase marketable securities, net of maturities. In addition, we used $0.9 million to invest in additional non-marketable securities and $0.6 million for purchases of property and equipment. 28 Table of Contents Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2020 of $3.2 million resulted from the maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by purchases of marketable securities and property and equipment. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2021 was $25.3 million, primarily to repay a portion of the principal upon the conversion of the 2024 Notes redeemed during the period, as well as $1.2 million used for principal repayments of finance leases, partially offset by $3.5 million in proceeds from the exercises of stock options. Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2020 was $2.3 million primarily due to issuance costs related to our January 2020 offering of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2026 that had been accrued as of January 31, 2020, as well as principal repayment of finance leases, partially offset by the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. NonGAAP Free Cash Flow To supplement our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we provide investors with the amount of free cash flow, which is a nonGAAP financial measure. Free cash flow represents net cash used in operating activities less capital expenditures, principal repayments of finance lease liabilities and capitalized software development costs, if any. During each of the three months ended April 30, 2021 and 2020, we did not capitalize any software development costs. Free cash flow is a measure used by management to understand and evaluate our liquidity and to generate future operating plans. The exclusion of capital expenditures, principal repayments of finance lease liabilities and amounts capitalized for software development facilitates comparisons of our liquidity on a periodtoperiod basis and excludes items that we do not consider to be indicative of our liquidity. We believe that free cash flow is a measure of liquidity that provides useful information to our management, investors and others in understanding and evaluating the strength of our liquidity and future ability to generate cash that can be used for strategic opportunities or investing in our business in the same manner as our management and Board of Directors. Nevertheless, our use of free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Further, our definition of free cash flow may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. You should consider free cash flow alongside our other GAAPbased financial performance measures, such as net cash used in operating activities, and our other GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for each of the periods indicated (unaudited, in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2021 2020 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 10,217 $ (5,878) Capital expenditures (627) (1,505) Principal repayments of finance leases (1,199) (1,135) Capitalized software Free cash flow $ 8,391 $ (8,518) Seasonality We have in the past and expect in the future to experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and results from time to time. In addition, as a result of the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 201409, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , we may experience greater variability and reduced comparability of our quarterly revenue and results with respect to the timing and nature of certain of our contracts, particularly multi-year contracts that contain a term license. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended April 30, 2021, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our 2021 Form 10-K. Refer to Note 6, Leases and Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies , in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. 29 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the 2021 Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, including our adoption of the new standard for our convertible senior notes under Accounting Standards Update 2020-06. 30 Table of Contents