ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this report to the terms MongoDB, the Company, we, our and us refer to MongoDB, Inc., its divisions and its subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 (the 2019 Form 10-K). All information presented herein is based on our fiscal calendar, which ends January 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to our fiscal years ended January 31 and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. Effective February 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) as discussed in the Companys consolidated financial statements and related notes Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements. All amounts and disclosures in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been updated to comply with the new revenue standard. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations, including our expectations regarding our future operating expenses. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part 2, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Our corporate website is located at www.mongodb.com . We make available free of charge, on or through our corporate website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing such reports to, the SEC. Information contained on our corporate website is not part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. Overview MongoDB is the leading modern, general purpose database platform. Our robust platform enables developers to build and modernize applications rapidly and cost-effectively across a broad range of use cases. Organizations can deploy our platform at scale in the cloud, on-premise, or in a hybrid environment. Software applications are redefining how organizations across industries engage with their customers, operate their businesses and compete with each other. A database is at the heart of every software application. As a result, selecting a database is a highly strategic decision that directly affects developer productivity, application performance and organizational competitiveness. Our platform addresses the performance, scalability, flexibility and reliability demands of modern applications, while maintaining the strengths of legacy databases. Our business model combines the developer mindshare and adoption benefits of open source with the economic benefits of a proprietary software subscription business model. MongoDB is headquartered in New York City and our total headcount was 1,331 as of April 30, 2019, an increase from 999 as of April 30, 2018. We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions, which accounted for 94% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2019 , and 92% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Our primary subscription package is MongoDB Enterprise Advanced, which represented 54% and 67% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, MongoDB Enterprise Advanced represented 60%, 69% and 72% of our subscription revenue, respectively. MongoDB Enterprise Advanced is our comprehensive offering for enterprise customers that can be run in the cloud, on-premise or in a hybrid environment, and includes our propriet ary commercial database server, enterprise management capabilities, our graphical user interface, analytics integrations, technical support and a commercial license to our platform. 19 Table of Contents Many of our enterprise customers initially get to know our software by using Community Server, which is our free-to-download version of our database that includes the core functionality developers need to get started with MongoDB without all the features of our commercial platform. As a result, our direct sales prospects are often familiar with our platform and may have already built applications using our technology. We sell subscriptions directly through our field and inside sales teams, as well as indirectly through channel partners. Our subscription offerings are generally priced on a per server basis, subject to a per server RAM limit. The majority of our subscription contracts are one year in duration and invoiced upfront. When we enter into multi-year subscriptions, we typically invoice the customer on an annual basis. We introduced MongoDB Atlas in June 2016. MongoD B Atlas is our cloud-hosted database-as-a-service (DBaaS) offering that includes comprehensive infrastructure and management, which we run and manage in the cloud. During the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , MongoDB Atlas revenue represented 35% and 14% of our total revenue, respectively, reflecting the continued growth of MongoDB Atlas since its introduction. We have experienced strong growth in self-serve customers of MongoDB Atlas. These customers are charged monthly based on their usage. In addition, we have also seen growth in MongoDB Atlas customers sold by our sales force. These customers typically sign annual commitments and pay in advance or are invoiced monthly based on usage. Given our platform has been downloaded from our website more than 65 million times since February 2009 and over 25 million times in the last 12 months alone, a core component of our growth strategy for MongoDB Atlas is to convert developers and their organizations who are already using Community Server to become customers of MongoDB Atlas and enjoy the benefits of a managed offering. We also generate revenue from services, which consist primarily of fees associated with consulting and training services. Revenue from services accounted for 6% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 8% of our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . We expect to continue to invest in our services organization as we believe it plays an important role in accelerating our customers realization of the benefits of our platform, which helps drive customer retention and expansion. We believe the market for our offerings is large and growing. According to IDC, the worldwide database software market, which it refers to as the data management software market, is forecast to be $64 billion in 2019 growing to approximately $98 billion in 2023, representing an 11% compound annual growth rate. We have experienced rapid growth and have made substantial investments in developing our platform and expanding our sales and marketing footprint. We intend to continue to invest heavily to grow our business to take advantage of our market opportunity rather than optimizing for profitability or cash flow in the near term. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Growing Our Customer Base We are focused on continuing to grow our customer base. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our sales and marketing efforts and developer community outreach, which are critical to driving customer acquisition. As of April 30, 2019 , we had over 14,200 customers across a wide range of industries and in over 100 countries, compared to over 6,600 customers as of April 30, 2018 . All affiliated entities are counted as a single customer. Our customer count as of April 30, 2019 includes customers acquired from mLab, which acquisition closed on November 1, 2018. Our definition of customer excludes (1) users of our free offerings and (2) users acquired from mLab who spend less than $20 per month with us, which users collectively represent an immaterial portion of the revenue associated with users acquired from mLab. As of April 30, 2019 , we had over 1,800 customers that were sold through our direct sales force and channel partners, as compared to over 1,550 such customers as of April 30, 2018 . These customers, which we refer to as our Direct Sales Customers, accounted for 77% and 88% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Increasing Adoption of MongoDB Atlas MongoDB Atlas, our hosted multi-cloud offering, is an important part of our run-anywhere strategy. With MongoDB Atlas, customers can enjoy the benefits of consuming MongoDB as a service in the public cloud, enabling customers to remove themselves from the complexity of managing the database and related underlying infrastructure. We initially launched MongoDB Atlas in 2016 and generated revenue by migrating existing users of our Community Server. During 2018, we expanded the functionality available in MongoDB Atlas beyond that of our Community Server offering, including 20 Table of Contents adding advanced security features, enterprise-standard authentication and database auditing to MongoDB Atlas to allow Atlas to support mission-critical enterprise workloads. MongoDB Atlas is available on all three major cloud providers (Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) and Microsoft Azure) in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. In addition, MongoDB Atlas is available on AWS Marketplace, making it easier for AWS customers to buy and consume MongoDB Atlas. We recently announced a new business partnership with GCP that will provide deeper product integration and unified billing for GCP customers who are also MongoDB Atlas customers. This partnership will allow GCP customers a seamless integration of all the features of MongoDB Atlas with GCPs identity and access management, logging and monitoring, Kubernetes and Tensorflow. We have invested significantly in MongoDB Atlas and our ability to drive adoption of MongoDB Atlas is a key component of our growth strategy. We offer a free tier on AWS, GCP and Microsoft Azure, which provides limited processing power and storage, in order to drive usage and adoption of MongoDB Atlas among developers. In addition, we offer tools to easily migrate existing users of our Community Server offering to MongoDB Atlas. From its launch in June 2016, we have grown MongoDB Atlas to over 12,300 customers as of April 30, 2019. The growth in MongoDB Atlas customers included new customers to MongoDB and existing MongoDB Enterprise Advanced customers adding incremental MongoDB Atlas workloads, as well as customers from mLab, as described above. Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers The economic attractiveness of our subscription-based model is driven by customer renewals and increasing existing customer subscriptions over time, referred to as land-and-expand. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to drive additional sales to existing customers, and expect to invest in sales and marketing and customer success personnel and activities to achieve additional revenue growth from existing customers. If an application grows and requires additional capacity, our customers increase their subscriptions to our platform. In addition, our customers expand their subscriptions to our platform as they migrate additional existing applications or build new applications, either within the same department or in other lines of business or geographies. Also, as customers modernize their information technology infrastructure and move to the cloud, they may migrate applications from legacy databases. Our goal is to increase the number of customers that standardize on our database within their organization, which can include offering centralized internal support or providing MongoDB-as-a-service internally. Over time, the average subscription amount for our Direct Sales Customers has increased. In addition, self-service customers have begun to increase their consumption of our products, particularly MongoDB Atlas. We monitor annualized recurring revenue (ARR) to help us measure our subscription performance. We define ARR as the subscription revenue we would contractually expect to receive from customers over the following 12 months assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions. ARR excludes self-service products, including MongoDB Atlas not sold on a commitment basis. ARR also excludes professional services. For customers who utilize our self-service offerings, we measure the annualized monthly recurring revenue (MRR), which is calculated by annualizing their usage of our self-serve products in the prior 30 days and assuming no increases or reductions in their usage. The number of customers with $100,000 or greater in ARR and annualized MRR was 598 and 394 as of April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, competition, pricing, economic conditions or overall changes in our customers spending levels. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Subscription Revenue. We derive subscription revenue by offering subscriptions to our platform and hosted database-asaservice solutions. Revenue from subscriptions to our platform is recognized upfront for the license component and ratably for the technical support and when-and-if available update components. Revenue from our hosted database-asaservice solutions is primarily generated on a usage basis and is billed either in arrears or paid up front. The majority of our subscription contracts are one year in duration and are invoiced upfront. Our subscription contracts are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable. When we enter into multi-year subscriptions, we typically invoice the customer on an annual basis. Services Revenue. Services revenue is comprised of consulting and training services and is recognized over the period of delivery of the applicable services. We recognize revenue from services agreements as services are delivered. We expect our revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of new subscriptions, the proportion of term license contracts that commence within the period, the rate of customer renewals and 21 Table of Contents expansions, delivery of professional services, the impact of significant transactions and seasonality of or fluctuations in usage for our consumptionbased customers. Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation, for employees associated with our subscription arrangements principally related to technical support and allocated shared costs, as well as depreciation and amortization. Our cost of subscription revenue for our hosted asaservice solutions includes thirdparty cloud infrastructure expenses. We expect our cost of subscription revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our subscription revenue increases and, depending on the results of MongoDB Atlas, our cost of subscription revenue may increase as a percentage of subscription revenue as well. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation, for employees associated with our professional service contracts, as well as travel costs, allocated shared costs and depreciation and amortization. We expect our cost of services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our services revenue increases. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross Profit. Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross Margin. Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the average sales price of our products and services, the mix of products sold, transaction volume growth and the mix of revenue between subscriptions and services. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above and, to the extent MongoDB Atlas revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue, our gross margin may decline as a result of the associated hosting costs of MongoDB Atlas. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology and employee benefit costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, sales commission and benefits, bonuses and stockbased compensation. These expenses also include costs related to marketing programs, travelrelated expenses and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, and brandbuilding and developercommunity activities. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we expand our sales force and increase our marketing resources, expand into new markets and further develop our channel program. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation. It also includes amortization associated with intangible acquired assets and allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in our platform and develop new products. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources and external legal and accounting fees, as well as allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we continue to invest in the growth of our business and incur the costs of compliance associated with being a publicly traded company. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income and gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. As of January 31, 2019, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards for federal, state and Irish income tax purposes of $359.2 million, $239.5 million and $199.5 million, 22 Table of Contents respectively, which begin to expire in the year ending January 31, 2028 for federal purposes and January 31, 2020 for state purposes if not utilized. Ireland and the United States allow NOLs to be carried forward indefinitely. The deferred tax assets associated with the NOL carryforwards in each of these jurisdictions are subject to a full valuation allowance. Under Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code), a corporation that experiences an ownership change is subject to a limitation on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. Utilization of the federal NOL carryforwards and credits may be subject to a substantial annual limitation due to the ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. The annual limitation, should the Company undergo an ownership change, may result in the expiration of federal or state net operating losses and credits before utilization, however the Company does not expect any such limitation to be material. Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 Summary For the three months ended April 30, 2019 , our total revenue was $89.4 million as compared to $50.1 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Our net loss was $33.2 million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to $26.6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2018 . Our operating cash flow was $3.2 million and $(8.0) million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our free cash flow was $2.8 million and $(8.4) million for the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. See the section titled Liquidity and Capital ResourcesNon-GAAP Free Cash Flow below. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenue: Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscription $ 83,994 $ 46,069 Services 5,394 4,070 Total revenue 89,388 50,139 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1) 22,595 10,070 Services (1) 5,577 3,679 Total cost of revenue 28,172 13,749 Gross profit 61,216 36,390 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 46,120 33,197 Research and development (1) 30,868 18,645 General and administrative (1) 14,805 11,227 Total operating expenses 91,793 63,069 Loss from operations (30,577 ) (26,679 ) Other income (expense), net (2,801 ) 591 Loss before provision for income taxes (33,378 ) (26,088 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes (138 ) 467 Net loss $ (33,240 ) $ (26,555 ) (1) Includes stockbased compensation expense as follows: 23 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Cost of revenuesubscription $ 988 $ 359 Cost of revenueservices 593 184 Sales and marketing 4,940 2,218 Research and development 4,520 2,206 General and administrative 2,968 2,610 Total stockbased compensation expense $ 14,009 $ 7,577 Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Percentage of Revenue Data: Revenue: Subscription 94 % 92 % Services 6 % 8 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Subscription 25 % 20 % Services 6 % 7 % Total cost of revenue 31 % 27 % Gross profit 69 % 73 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 52 % 66 % Research and development 34 % 38 % General and administrative 17 % 22 % Total operating expenses 103 % 126 % Loss from operations (34 )% (53 )% Other income (expense), net (3 )% 1 % Loss before provision for income taxes (37 )% (52 )% Provision for income taxes % % Net loss (37 )% (52 )% Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Subscription $ 83,994 $ 46,069 $ 37,925 82 % Services 5,394 4,070 1,324 33 % Total revenue $ 89,388 $ 50,139 $ 39,249 78 % Total revenue growth reflects increased demand for our platform and related services. Subscription revenue increased by $37.9 million primarily due to $19.8 million from sales to new customers, including mLab customers. The remainder of 24 Table of Contents the increase in subscription revenue resulted from sales to existing customers. The increase in services revenue was driven primarily by an increase in sales of professional services to new customers. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Percentage Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Subscription cost of revenue $ 22,595 $ 10,070 $ 12,525 124 % Services cost of revenue 5,577 3,679 1,898 52 % Total cost of revenue 28,172 13,749 14,423 105 % Gross profit $ 61,216 $ 36,390 $ 24,826 68 % Gross margin 68 % 73 % Subscription 73 % 78 % Services (3 )% 10 % The increase in subscription cost of revenue was primarily due to a $9.8 million increase in thirdparty cloud infrastructure costs, including costs associated with the growth of MongoDB Atlas, as well as a $2.0 million increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation associated with increased headcount in our support organization. The increase in services cost of revenue was primarily due to higher headcount in our services organization. Total headcount in our support and services organizations increased 19% from April 30, 2018 to April 30, 2019. Our overall gross margin declined due to the increase in subscription revenue from MongoDB Atlas as a percentage of our overall revenue. This change in revenue mix caused gross margin to decline due to the increase in third-party cloud infrastructure costs associated with MongoDB Atlas. In addition, our cost of revenue included higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation. Our services gross margin is subject to fluctuations as a result of timing of sales of standalone consulting and training services. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 46,120 $ 33,197 $ 12,923 39 % The increase in sales and marketing expense included $8.0 million from higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation, driven by an increase in our sales and marketing headcount to 527 as of April 30, 2019 from 403 as of April 30, 2018 . A portion of the increased personnel costs was from higher payroll taxes associated with employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting as a result of being a publicly traded company. Sales and marketing expense also increased $2.9 million attributable to higher headcount, including increased travel and related expenses and higher commissions expense. In addition, expenses increased $0.9 million due to higher spend on marketing programs, including for MongoDB Atlas. Sales and marketing expense included $0.7 million from the amortization for the customer relationships intangible asset associated with our acquisition of mLab on November 1, 2018. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 30,868 $ 18,645 $ 12,223 66 % The increase in research and development expense was primarily driven by an $8.0 million increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation as we increased our research and development headcount by 43%. A portion of the increased personnel costs was from higher payroll taxes associated with employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit 25 Table of Contents vesting as a result of being a publicly traded company. Also included in research and development expenses is $2.7 million from the amortization of the founder holdback and developed technology intangible asset associated with our acquisition of mLab. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 14,805 $ 11,227 $ 3,578 32 % The increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to a 41% increase in general and administrative personnel headcount, in part driven by the increased compliance requirements of being a publicly-traded company, resulting in an increase of $2.1 million from higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation. A portion of the increased personnel costs was from higher payroll taxes associated with employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit vesting as a result of being a publicly traded company. In addition, professional services expense, particularly for public company compliance costs, increased $0.8 million. General and administrative expense also included $0.3 million of costs associated with our acquisition of Realm, which closed on May 7, 2019. Other Income, net Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ (2,801 ) $ 591 $ (3,392 ) (574 )% The decrease in other income, net was primarily due to interest expense related to the outstanding 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2024 (the Notes), as well as interest expense associated with our financing lease for our New York City office, which expense had previously been capitalized as a build-to-suit asset during the construction phase for most of 2018. These expenses were partially offset by an increase in interest income derived from our larger average cash equivalents and short-term investments balance during the three months ended April 30, 2019 as compared to prior-year period. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change 2019 2018 $ % (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Provision for (Benefit from) income taxes $ (138 ) $ 467 $ (605 ) (130 )% The decrease in the provision for income taxes was primarily due to an increase in stock option exercises, which generated excess tax deductions in the United Kingdom and was recorded as an income tax benefit in the three months ended April 30, 2019 . The decrease in the provision was partially offset by an increase in foreign taxes as we continued our global expansion. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2019 , we had cash, cash equivalents, shortterm investments and restricted cash totaling $476.9 million . Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits and money market funds. Our shortterm investments consist of U.S. government treasury securities and our restricted cash represents collateral for our available credit on corporate credit cards. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and shortterm investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit and consolidated statements of cash flows. As of April 30, 2019 , we had an accumulated deficit of $526.0 million . We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements will 26 Table of Contents depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the timing of new subscription introductions, and the continuing market acceptance of our subscriptions and services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,214 $ (8,049 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 587 57,633 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 6,407 $ 136 NonGAAP Free Cash Flow To supplement our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we provide investors with the amount of free cash flow, which is a nonGAAP financial measure. Free cash flow represents net cash used in operating activities less capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs, if any. During the three months ended April 30, 2019 and 2018 , we did not capitalize any software development costs. Free cash flow is a measure used by management to understand and evaluate our liquidity and to generate future operating plans. The exclusion of capital expenditures and amounts capitalized for software development facilitates comparisons of our liquidity on a periodtoperiod basis and excludes items that we do not consider to be indicative of our liquidity. We believe that free cash flow is a measure of liquidity that provides useful information to our management, investors and others in understanding and evaluating the strength of our liquidity and future ability to generate cash that can be used for strategic opportunities or investing in our business in the same manner as our management and board of directors. Nevertheless, our use of free cash flow has limitations as an analytical tool, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. Further, our definition of free cash flow may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. You should consider free cash flow alongside our other GAAPbased financial performance measures, such as net cash used in operating activities, and our other GAAP financial results. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, for each of the periods indicated. Three Months Ended April 30, 2019 2018 (unaudited, dollars in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,214 $ (8,049 ) Capital expenditures (389 ) (367 ) Capitalized software Free cash flow $ 2,825 $ (8,416 ) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2019 was $3.2 million primarily driven by cash collections, which decreased our accounts receivable by $11.0 million and increased our deferred revenue by $6.3 million , reflecting the overall growth of our sales and our expanding customer base. Also, our accrued liabilities increased $3.3 million , primarily from commissions accrued as of April 30, 2019. In addition, our net loss of $33.2 million included noncash charges of $14.0 million for stockbased compensation, $3.2 million for the amortization of our debt discount and issuance costs and $2.3 million for depreciation and amortization. Partially offsetting these benefits to our operating cash flow were an increase of $3.0 million in deferred commissions and an increase of $0.3 million in prepaid expenses. Cash used in operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 was $8.0 million primarily driven by our net loss of $26.6 million and was partially offset by noncash charges of $7.5 million for stockbased compensation 27 Table of Contents and $0.8 million for depreciation and amortization. In addition, our accounts receivable decreased $14.0 million due to cash collections and our deferred revenue increased $2.9 million resulting from the overall growth of our sales and our expanding customer base. The cash inflows from our accounts receivable and deferred revenue were partially offset by an increase of $3.2 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets and a decrease of $2.0 million in accrued liabilities and $1.3 million in accrued commissions, primarily from the payment of bonuses and commissions that had been accrued as of January 31, 2018. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2019 of $0.6 million resulted from the maturities of marketable securities offset by purchases of marketable securities and property and equipment. Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 of $57.6 million resulted primarily from the maturities of marketable securities. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2019 was $6.4 million primarily due to the proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2018 was $0.1 million primarily due to proceeds from the exercise of stock options offset by the repurchase of early exercised stock options. Seasonality We have in the past and expect in the future to experience seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and results from time to time. In addition, as a result of the recent adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 201409, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), we may experience greater variability and reduced comparability of our quarterly revenue and results with respect to the timing and nature of certain of our contracts, particularly multi-year contracts that contain a term license. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 30, 2019 , we did not have any relationships with any entities or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that would have been established for the purpose of facilitating offbalance sheet arrangements or other purposes. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended April 30, 2019 , there have been no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our 2019 Form 10-K. Refer to Note 5, Leases , and Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies , in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes in our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the 2019 Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, including our adoption of the new lease standard under Accounting Standards Codification 842. 28 Table of Contents