ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Unless the context otherwise indicates, references in this report to the terms MongoDB, the Company, we, our and us refer to MongoDB, Inc., its divisions and its subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with (1) our interim unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025 (the 2025 Form 10-K). All information presented herein is based on our fiscal calendar year, which ends January 31. Unless otherwise stated, references to particular years, quarters, months or periods refer to our fiscal years ended January 31 and the associated quarters, months and periods of those fiscal years. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). These statements are often identified by the use of words such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, plan, project, will, would or the negative or plural of these words or similar expressions or variations, including our expectations regarding our future growth opportunity, revenue and revenue growth, investments, strategy, operating expenses and the anticipated impact of the global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions, caused by the macroeconomic environment, on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties, assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified herein, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors, set forth in Part 2, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Our corporate website is located at www.mongodb.com. We make available free of charge, on or through our corporate website, our annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with, or furnishing such reports to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information contained on our corporate website is not part of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or any other report filed with or furnished to the SEC. Overview MongoDB is the developer data platform company whose mission is to empower developers to create, transform, and disrupt industries by unleashing the power of software and data. The foundation of our offering is the worlds leading, modern general purpose database. Organizations can deploy our database at scale in the cloud, on-premises, or in a hybrid environment. Built on our unique document-based architecture, our database is designed to meet the needs of organizations for performance, scalability, flexibility and reliability while maintaining the strengths of relational databases. In addition to the database, our developer data platform includes a set of, tightly integrated, capabilities such as search, time series, data lifecycle, application-driven analytics and stream processing that allow developers to address a broader range of application requirements. Our business model combines the developer mindshare and adoption benefits of open source with the economic benefits of a proprietary software subscription business model. MongoDB is headquartered in New York City and our total headcount increased to 5,686 as of April 30, 2025, from 5,213 as of April 30, 2024. We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions, which accounted for 97% of our total revenue for both of the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024. 20 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. MongoDB Atlas is our hosted multi-cloud database-as-a-service (DBaaS) offering, which we run and manage in the cloud, and includes comprehensive infrastructure and management, as well as a host of additional features, such as MongoDB Atlas Search, Vector Search, time series, data lifecycle, application-driven analytics and stream processing. During the three months ended April 30, 2025, MongoDB Atlas revenue represented 72%, as compared to 70% of our total revenue during the three months ended April 30, 2024, reflecting the continued growth of MongoDB Atlas since its introduction in June 2016. We have experienced strong growth in self-serve customers of MongoDB Atlas, which are charged monthly in arrears based on their usage. We have also seen growth in MongoDB Atlas customers sold by our sales force, which typically sign annual contracts and pay in advance or are invoiced monthly in arrears based on usage. Customers sold by our sales force may also sign contracts that remain in effect until terminated and are invoiced monthly in arrears based on usage. We expect to continue to see a higher portion of our MongoDB Atlas contracts to be billed monthly in arrears based on usage without requiring upfront commitments. MongoDB Enterprise Advanced is our proprietary commercial database server offering for enterprise customers that can run in the cloud, on-premises or in a hybrid environment. MongoDB Enterprise Advanced revenue represented 22% and 25% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We sell subscriptions directly through our field and inside sales teams, as well as indirectly through channel partners. The majority of our subscription contracts are one year in duration and are invoiced upfront. When we enter into multi-year subscriptions, the customer is typically invoiced on an annual basis or pays upfront. Many of our enterprise customers initially get to know our software by using Community Server, which is our free-to-download version of our database that includes the core functionality developers need to get started with MongoDB without all the features of our commercial platform. Our platform has been downloaded from our website more than 500 million times since February 2009. We also offer a free tier of MongoDB Atlas, which provides access to our hosted database solution with limited processing power and storage, as well as certain operational limitations. As a result, with the availability of both Community Server and MongoDB Atlas free tier offerings, our direct sales prospects are often familiar with our platform and may have already built applications using our technology. A core component of our growth strategy for MongoDB Atlas and MongoDB Enterprise Advanced is to convert developers and their organizations who are already using Community Server or the free tier of MongoDB Atlas to become customers of our commercial products and enjoy the benefits of either a self-managed or hosted offering. We also generate revenue from services, which consist primarily of fees associated with consulting and training services. Revenue from services accounted for 3% of our total revenue for both of the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024. We expect to continue to invest in our services organization as we believe it plays an important role in accelerating our customers realization of the benefits of our platform, which helps drive customer retention and expansion. We believe the market for our offerings is large and growing. According to IDC, the worldwide data software market, which it refers to as the Data Management Software market, was $106 billion in 2024 growing to approximately $191 billion in 2029. This represents a 13% compound annual growth rate. We have experienced rapid growth and have made substantial investments in developing our platform and expanding our sales and marketing footprint. We intend to continue to invest to grow our business to take advantage of our market opportunity. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Macroeconomic and Other Factors Our operational and financial performance is subject to risks including those caused by the adverse macroeconomic environment and the geopolitical landscape. Adverse macroeconomic conditions include slower or negative economic growth, higher inflation and higher interest rates. During the three months ended April 30, 2025, the macroeconomic environment negatively impacted our business. For instance, we experienced slower than historical growth rates for our existing MongoDB Atlas applications. While the impact of these macroeconomic conditions on our business, results of operations and financial position remain uncertain over the long term, we expect to experience macroeconomic headwinds on growth rate for our existing MongoDB Atlas applications in the short term. We continue to monitor the developments of the macroeconomic environment and the geopolitical landscape. As these factors develop and we evaluate their impact on our business, we may adjust our business practices accordingly. For further 21 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. discussion of the potential impacts of these factors on our business, operating results, and financial condition, see the section titled Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Other factors affecting our performance are discussed below. Growing Our Customer Base and Expanding Our Global Reach We are intensely focused on continuing to grow our customer base. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, in our sales and marketing efforts and developer community outreach, which are critical to driving customer acquisition. As of April 30, 2025, we had over 57,100 customers across a wide range of industries and in over 100 countries, compared to over 49,200 customers as of April 30, 2024. All affiliated entities are counted as a single customer and our definition of customer excludes users of our free offerings. As of April 30, 2025, we had over 7,500 customers that were sold through our direct sales force and channel partners, as compared to over 7,100 such customers as of April 30, 2024. These customers, which we refer to as our Direct Sales Customers, accounted for 87% of our subscription revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We plan to continue to invest in acquiring new customers and additional workloads from existing customers across all of our channels. We had over 55,800 MongoDB Atlas customers as of April 30, 2025 compared to over 47,700 as of April 30, 2024. The growth in MongoDB Atlas customers included new customers to MongoDB and existing MongoDB Enterprise Advanced customers adding incremental MongoDB Atlas workloads. Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers The economic attractiveness of our subscription-based model is demonstrated by customer renewals and increasing existing customer subscriptions over time, referred to as land-and-expand. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to drive additional sales to existing customers, and expect to invest in sales and marketing and customer success personnel and activities to achieve additional revenue growth from existing customers. If an application grows and requires additional capacity, our customers increase their usage of our platform. Growth of an application is impacted by a number of factors including the macroeconomic environment. During the three months ended April 30, 2025, we believe we experienced a negative impact from the macroeconomic environment on the growth of existing Atlas applications, which affected our revenue growth. We expect the macroeconomic environment to continue to negatively impact our revenue growth. In addition, our customers add incremental workloads or expand their subscriptions to our platform as they migrate additional existing applications or build new applications, either within the same department or in other lines of business or geographies. Also, as customers modernize their information technology infrastructure and move to the cloud, they may migrate applications from legacy databases. Our goal is to increase the number of customers that standardize on our platform within their organization, as well as add new workloads with new and existing customers. Over time, the subscription amount for our typical Direct Sales Customer has increased. We calculate annualized recurring revenue (ARR) and annualized monthly recurring revenue (MRR) to help us measure our subscription revenue performance. ARR includes the revenue we expect to receive from our customers over the following 12 months based on contractual commitments and, in the case of Direct Sales Customers of MongoDB Atlas, by annualizing the prior 90 days of their actual usage of MongoDB Atlas, assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions or usage. For all other customers of our self-serve products, we calculate annualized MRR by annualizing the prior 30 days of their actual usage of such products, assuming no increases or reductions in usage. ARR and annualized MRR exclude professional services. The number of customers with $100,000 or greater in ARR and annualized MRR was 2,506 and 2,137 as of April 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our ability to increase sales to existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including customers satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our products and services, competition, pricing, economic conditions or overall changes in our customers spending levels. We also examine the rate at which our customers increase their spend with us, which we call net ARR expansion rate. We calculate net ARR expansion rate by dividing the ARR at the close of a given period (the measurement period), from customers who were also customers at the close of the same period in the prior year (the base period), by the ARR from all customers at the close of the base period, including those who churned or reduced their subscriptions. For Direct Sales Customers included in the base period, measurement period or both such periods that were self-serve customers in any such period, we also include annualized MRR from those customers in the calculation of the net ARR expansion rate. As of April 30, 2025, our net ARR expansion rate was approximately 119%. Our net ARR expansion rate may fluctuate in future periods due to a variety of factors, including the volume and type of workloads that we onboard, growth rate of historical workloads on our platform and changes in the macroeconomic environment. 22 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. Components of Results of Operations Revenue Subscription Revenue. Our subscription revenue is comprised of term licenses and database-as-a-service solutions. Revenue from our MongoDB Atlas database-as-a-service offering is primarily generated on a usage basis and is billed either monthly in arrears or paid upfront. Subscriptions to term licenses include technical support and access to new software versions on a when-and-if available basis. Revenue from our term licenses is recognized upfront for the license component and ratably for the technical support and when-and-if available update components. Associated contracts are typically billed annually in advance. The majority of our subscription contracts are one year in duration. When we enter into multi-year subscriptions, the customer is typically invoiced on an annual basis or pays upfront. Our subscription contracts are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable. Services Revenue. Services revenue is comprised of consulting and training services and is recognized over the period of delivery of the applicable services. We expect our revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of new subscriptions, customer usage patterns, the proportion of term license contracts that commence within the period, the rate of customer renewals and expansions, delivery of professional services, the impact of significant transactions and seasonality of or fluctuations in usage from our MongoDB Atlas customers. Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes third-party cloud infrastructure expenses for our database-as-a-service solutions. We expect our cost of subscription revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our subscription revenue increases and, depending on the results of MongoDB Atlas, our cost of subscription revenue may increase as a percentage of subscription revenue as well. Cost of subscription revenue also includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits and stock-based compensation, for employees associated with our subscription arrangements principally related to technical support and allocated shared costs, as well as depreciation and amortization. Cost of Services Revenue. Cost of services revenue primarily includes personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation, for employees associated with our professional service contracts, as well as, travel costs, allocated shared costs and depreciation and amortization. We expect our cost of services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our services revenue increases. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross Profit. Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross Margin. Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the average sales price of our products and services, the mix of products sold, transaction volume growth and the mix of revenue between subscriptions and services. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above and, to the extent MongoDB Atlas revenue increases as a percentage of total revenue, our gross margin may decline as a result of the associated hosting costs of MongoDB Atlas. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Personnel costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include travel and related costs and allocated overhead costs for facilities, information technology and employee benefit costs. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, sales commission and benefits, bonuses and stockbased compensation. These expenses also include costs related to marketing programs, travelrelated expenses and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, and brandbuilding and developercommunity activities. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we expand our sales force and increase our marketing resources, expand into new markets and further develop our self-serve and partner channels. 23 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation. It also includes amortization associated with intangible acquired assets and allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars, as we continue to invest in our developer data platform and develop new products. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stockbased compensation for administrative functions including finance, legal, human resources and external legal and accounting fees, as well as allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars over time as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income, interest expense, gains and losses on financial instruments, net and gains and losses from foreign currency transactions. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of state income taxes in the United States and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. We regularly assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. In making that assessment, we consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets to determine, based on the weight of available evidence, whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We have maintained a valuation allowance on U.S. and Ireland net deferred tax assets, as it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 24 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in U.S. dollars (unaudited, in thousands) and as a percentage of our total revenue. Percentage of revenue figures are rounded and therefore may not subtotal exactly. Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue: Subscription $ 531,455 $ 436,896 Services 17,559 13,665 Total revenue 549,014 450,561 Cost of revenue: Subscription(1) 129,585 100,762 Services(1) 28,456 21,935 Total cost of revenue 158,041 122,697 Gross profit 390,973 327,864 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1) 220,923 219,444 Research and development(1) 168,829 146,060 General and administrative(1) 54,775 60,546 Total operating expenses 444,527 426,050 Loss from operations (53,554) (98,186) Other income, net 20,230 20,174 Loss before provision for income taxes (33,324) (78,012) Provision for income taxes 4,302 2,581 Net loss $ (37,626) $ (80,593) (1) Includes stockbased compensation expense as follows (unaudited, in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 Cost of revenuesubscription $ 8,395 $ 6,163 Cost of revenueservices 3,894 3,255 Sales and marketing 39,102 39,613 Research and development 66,405 55,173 General and administrative 14,635 16,559 Total stockbased compensation expense $ 132,431 $ 120,763 25 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 Percentage of Revenue Data: Revenue: Subscription 97 % 97 % Services 3 % 3 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Subscription 24 % 22 % Services 5 % 5 % Total cost of revenue 29 % 27 % Gross profit 71 % 73 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 40 % 49 % Research and development 31 % 32 % General and administrative 10 % 14 % Total operating expenses 81 % 95 % Loss from operations (10) % (22) % Other income, net 4 % 5 % Loss before provision for income taxes (6) % (17) % Provision for income taxes 1 % 1 % Net loss (7) % (18) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Subscription $ 531,455 $ 436,896 $ 94,559 22 % Services 17,559 13,665 3,894 28 % Total revenue $ 549,014 $ 450,561 $ 98,453 22 % Headcount (at period end) Subscription 483 410 Services 370 277 Total headcount 853 687 Total revenue growth reflects increased demand for our platform and related services. Subscription revenue increased by $94.6 million primarily due to an increase of $79.2 million from our Direct Sales Customers, inclusive of the impact from Direct Sales Customers who were self-serve customers of MongoDB Atlas in the prior-year period. 26 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Percentage Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Subscription cost of revenue $ 129,585 $ 100,762 $ 28,823 29 % Services cost of revenue 28,456 21,935 6,521 30 % Total cost of revenue 158,041 122,697 35,344 29 % Gross profit $ 390,973 $ 327,864 $ 63,109 19 % Gross margin 71 % 73 % Subscription 76 % 77 % Services (62) % (61) % The increase in subscription cost of revenue was primarily due to a $20.2 million increase in thirdparty cloud infrastructure costs, including costs associated with the growth of MongoDB Atlas, and an increase of $5.1 million personnel costs and stock-based compensation. The increase in thirdparty cloud infrastructure costs was partially offset by continued cost efficiencies realized as we scale MongoDB Atlas. The increase in services cost of revenue was primarily due to a $3.7 million increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation and a $2.2 million increase in third-party consultant costs related to the delivery of consulting and training services. Our overall gross margin declined to 71%. Our subscription gross margin declined to 76% due to an increase in subscription revenue from MongoDB Atlas as a percentage of our total revenue. Services gross margin declined due to the impact of higher third-party consultant and training costs, services personnel costs and stock-based compensation related to growth in headcount. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Sales and marketing $ 220,923 $ 219,444 $ 1,479 1 % Headcount (at period end) 2,602 2,470 The increase in sales and marketing expense was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs and commissions expense partially offset by a decrease in costs associated with certain in-person events. Research and Development Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Research and development $ 168,829 $ 146,060 $ 22,769 16 % Headcount (at period end) 1,354 1,250 The increase in research and development expense was primarily driven by a $20.0 million increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation. 27 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. General and Administrative Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % General and administrative $ 54,775 $ 60,546 $ (5,771) (10) % Headcount (at period end) 877 806 The decrease in general and administrative expense was primarily driven by a $7.1 million release of reserves for value-added tax expense related to our operations in certain non-US jurisdictions, which was partially offset by an increase of $0.9 million in personnel costs and stock-based compensation. Other Income, Net Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Other income, net $ 20,230 $ 20,174 $ 56 % Other income, net, remained flat for the three months ended April 30, 2025. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, Change (unaudited, dollars in thousands) 2025 2024 $ % Provision for income taxes $ 4,302 $ 2,581 $ 1,721 67 % The increase in the provision for income taxes during the three months ended April 30, 2025 and 2024, was primarily due to an increase in foreign taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and restricted cash totaling $2.5 billion. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits and money market funds. Our short-term investments consist of U.S. government treasury securities, and our restricted cash represents collateral for our available credit on corporate credit cards. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. In October 2024, the optional redemption feature of the 2026 Notes was satisfied as the last reported sale price of our common stock was more than or equal to 130% of the conversion price for at least 20 trading days in the period of 30 consecutive trading days. On October 16, 2024, we issued a notice of redemption (the Redemption Notice) for all aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 2026 Notes. Approximately $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes was converted to 5,662,979 of the Companys common stock with $0.4 million settled in cash. Refer to Note 6, Convertible Senior Notes, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. We have generated significant operating losses as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.9 billion as of April 30, 2025. While we generated positive cash flows from operations in recent years, we have generated negative cash flows from operations in the past as reflected in our historical consolidated statements of cash flows. We expect to continue to incur operating losses, may experience negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements and adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including our growth rate and any impact on it from global macroeconomic conditions, including rising interest rates, inflation, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the timing and size of new subscription introductions and customer usage of our developer data platform, the continuing market acceptance of our subscriptions and services and the impact of the macroeconomic conditions on the global economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the impact of macroeconomic conditions on the global economy and our operations continues to evolve, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt 28 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (unaudited, in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 109,929 $ 63,613 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 51,571 (48,143) Net cash used in financing activities (1,815) (1,140) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2025 was $109.9 million, driven primarily by an increase in our cash collections reflecting the overall growth of our sales and expansion of our customer base. Accordingly, our accounts receivable decreased by $79.9 million. In addition, our net loss of $37.6 million, includes noncash charges of $132.4 million for stockbased compensation, $5.3 million for depreciation and amortization and other net non-cash charges of $1.5 million. Partially offsetting these benefits to our operating cash flow were a decrease in deferred revenue by $39.6 million, a decrease in accrued liabilities by $19.4 million and an increase in other long-term assets of $12.6 million. Cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $63.6 million, driven primarily by an increase in our cash collections reflecting overall growth of our sales and expansion of our customer base. Accordingly, our accounts receivable decreased by $59.3 million. In addition, our net loss of $80.6 million, includes noncash charges of $120.8 million for stockbased compensation and $4.8 million for depreciation and amortization. Our accrued liabilities increased by $6.5 million reflecting our increase in expenses and timing of payments and other net non-cash charges increased cash from operating activities by $2.8 million. Partially offsetting these benefits to our operating cash flow were a decrease in deferred revenue of $37.4 million, amortization of premium and accretion of discount on short-term investments, net of $7.8 million and an increase in deferred commissions of $4.8 million. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2025 was $51.6 million, due to proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, of $60.0 million, partially offset by, cash used for investments in non-marketable securities of $4.8 million, payments related to a business combination, net of cash acquired of $2.0 million and purchases of property and equipment of $1.6 million. Cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $48.1 million, due to purchases of marketable securities, net of maturities, of $47.6 million and cash used for purchases of property and equipment of $0.5 million. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2025 was $1.8 million, due to principal payments of finance leases of $2.4 million, partially offset by proceeds from the exercises of stock options of $0.6 million. Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2024 was $1.1 million, due to principal repayments of finance leases, partly offset by proceeds from exercises of stock options. Seasonality We have experienced seasonal fluctuations in our revenue and operating results and this trend may continue in the future. We may experience variability and reduced comparability of our quarterly revenue and operating results with respect to the timing and nature of certain contracts, particularly multi-year contracts that contain a term license. We may also experience fluctuations as MongoDB Atlas revenue is recorded on a consumption basis and varies with usage, inclusive of seasonal variability. As MongoDB Atlas revenue continues to increase as a percentage of total revenue, these fluctuations may have a greater impact on our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC. Contractual Obligations and Commitments During the three months ended April 30, 2025, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to our contractual obligations and commitments from those disclosed in our 2025 Form 10-K. Refer to Note 7, Leases and Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. Critical Accounting Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. With the exception of Business Combinations, as described below, there have been no other changes in our critical accounting estimates from those disclosed in Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the 2025 Form 10-K. Business Combinations The Company applies a screen test to evaluate if substantially all of the fair value of the gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets to determine whether a transaction is accounted for as an asset acquisition or business combination. When the Company acquires a business, the purchase consideration is allocated to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated respective fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Estimates used in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, time and resources required to recreate the assets acquired. These estimates are based on information obtained from the management of the acquired companies, the Companys assessment of the information, and historical experience. The Companys estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, the Company may record adjustments to the preliminary fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. After the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss). Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in our Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details. 30 Table of Contents MONGODB, INC.