ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events and our future performance and are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. These include statements concerning, among others: the above-average industry growth of product and market areas that we have targeted, our plan to increase our revenue through the introduction of new products within our existing product families as well as in new product categories and families, our intention to exercise our purchase option with respect to our manufacturing facility in Chengdu, China, our belief that we will continue to incur significant legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in each of our legal proceedings, the effect of liquidity of our investments on our capital resources, the application of our products in the communications, storage and computing, consumer and industrial markets continuing to account for our revenue, estimates of our future liquidity requirements, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, protection of our proprietary technology, near term business outlook for 2014 and beyond, the factors that we believe will impact our ability to achieve revenue growth, the outcome of the IRS audit of our tax returns, the percentage of our total revenue from various market segments, and the factors that differentiate us from our competitors. In some cases, words such as would, could, may, should, predict, potential, targets, continue, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, project, forecast, will, the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms and similar expressions relating to the future identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on our current outlook, expectations, estimates, projections, beliefs and plans or objectives about our business and our industry. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth throughout this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, in the section entitled Part II. Other Information, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Except as required by law, we disclaim any duty to and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and any Current Reports on Form 8-K. The following managements discussion and analysis should be read in connection with the information presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes for the three months ended March 31, 2014 included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2013 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 Overview We are a fabless semiconductor company that designs, develops, and markets proprietary, advanced analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. Our products are used extensively in storage and computing products, network communications products, flat panel TVs, set top boxes, lighting products and a wide variety of consumer and portable electronics products, and automotive and industrial markets. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions. We plan to continue to introduce new products within our existing product families, as well as in new innovative product categories. We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain products. We are not and will not be immune from current and future industry downturns, but we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance. We work with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits (ICs). This has enabled us to limit our capital expenditures and fixed costs, while focusing our engineering and design resources on our core strengths. Following the introduction of a product, our sales cycle generally takes a number of quarters after we receive an initial customer order for a new product to ramp up. Typical lead time for orders is fewer than 90 days. These factors, combined with the fact that orders in the semiconductor industry can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer, make the forecasting of our orders and revenue difficult. We derive most of our revenue from sales through distribution arrangements and direct sales to customers in Asia, where the products we produce are incorporated into end-user products. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, 88% and 89% of our revenue, respectively, was attributable to direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter product family which services the communications, storage and computing, consumer and industrial markets. We believe our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, financial instruments, inventories, income taxes, warranty obligations and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as demand for our products and economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when the following four basic criteria are met: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Determination of criteria (3) and (4) are based on managements judgment regarding the fixed nature of the fee charged for products delivered and the collectability of those fees. The application of these criteria has resulted in us generally recognizing revenue upon shipment (when title passes) to customers, including distributors, original equipment manufacturers and electronic manufacturing service providers. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine these criteria are not met for certain future transactions, revenue recognized for any reporting period could be adversely impacted. 18 Our revenue consists primarily of sales of assembled and tested finished goods. We also sell die in wafer form to our customers and value-added resellers, and we receive royalty revenue from third parties and value-added resellers. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 91% and 93%, respectively, of our distributor sales, including sales to our value-added resellers, were made through distribution arrangements with third parties. These arrangements do not include any special payment terms (our normal payment terms are 30-45 days for our distributors), price protection or exchange rights. Returns are limited to our standard product warranty. Certain of our large distributors have contracts that include limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the products purchased during the previous six months. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 9% and 7%, respectively, of our distributor sales were made through small distributors primarily based on purchase orders. These distributors typically have no stock rotation rights. We maintain a sales reserve for stock rotation rights, which is based on historical experience of actual stock rotation returns on a per distributor basis, where available, and information related to products in the distribution channel. This reserve is recorded at the time of sale. Historically, these returns were not material to our consolidated financial statements. We generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to the distributors for the following reasons: (1) Our price is fixed or determinable at the date of sale. We do not offer special payment terms, price protection or price adjustments to distributors when we recognize revenue upon shipment. (2) Our distributors are obligated to pay us and this obligation is not contingent on the resale of our products. (3) The distributors obligation is unchanged in the event of theft or physical destruction or damage to the products. (4) Our distributors have stand-alone economic substance apart from our relationship. (5) We do not have any obligations for future performance to directly bring about the resale of our products by the distributors. (6) The amount of future returns can be reasonably estimated. We have the ability and the information necessary to track inventory sold to and held at our distributors. We maintain a history of returns and have the ability to estimate the stock rotation returns on a quarterly basis. If we enter into arrangements that have rights of return that are not estimable, we recognize revenue under such arrangements only after the distributors have sold our products to end customers. Two of our U.S. distributors have distribution agreements where revenue is recognized upon sale by these distributors to their end customers because these distributors have certain rights of return which management believes are not estimable. The deferred revenue balance from these two distributors as of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 was $1.7 million. The deferred costs as of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 were $0.2 million. We generally provide a one to two-year warranty against defects in materials and workmanship. Under this warranty, we will repair the goods, provide replacements at no charge, or, under certain circumstances, provide a refund to the customer for defective products. Estimated warranty returns and warranty costs are based on historical experience and are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized. Inventory Valuation. We value our inventory at the lower of the standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or its current estimated market value. We write down inventory for obsolescence or lack of demand, based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Conversely, if market conditions are more favorable, inventory may be sold that was previously reserved. Accounting for Income Taxes. ASC 740-10 , Income Taxes Overall , prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation also provides guidance on classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. In accordance with ASC 740-10, we recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We also recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. 19 Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality or uncertainty to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting or tax laws in the U.S., or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax for uncertain income tax positions taken on our tax returns if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements in the period such determination is made. We have calculated our uncertain tax positions which were attributable to certain estimates and judgments primarily related to transfer pricing, cost sharing and our international tax structure exposure. As of March 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, we had a valuation allowance of $16.7 million attributable to managements determination that it is more likely than not that most of the deferred tax assets in the U.S. will not be realized. Should it be determined that additional amounts of the net deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, in the event we were to determine that it is more likely than not that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. As a result of the cost sharing arrangements with our international subsidiaries (cost share arrangements), relatively small changes in costs that are not subject to sharing under the cost share arrangements can significantly impact the overall profitability of the U.S. entity. Because of the U.S. entitys inconsistent earnings history and uncertainty of future earnings, we have determined that it is more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax benefits will not be realized. We incurred significant stock-based compensation expense, which related to employee stock purchase plans for which no corresponding tax benefit will be recognized unless a disqualifying disposition occurs. Disqualifying dispositions result in a reduction of income tax expense in the period when the disqualifying disposition occurs. Tax benefits related to realized tax deductions in excess of previously expensed stock compensation are recorded as an addition to paid-in-capital. Contingencies . We are a party to actions and proceedings incidental to our business in the ordinary course of business, including litigation regarding our intellectual property, challenges to the enforceability or validity of our intellectual property and claims that our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. The pending proceedings involve complex questions of fact and law and will require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend. In addition, from time to time, we become aware that we are subject to other contingent liabilities. When this occurs, we will evaluate the appropriate accounting for the potential contingent liabilities using ASC 450-20-25, Contingencies Loss Contingencies Recognition, to determine whether a contingent liability should be recorded. In making this determination, management may, depending on the nature of the matter, consult with internal and external legal counsel and technical experts. Based on the facts and circumstances in each matter, we use our judgment to determine whether it is probable that a contingent loss has occurred and whether the amount of such loss can be estimated. If we determine a loss is probable and estimable, we record a contingent loss in accordance with ASC 450-20-25-2. In determining the amount of a contingent loss, we take into account advice received from experts for each specific matter regarding the status of legal proceedings, settlement negotiations (which may be ongoing), prior case history and other factors. Should the judgments and estimates made by management need to be adjusted as additional information becomes available, we may need to record additional contingent losses that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Alternatively, if the judgments and estimates made by management are adjusted, for example, if a particular contingent loss does not occur, the contingent loss recorded would be reversed which could result in a favorable impact on our results of operations. Stock-Based Compensation . We account for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC 718-10-30, Compensation Stock Compensation Overall Initial Measurement. This standard requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. We use the Black-Scholes model to estimate the fair value of our options and employee stock purchase plan. The fair value of our time-based and performance-based restricted stock units is based on the grant date share price. The fair value of our market-based restricted stock units is estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. We recognize compensation expense equal to the grant-date fair value for all share-based payment awards that are expected to vest. This expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the entire awards, unless the awards are subject to performance or market conditions, in which case we recognize compensation expense over the requisite service period of each separate vesting tranche. For our performance-based awards, we recognize compensation expense when it becomes probable that the performance criteria specified in the plan will be achieved. For our market-based awards, compensation expense is not reversed if the market condition is not satisfied. The amount of stock-based compensation that we recognize is also based on an expected forfeiture rate. If there is a difference between the forfeiture assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation expense and the actual forfeitures which become known over time, we may change the forfeiture rate, which could have a significant impact on our stock-based compensation expense. 20 Results of Operations The table below sets forth the data from our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 60,061 100.0 % $ 51,470 100.0 % Cost of revenue 27,964 46.6 24,085 46.8 Gross profit 32,097 53.4 27,385 53.2 Operating expenses: Research and development 15,603 26.0 12,123 23.5 Selling, general and administrative 16,109 26.8 13,258 25.8 Litigation benefit, net (8,700 ) (14.5 ) (301 ) (0.6 ) Total operating expenses 23,012 38.3 25,080 48.7 Income from operations 9,085 15.1 2,305 4.5 Interest and other income (expense), net 190 0.3 (10 ) (0.0 ) Income before income taxes 9,275 15.4 2,295 4.5 Income tax provision (benefit) 257 0.4 (204 ) (0.4 ) Net income $ 9,018 15.0 % $ 2,499 4.9 % Revenue The following table shows our revenue by product family: Three Months Ended March 31, Product Family 2014 % of Revenue 2013 % of Revenue Percentage Change (In thousands, except percentages) DC to DC products $ 53,935 89.8 % $ 46,442 90.2 % 16.1 % Lighting control products 6,126 10.2 % 5,028 9.8 % 21.8 % Total $ 60,061 100.0 % $ 51,470 100.0 % 16.7 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was $60.1 million, an increase of $8.6 million, or 16.7%, from $51.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. This increase was due to higher sales of both DC to DC and lighting control products, as higher unit shipments were offset in part by lower average selling prices for these products. Revenue from our DC to DC products was $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, an increase of $7.5 million, or 16.1%, from the same period in 2013. This increase was primarily due to higher sales of our DC to DC converters and battery charger products, offset in part by lower sales of our Mini-Monsters and PMIC products. Revenue from our lighting control products was $6.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, an increase of $1.1 million, or 21.8%, compared with the same period in 2013. This increase was primarily due to higher sales of our WLED products, offset in part by decreased demand for our CCFLC products. 21 Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of costs incurred to manufacture, assemble and test our products, as well as other overhead costs and stock-based compensation expenses. Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Percentage Change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 27,964 $ 24,085 16.1 % Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue 46.6 % 46.8 % Gross profit $ 32,097 $ 27,385 17.2 % Gross margin 53.4 % 53.2 % Gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, was 53.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2014, compared to 53.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in gross margin year-over-year was primarily due to an improved product mix of higher margin products, offset in part by lower overhead capitalization, compared to the same period in 2013. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of salary and benefit expenses and stock-based compensation expenses for design and product engineers, expenses related to new product development, and related facility costs. Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Percentage Change (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development ("R&D") $ 15,603 $ 12,123 28.7 % R&D as a percentage of revenue 26.0 % 23.5 % R&D expenses were $15.6 million, or 26.0% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and $12.1 million, or 23.5% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in R&D expenses was primarily due to an increase in bonus accrual and salary and benefits expenses, and an increase in stock-based compensation expenses associated with the performance-based and market-based equity awards. Our R&D headcount as of March 31, 2014 was 452 employees, compared with 398 employees as of March 31, 2013. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary and benefit expenses and stock-based compensation expenses for sales, marketing and administrative personnel, sales commissions, travel expenses, related facilities costs, and outside legal and accounting fees. Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Percentage Change (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") $ 16,109 $ 13,258 21.5 % SG&A as a percentage of revenue 26.8 % 25.8 % SG&A expenses were $16.1 million, or 26.8% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and $13.3 million, or 25.8% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expenses associated with the performance-based and market-based equity awards, an increase in bonus accrual and an increase in commission expenses due to higher revenue. Our SG&A headcount was 251 employees as of March 31, 2014, compared with 253 employees as of March 31, 2013. Litigation Benefit, Net Litigation benefit, net, includes primarily patent litigation and other contract-related matters. 22 Net litigation benefit was $(8.7) million for the three months ended March 31, 2014, compared to a net litigation benefit of $(0.3) million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in net litigation benefit was primarily due to the recognition of the $9.5 million settlement of the O2 Micro litigation, net of $500,000 of additional legal fees incurred in connection with the final resolution of the litigation. This increase in net litigation benefit was partially offset by higher expenses incurred in other litigation matters for the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the same period in 2013. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net For the three months ended March 31, 2014, interest and other income, net, was $190,000, compared with a net expense of $(10,000) for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in interest and other income, net, was primarily due to lower foreign exchange losses and higher interest income. Income Tax Provision The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was $0.3 million, or 2.8% of the income before income taxes. This differs from the federal statutory rate primarily because our foreign income was taxed at lower rates and because of the benefit that we realized as a result of stock options exercises and the releases of RSUs and changes in our valuation allowance. The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $(0.2) million, or (8.9)% of the income before income taxes. This differs from the federal statutory rate primarily because our foreign income was taxed at lower rates and because of the benefit that we realized as a result of stock option exercises and releases of RSUs. Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 88,885 $ 101,213 Short-term investments 139,750 125,126 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 228,635 $ 226,339 Percentage of total assets 61.0 % 61.4 % Total current assets $ 293,257 $ 292,086 Total current liabilities (30,639 ) (38,489 ) Working capital $ 262,618 $ 253,597 As of March 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $88.9 million and short-term investments of $139.8 million, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $101.2 million and short-term investments of $125.1 million as of December 31, 2013. As of March 31, 2014, $64.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and $17.0 million of short-term investments were held by our international subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventories, deferred income taxes and prepaid expenses and other current assets, reduced by accounts payable, accrued compensation and related benefits, deferred revenue and customer prepayments, and other current liabilities. As of March 31, 2014, we had working capital of $262.6 million, compared with working capital of $253.6 million as of December 31, 2013. The $9.0 million increase in working capital was due to a $1.2 million increase in current assets and a $7.8 million decrease in current liabilities. The increase in current assets was primarily due to an increase in short-term investments, partially offset by a decrease in cash and cash equivalents and accounts receivable. The decrease in current liabilities was primarily due to a decrease in accrued liabilities as we released the liability of $9.5 million related to the O2 Micro litigation in the first quarter of 2014 and recorded it in litigation benefit, net, in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. 23 Summary of Cash Flows The table below summarizes the cash and cash equivalents provided by (used in) in our operating, investing and financing activities: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 11,985 $ 6,704 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (19,241 ) 250 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (4,751 ) 11,138 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (321 ) 91 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (12,328 ) $ 18,183 For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash provided by operating activities was $12.0 million, primarily due to our net income adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization and stock-based compensation, and a decrease in accrued liabilities. The decrease in accrued liabilities was primarily driven by the release of the liability of $9.5 million related to the O2 Micro litigation. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by operating activities was $6.7 million, primarily due to cash contributed from our operating results during the year, which was partially offset by increases in both accounts receivable and inventories. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from an increase in shipments in the first quarter of 2013 and the timing of those shipments. The increase in inventories was primarily due to an increase in strategic wafer and die bank inventories as well as an increase in finished goods necessary to meet anticipated future demand. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash used in investing activities was $19.2 million, primarily reflecting net purchases of short-term investments of $14.7 million and purchases of property and equipment of $4.5 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by investing activities was $0.3 million reflecting net proceeds of $3.7 million from short-term investments, which was offset by $3.4 million of equipment and software purchases . As of March 31, 2014, our investment portfolio included $9.8 million in government-backed student loan auction-rate securities, net of impairment charges of $407,000, of which $377,000 was temporary and $30,000 was recorded as other-than-temporary. This compares to an investment balance as of December 31, 2013 of $9.9 million, net of impairment charges of $390,000, of which $360,000 was temporary and $30,000 was recorded as other-than-temporary. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, we redeemed $0 and $25,000 of auction-rate securities at par. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash used in financing activities was $4.8 million, primarily reflecting $11.4 million used in the repurchases of our common stock, partially offset by $6.6 million of cash proceeds from stock option exercises and stock purchases through our employee stock purchase plan. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by financing activities was $11.1 million, primarily reflecting $11.0 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options and stock purchases through our employee stock purchase plan. In July 2013, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program that authorizes us to repurchase up to $100 million in the aggregate of our common stock through June 30, 2015. All shares are retired upon repurchase. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, we repurchased a total of 324,000 shares for $11.4 million, at an average price of $35.08 per share. From the inception of the program through March 31, 2014, we repurchased a total of 988,000 shares for $32.0 million, at an average price of $32.38 per share. As of March 31, 2014, $68.0 million remained available for future repurchases under the program. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of many factors such as those discussed above, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and short-term investments, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding our operating, investing and financing activities, see the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In the future, in order to strengthen our financial position, in the event of unforeseen circumstances, or in the event we need to fund our growth in future financial periods, we may need to raise additional funds by any one or a combination of the following: issuing equity securities, issuing debt or convertible debt securities, incurring indebtedness secured by our assets, or selling certain product lines and/or portions of our business. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all. 24 From time to time, we have engaged in discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of product lines, technologies, businesses and companies, and we continue to consider potential acquisition candidates. Any such transactions could involve the issuance of a significant number of new equity securities, debt, and/or cash consideration. We may also be required to raise additional funds to complete any such acquisition, through either the issuance of equity and debt securities or incurring indebtedness secured by our assets. If we raise additional funds or acquire businesses or technologies through the issuance of equity securities or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. Contractual Obligations We lease our research and development and sales offices in the United States, Japan, China, Taiwan and Korea. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases. Currently, we are leasing a manufacturing facility in Chengdu, China. We have an option to acquire this manufacturing facility for approximately $1.7 million, which consists of total construction cost incurred minus total rent paid by us during the lease term. This option became exercisable in March 2011 and does not expire. We will likely exercise our purchase option and enter into a purchase agreement for this facility in the future. Our outstanding purchase commitments primarily consist of wafer purchases from our foundries and assembly services. As of March 31, 2014, the outstanding balance was $14.2 million, compared with $12.4 million as of December 31, 2013. Our other contractual obligations have not changed significantly from those disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013.