ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events and our future performance and are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. These include statements concerning, among others: the above-average industry growth of product and market areas that we have targeted, our plan to introduce additional new products within our existing product families as well as in new product categories and families, our belief that we will continue to incur significant legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in each of our legal proceedings, the impact of our outstanding litigation and changing market conditions on the revenue we derive from our CCFL product line, the effect of auction-rate securities on our liquidity and capital resources, the application of our products in the computer, consumer electronics, and communications markets continuing to account for a majority of our revenue, estimates of our future liquidity requirements, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, protection of our proprietary technology, near term business outlook for 2010, the factors that we believe will impact our ability to achieve revenue growth, the percentage of our total revenue from various market segments, and the factors that differentiate us from our competitors. You can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as would, could, may, will, should, expect, intend, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, targets, seek, or continue, the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms. These statements are only predictions based upon assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time made, and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Therefore, actual events or results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. In evaluating these statements, you should specifically consider the risks described below in the section entitled Risk Factors. These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a fabless semiconductor company that designs, develops, and markets proprietary, advanced analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. We currently offer products that serve multiple markets, including flat panel televisions, wireless communications, telecommunications equipment, general consumer products, notebook computers, cellular handsets, and set top boxes, among others. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions. We plan to continue to introduce additional new products within our existing product families, as well as in new product categories. We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain of our products. We are not and will not be immune from current and future industry downturns, but we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance over the long term. We work with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits (ICs). This has enabled us to limit our capital expenditures and fixed costs, while focusing our engineering and design resources on our core strengths. Generally, it is difficult for us to forecast revenue for the following reasons: Orders in the semiconductor industry can be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer. This is mitigated to a certain extent, as the typical lead times for our orders are fewer than 90 days. We are not able to predict, with certainty, the sales cycle for new products to gain traction in the market. Generally, it takes six to twelve months to achieve revenue, with volume production achieved three to six months after we receive an initial customer order for a new product. We derive most of our revenue from sales through distribution arrangements or direct sales to customers in Asia, where the components we produce are incorporated into an end-user product. 83% of our revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 and 80% of our revenue for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 was attributable to direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter product family which services the consumer electronics, communications and computing markets. We believe our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity. 17 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, long-term investments, short-term investments, inventories, income taxes, warranty obligations and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as demand for our products and economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605-10-S25 Revenue Recognition Overall Recognition . ASC 605-10-S25 requires that four basic criteria must be met before revenue can be recognized: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed and determinable; and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Determination of criteria (3) and (4) are based on managements judgment regarding the fixed nature of the fee charged for products delivered and the collectibility of those fees. The application of these criteria has resulted in our generally recognizing revenue upon shipment (when title passes) to customers. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine these criteria are not met for certain future transactions, revenue recognized for any reporting period could be adversely impacted. Approximately 90% of our distributor sales are made through distribution arrangements with third parties. These arrangements do not include any special payment terms (our normal payment terms are 30-45 days), price protection or exchange rights. Returns are limited to our standard product warranty. Certain of our large distributors have contracts that include limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the previous six months purchases in return for a compensating new order of equal or greater dollar value. We maintain a sales reserve for stock rotation rights, which is based on historical experience of actual stock rotation returns on a per distributor basis, where available, and information related to products in the distribution channel. This reserve is recorded at the time of sale. In the future, if we are unable to estimate our stock rotation returns accurately, we may not be able to recognize revenue from sales to our distributors based on when we sell inventory to our distributors. Instead, we may have to recognize revenue when the distributor sells through such inventory to an end-customer. We generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to the distributor for the following reasons (based on ASC 605-15-25-1 Revenue Recognition Products Recognition Sales of Products When Right of Return Exists ): (1) Our price is fixed and determinable at the date of sale. We do not offer special payment terms, price protection or price adjustments to distributors where we recognize revenue upon shipment (2) Our distributors are obligated to pay us and this obligation is not contingent on the resale of our products (3) The distributors obligation is unchanged in the event of theft or physical destruction or damage to the products (4) Our distributors have stand-alone economic substance apart from our relationship (5) We do not have any obligations for future performance to directly bring about the resale of our products by the distributor (6) The amount of future returns can be reasonably estimated. We have the ability and the information necessary to track inventory sold to and held at our distributors. We maintain a history of returns and have the ability to estimate the stock rotation returns on a quarterly basis. If we enter into arrangements that have rights of return that are not estimable, we recognize revenue under such arrangements only after the distributor has sold our products to an end customer. Approximately 10% of our distributor sales are made through small distributors based on purchase orders rather than formal distribution arrangements. These distributors do not receive any stock rotation rights and, as such, hold very little inventory, if any. We do not have a history of accepting returns from these distributors. 18 Table of Contents The terms in a majority of our distribution agreements include the non-exclusive right to sell, and the agreement to use best efforts to promote and develop a market for, our products in certain regions of the world and the ability to terminate the distribution agreement by either party with up to three months notice. We provide a one year warranty against defects in materials and workmanship. Under this warranty, we will repair the goods, provide replacements at no charge, or, under certain circumstances, provide a refund to the customer for defective products. Estimated warranty returns and warranty costs are based on historical experience and are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized. In 2006, we signed a distribution agreement with a U.S. distributor. Revenue from this distributor is recognized upon sale by the distributor to the end customer because the distributor has certain rights of return which management believes are not estimable. The deferred revenue balance from this distributor as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 was $0.3 million and $0.9 million, respectively. Warranty Reserves. We currently provide a 12-month warranty against defects in materials and workmanship and will either repair the goods or provide replacement products at no charge to the customer for defective products. We record estimated warranty costs by product, which are based on historical experience over the preceding 12 months, at the time we recognize product revenue. Reserve requirements are recorded in the period of sale and are based on an assessment of the products sold with warranty and historical warranty costs incurred. As the complexity of our products increases, we could experience higher warranty claims relative to sales than we have previously experienced, and we may need to increase these estimated warranty reserves. Inventory Valuation. We value our inventory at the lower of the standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or its current estimated market value. We write down inventory for obsolescence or lack of demand, based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. On the contrary, if market conditions are more favorable, we may be able to sell inventory that was previously reserved. Accounting for Income Taxes . ASC 740-10 Income Taxes Overall prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. In accordance with ASC 740-10, we recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We also recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality or uncertainty to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting or tax laws in the U.S., or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax for uncertain income tax positions taken on our tax returns if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements in the period such determination is made. We have calculated our uncertain tax positions which were attributable to certain estimates and judgments primarily related to transfer pricing, cost sharing and our international tax structure exposure. As of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we had a valuation allowance of $14.6 million and $14.6 million, respectively, attributable to managements determination that none of the deferred tax assets will be realized, except for certain deferred tax assets related to uncertain income tax positions. Should it be determined that all or part of the net deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, in the event we were to determine that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. 19 Table of Contents Contingencies . We are engaged in legal proceedings resulting from several patent infringement actions against us. In addition, from time to time, we become aware that we are subject to other contingent liabilities. When this occurs, we will evaluate the appropriate accounting for the potential contingent liabilities using ASC 450-20-25-2 Contingencies Loss ContingenciesRecognition to determine whether a contingent liability should be recorded. In making this determination, management may, depending on the nature of the matter, consult with internal and external legal counsel and technical experts. Based on the facts and circumstances in each matter, we use our judgment to determine whether it is probable that a contingent loss has occurred and whether the amount of such loss can be estimated. If we determine a loss is probable and estimable, we record a contingent loss in accordance with ASC 450-20-25-2. In determining the amount of a contingent loss, we take into account advice received from experts for each specific matter regarding the status of legal proceedings, settlement negotiations (which may be ongoing), prior case history and other factors. Should the judgments and estimates made by management need to be adjusted as additional information becomes available, we may need to record additional contingent losses that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Alternatively, if the judgments and estimates made by management are adjusted, for example, if a particular contingent loss does not occur, the contingent loss recorded would be reversed which could result in a favorable impact on our results of operations. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. We have adopted the provisions of ASC 718-10-30 Compensation Stock Compensation Overall Initial Measurement , under the modified prospective method. ASC 718-10-30 eliminates the alternative of applying the intrinsic value measurement to stock compensation awards issued to employees. Rather, the standard requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. That cost will be recognized over the period during which an employee is required to provide services in exchange for the award, known as the requisite service period (usually the vesting period) . We currently use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of our share-based payments. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model is based on a number of assumptions, including historical volatility, expected life, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. If these assumptions change, stock-based compensation may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the past. The amount of stock-based compensation that we recognize is also based on an expected forfeiture rate. If there is a difference between the forfeiture assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation costs and the actual forfeitures which become known over time, we may change the forfeiture rate, which could have a significant impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Fair Value Instruments. ASC 820-10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Overall defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and disclosed in one of the three categories, as follows: a. Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets; b. Level 2: Significant other observable inputs; and c. Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs. ASC 820-10-35-51 Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Overall Subsequent Measurement Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly provides additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with ASC 820-10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Overall , when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair market value based on quoted market prices. Short-term and long-term investments are stated at their fair market value. The face value of our holdings in auction rate securities is $37.2 million, of which $20.5 million is currently classified as long-term available-for-sale investments and $16.7 million is classified as short-term trading investments. The securities that are classified as short-term trading securities have been classified as such because the Company intends to exercise its put option to sell these securities to UBS in June of 2010. These investments are accounted for in accordance with ASC 320-10, Investments Debt and Equity Securities Overall. Investments in available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains or losses (that are deemed to be temporary) are recognized through shareholders equity, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in our consolidated balance sheet. We record an impairment charge to earnings when an available-for-sale investment has experienced a decline in value that is deemed to be other-than-temporary. Investments in trading securities are recorded at fair value and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in other income (expense) in our condensed consolidated statement of operations. We adopted the provisions of ASC 320-10-35 Investments Debt and Equity Securities Overall Subsequent Measurement and ASC 320-10-50 Investments Debt and Equity Securities Overall Disclosure, effective April 1, 2009 and used the guidelines therein to determine whether the impairment is temporary or other-than temporary. Other-than-temporary impairment charges exists when the entity has the intent to sell the security or it will more likely than not be required to sell the security before anticipated recovery. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized a credit loss of $70,000, which was deemed to be other-than-temporary in other income (expense) in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. 20 Table of Contents The UBS put right is accounted for in accordance with ASC 820-10-35 Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures Overall Subsequent Measurement. We value the UBS put right at fair value, which is estimated to be equal to the par value of the auction-rate securities less their fair value as determined by management. Refer to Note 8, Fair Value Measurements, to our condensed consolidated financial statements for further information. Based on certain assumptions described in Note 8, Fair Value Measurements, to our condensed consolidated financial statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we recorded impairment charges on our holdings in auction-rate securities. The valuation of these securities is subject to fluctuations in the future, which will depend on many factors, including the collateral quality, potential to be called or restructured, underlying final maturity, insurance guaranty, liquidity and market conditions, among others. Results of Operations The table below sets forth the data from our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 41.7 % 42.4 % Gross profit 58.3 % 57.6 % Operating expenses: Research and development 22.0 % 27.7 % Selling, general and administrative 20.7 % 26.6 % Litigation expense 3.1 % 7.0 % Total operating expenses 45.8 % 61.3 % Income (loss) from operations 12.5 % (3.7 )% Other income (expense): Interest and other income 0.7 % 1.3 % Interest and other expense 0.0 % (0.3 )% Total other income, net 0.7 % 1.0 % Income (loss) before income taxes 13.2 % (2.7 )% Income tax provision (benefit) 0.6 % (0.2 )% Net income (loss) 12.6 % (2.5 )% Revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 50,250 $ 29,322 71.4 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2010 was $50.3 million, an increase of $20.9 million, or 71.4%, from $29.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2009. DC to DC product sales increased by 90.5% year over year, primarily because of an increase in the demand for electronic products in the consumer and communications markets. Sales of our lighting control products also increased by 58.6% as a result of greater demand for our WLED solution for consumer electronics products. This was partially offset by a decrease in the year over year sales of our audio products due to a change in product mix. 21 Table of Contents The following table illustrates changes in our revenue by product family: For the three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Change (in thousands) Amount % of Revenue (in thousands) Amount % of Revenue DC to DC Converters $ 40,301 80.2 % $ 21,152 72.1 % 90.5 % Lighting Control Products 7,434 14.8 % 4,686 16.0 % 58.6 % Audio Amplifiers 2,515 5.0 % 3,484 11.9 % (27.8 )% $ 50,250 100.0 % $ 29,322 100.0 % 71.4 % Gross Profit. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, was 58.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 57.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2009. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, gross margin improved year-over-year. The increase in the gross margin was a result of increased capacity utilization and a reduction in reserves, offset by declining average selling prices for some of our products. Research and Development. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 50,250 $ 29,322 71.4 % Research and development (R&D) (including stock-based compensation of $1,735 and $1,560 for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively) 11,040 8,117 36.0 % R&D as a percentage of revenue 22.0 % 27.7 % R&D expenses were $11.0 million, or 22.0% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and $8.1 million, or 27.7% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2009. The year-over-year increase was primarily due to an increase in personnel and new product development expenses. Selling, General and Administrative. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 50,250 $ 29,322 71.4 % Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) (including stock-based compensation of $2,210 and $1,772 for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively) 10,393 7,808 33.1 % SG&A as a percentage of revenue 20.7 % 26.6 % SG&A expenses were $10.4 million, or 20.7% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and $7.8 million, or 26.6% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2009. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, SG&A as a percentage of revenue declined compared to the corresponding period in the prior year due to scaling efficiencies. SG&A expenses, however, increased year over year due to higher stock-based compensation expenses and higher bonus accruals and sales commissions as a result of increased revenue in 2010. 22 Table of Contents Litigation Expense. For the three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 50,250 $ 29,322 71.4 % Litigation expense 1,567 2,046 (23.4 )% Litigation expense as a percentage of revenue 3.1 % 7.0 % Litigation expenses were $1.6 million, or 3.1% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2010 as compared to $2.0 million, or 7.0% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2009. During the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, we incurred legal expenses primarily for the defense of our lawsuit against O2Micro. Income Tax Provision. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2010 was $0.3 million or 4.3% of our income before income taxes. This differs from the federal statutory rate of 34% primarily because our foreign income is taxed at lower rates. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2009 was $0.1 million or 7.7% of our income before income taxes. This differed from the federal statutory rate of 34% primarily because our foreign income was taxed at lower rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources. As of March 31, 2010, we had working capital of $191.7 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $48.9 million and short-term investments of $126.7 million compared to working capital of $179.6 million, including cash and cash equivalents of $46.7 million and short-term investments of $118.9 million as of December 31, 2009. We have financed our growth primarily with proceeds from cash generated from operating activities, proceeds from the purchase of shares through the Companys employee stock purchase plan and the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $8.2 million. Net cash increased primarily due to strong operating results and a reduction in inventory during the first quarter of 2010. This was partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable, primarily from increased shipments at the end of the quarter for which the collections have not been made. For the three months ended March 31, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $0.4 million. Accounts receivable increased due to increased sales at the end of the quarter and accrued compensation decreased due to having paid bonuses in 2009 for the performance in the second half of 2008. For the three months ended March 31, 2010, net cash used in investing activities was $11.4 million, primarily related to equipment purchases for our Chengdu facility and the purchase of short-term investments. For the three months ended March 31, 2009, net cash used in investing activities was $17.0 million, primarily related to the purchase of short-term investments. We use professional investment management firms to manage the majority of our invested cash. Our fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in municipal bonds, government securities, auction-rate securities and highly rated corporate notes. The balance of the fixed income portfolio is managed internally and invested primarily in money market funds for working capital purposes. The market for auction-rate securities with interest rates that reset through a Dutch auction every 7 to 35 days became illiquid in 2008. As of March 31, 2010, our investment portfolio included $35.7 million, net of impairment charges of $1.5 million, in government-backed student loan auction-rate securities. The portfolio also included a UBS auction-rate put right, which was valued at $0.6 million in accordance with the fair value measurement provisions of ASC 820-10-35. During the quarter ended March 31, 2010, auction rate securities with a face value of $0.2 million were sold at par through successful auctions. However, the remaining auction rate securities in the portfolio with a face value of approximately $37.2 million have failed to reset through successful auctions and it is unclear as to when these investments will regain their liquidity. The underlying maturity of these auction-rate securities is up to 38 years and the underlying credit quality of these instruments in which we have invested remain generally AAA rated, with $11.9 million of our auction rate securities having been downgraded by Moodys to Aa1-Baa3. 23 Table of Contents We adopted the provisions of ASC 320-10-35 Investments Debt and Equity Securities Overall Subsequent Measurement and ASC 320-10-50 Investments Debt and Equity Securities Overall Disclosure, effective April 1, 2009 and used the guidelines therein to determine whether the impairment is temporary or other-than temporary. Temporary impairment charges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) within equity and have no impact on net income. Other-than-temporary impairment charges exist when the entity has the intent to sell the security or it will more likely than not be required to sell the security before anticipated recovery. Other-than-temporary impairment charges are recorded in other income (expenses) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. In October 2008, we accepted an offer to participate in an auction-rate security rights offering from UBS to sell up to $18.2 million in face value amount of eligible auction-rate securities commencing in June 2010, for which the proceeds from the sale will be received in July 2010. Since then, $1.5 million of these auction-rate securities were called at par, leaving $16.7 million in eligible auction-rate securities remaining at UBS. The offer gives us the right but not the obligation to sell these securities at par to UBS and allows us to borrow up to $16.7 million. In accepting the offer, we also entered into a release of claims in favor of UBS. Since we accepted this put right from UBS, we intend to sell these auction-rate securities at par to UBS commencing in June 2010, for which the proceeds from the sale will be received in July 2010. These securities have been reclassified as trading securities and the cumulative impairment related to these auction-rate securities was $0.6 million and $0.7 million at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. The change in the impairment was recorded in accordance with the provisions of ASC 320-10-35 and ASC 320-10-50 in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Having accepted UBS rights offering, we valued the put right at fair value, which was estimated to be equal to the par value of the auction-rate securities less their fair value as determined by management. The value of the put right was $0.6 million and $0.7 million, at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, the effect of which has been recorded by the Company in other income in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. The UBS rights offering is being accounted for as a fair-value instrument under ASC 820-10-35 and as such, all future changes in the fair value of these instruments will be recognized in other income (expense) in the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. For the remaining auction-rate securities for which the rights offering (described above) does not apply, and which have a face value of $20.5 million and $20.5 million as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively, management concluded that as of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the cumulative impairment of $0.9 million and $1.1 million, respectively, was temporary based on the following analysis: 1. The decline in the fair value of these securities is not attributable to adverse conditions specifically related to these securities or to specific conditions in an industry or in a geographic area; 2. Management possesses both the intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value; 3. Management believes that it is more likely than not that the Company will not have to sell these securities before recovery of its cost basis; 4. Except for the credit loss of $70,000 recognized in year ended December 31, 2009 for the Companys holdings in auction rate securities described below, the Company does not believe that there is any additional credit loss associated with other auction-rate securities because the Company expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis; 5. The majority of the securities remain AAA rated, with $8.9 million of the auction rate securities having been downgraded by Moodys to A3-Baa3 during the year ended December 31, 2009, and there have been no downgrades in the three months ended March 31, 2010; and 6. All scheduled interest payments have been made pursuant to the reset terms and conditions. Based on the guidance of ASC 320-10-35 and ASC 320-10-50, the Company evaluated the potential credit loss of each of the auction-rate securities for which a put right was not provided. Based on such analysis, the Company determined that those securities that are not 100% FFELPS guaranteed are potentially subject to credit risks based on the extent to which the underlying debt is collateralized and the security-specific student-loan default rates. MPS portfolio includes three such securities, one of which has a senior parity ratio of approximately 115%, which is substantially above the expected student-loan default rate for that security. Conversely, the senior parity ratio for the other two securities is approximately 105%. If, therefore, the student-loan default rate and borrowing rate increases for these issuers, the remaining balance in these trusts may not be sufficient to cover the senior debt. The Company therefore concluded that there is potential credit risk for these two securities and as such, used the discounted cash flow model to determine the amount of credit loss to be recorded. In valuing the potential credit loss, the following parameters were used: 20 year expected term, cash flows based on the 90-day t-bill rates for 20 year forwards and a risk premium of 5.9%, the amount of interest that the Company was receiving on these securities when the market was last active. As of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the potential credit loss associated with these securities was $70,000, which the Company deemed other-than-temporarily impaired and recorded in other expense in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations during 2009. 24 Table of Contents Unless another rights offering or other similar offers are made to redeem at par and accepted by us, we intend to hold the balance of these investments through successful auctions at par, which we believe could take approximately 2.0 years. The valuation of the auction-rate securities is subject to fluctuations in the future, which will depend on many factors, including the collateral quality, potential to be called or restructured, underlying final maturity, insurance guaranty, liquidity and market conditions, among others. To determine the fair value of the auction-rate securities at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, we used a discounted cash flow model, for which there are three valuation parameters, including time-to-liquidity, discount rate and expected return. The following are the values used in the discounted cash flow model: December 31, 2009 March 31, 2010 Time-to-Liquidity 24 months 24 months Expected Return (Based on the requisite treasury rate, plus a contractual penalty rate) 2.4% 2.4% Discount Rate (Based on the requisite LIBOR, the cost of debt and a liquidity risk premium) 5.2% - 10.0%, depending on the credit-rating of the security 4.6% -9.4%, depending on the credit-rating of the security From the fourth quarter of 2009 to the first quarter of 2010, we kept the time-to-liquidity constant at 2.0 years. We sold $0.2 million in auction-rate securities at par. The spread between the 90-day labor and t-bill forward rate decreased by 40 bps and the FFELPs-guaranteed student-loan credit default spread decreased by 13 bps. The net effect of the adjustments was a reduction in the overall impairment from $1.8 million at December 31, 2009 to $1.5 million at March 31, 2010. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2010 was $5.3 million, primarily from the issuance of common stock in the amount of $5.1 million. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2009 was $1.5 million, primarily from the issuance of common stock in the amount of $1.5 million. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of many factors such as those discussed above, we believe that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for at least the next 12 months. For further details regarding our operating, investing and financing activities, see our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. We lease our headquarters and sales offices in San Jose, California under a non-cancelable operating lease which expires in October 2016. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases. In September 2004, we signed an agreement with the Chinese local authority to construct a facility in Chengdu, China. We have the option to acquire this facility in Chengdu after a five-year lease term, which option becomes available to us in March 2011. At that time, we will likely enter into a purchase agreement for this facility. We also lease our sales offices in Japan, China, Taiwan and Korea. As of March 31, 2010, our total outstanding purchase commitments with vendors were $38.4 million, which includes wafer purchases from our two foundries and the purchase of assembly services primarily from multiple contractors in Asia. This compares to purchase commitments of $13.2 million as of December 31, 2009. 25 Table of Contents Our contractual obligations have not changed significantly from that disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 12, 2010. As of March 31, 2010, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of the Securities and Exchange Commissions Regulation S-K.