ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements that involve many risks and uncertainties. These statements relate to future events and our future performance and are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the industries in which we operate and the beliefs and assumptions of our management. These include statements concerning, among others: the above-average industry growth of product and market areas that we have targeted, our plan to introduce additional new products within our existing product families as well as in new product categories and families, our intention to exercise our purchase option with respect to our manufacturing facility in Chengdu, China, our belief that we will continue to incur significant legal expenses that vary with the level of activity in each of our legal proceedings, the effect of auction-rate securities on our liquidity and capital resources, the application of our products in the Communications, Computing, Consumer and Industrial markets continuing to account for a majority of our revenue, estimates of our future liquidity requirements, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, protection of our proprietary technology, near term business outlook for 2013, the factors that we believe will impact our ability to achieve revenue growth, the outcome of the IRS audit of our tax return for the tax years ended December 31, 2005 through 2007, the percentage of our total revenue from various market segments, and the factors that differentiate us from our competitors. In some cases, words such as would, could, may, should, predict, potential, targets, continue, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, believe, seek, estimate, project, forecast, will, the negative of these terms or other variations of such terms and similar expressions relating to the future identify forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements are based on our current outlook, expectations, estimates, projections, beliefs and plans or objectives about our business and our industry. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual events or results could differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially include those set forth throughout this quarterly report on Form 10-Q and, in particular, in the section entitled Part II. Other Information, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Except as required by law, we disclaim any duty to and undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information relating to existing conditions, future events or otherwise or to release publicly the results of any future revisions we may make to forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q. Readers should carefully review future reports and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and any current reports on Form 8-K. The following managements discussion and analysis should be read in connection with the information presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes for the three months ended March 31, 2013 included in this report and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2012 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 5, 2013 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 18 Overview We are a fabless semiconductor company that designs, develops, and markets proprietary, advanced analog and mixed-signal semiconductors. Our products are used extensively in computing and network communications products, flat panel TVs, set top boxes and a wide variety of consumer and portable electronics products, automotive and industrial markets. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering solutions that are more highly integrated, smaller in size, more energy efficient, more accurate with respect to performance specifications and, consequently, more cost-effective than many competing solutions. We plan to continue to introduce new products within our existing product families, as well as in new innovative product categories. We operate in the cyclical semiconductor industry where there is seasonal demand for certain products. We are not and will not be immune from current and future industry downturns, but we have targeted product and market areas that we believe have the ability to offer above average industry performance. We work with third parties to manufacture and assemble our integrated circuits (ICs). This has enabled us to limit our capital expenditures and fixed costs, while focusing our engineering and design resources on our core strengths. Following the introduction of a product, our sales cycle generally takes a number of quarters after we receive an initial customer order for a new product to ramp up. Typical lead time for orders is fewer than 90 days. These factors, combined with the fact that orders in the semiconductor industry can typically be cancelled or rescheduled without significant penalty to the customer, make the forecasting of our orders and revenue difficult. We derive most of our revenue from sales through distribution arrangements and direct sales to customers in Asia, where the products we produce are incorporated into end-user products. 89% of our revenue for each of the quarters ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, was attributable to direct or indirect sales to customers in Asia. We derive a majority of our revenue from the sales of our DC to DC converter product family which services the Communications, Computing, Consumer and Industrial markets. We believe our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our ability to develop new products, enter new market segments, gain market share, manage litigation risk, diversify our customer base and successfully secure manufacturing capacity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We evaluate our estimates on an on-going basis, including those related to revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, long-term investments, short-term investments, inventories, income taxes, warranty obligations and contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements are, by their nature, uncertain and unpredictable, and depend upon, among other things, many factors outside of our control, such as demand for our products and economic conditions. Accordingly, our estimates and judgments may prove to be incorrect and actual results may differ, perhaps significantly, from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect our more significant judgments used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605-10-S25 Revenue Recognition Overall Recognition . ASC 605-10-S25 requires that four basic criteria must be met before revenue can be recognized: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (3) the fee is fixed or determinable; and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Determination of criteria (3) and (4) are based on managements judgment regarding the fixed nature of the fee charged for products delivered and the collectability of those fees. The application of these criteria has resulted in our generally recognizing revenue upon shipment (when title passes) to customers. Should changes in conditions cause management to determine these criteria are not met for certain future transactions, revenue recognized for any reporting period could be adversely impacted. Approximately 93% of our distributor sales, including sales to our value-added resellers, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were made through distribution arrangements with third parties. These arrangements do not include any special payment terms (our normal payment terms are 30-45 days for our distributors), price protection or exchange rights. Returns are limited to our standard product warranty. Certain of our large distributors have contracts that include limited stock rotation rights that permit the return of a small percentage of the previous six months purchases. 19 Approximately 7% of our distributor sales for the three months ended March 31, 2013 were made through small distributors primarily based on purchase orders. These distributors also have limited or no stock rotation rights. Our revenue consists primarily of sales of assembled and tested finished goods. We also sell die in wafer form to our customers and value-added resellers, and we receive royalty revenue from third parties and value-added resellers. We maintain a sales reserve for stock rotation rights, which is based on historical experience of actual stock rotation returns on a per distributor basis, where available, and information related to products in the distribution channel. This reserve is recorded at the time of sale. Historically, these returns were not material to our condensed consolidated financial statements. In the future, if we are unable to estimate our stock rotation returns accurately, we may not be able to recognize revenue from sales to our distributors based on when we sell inventory to our distributors. Instead, we may have to recognize revenue when the distributor sells through such inventory to an end-customer. We generally recognize revenue upon shipment of products to the distributor for the following reasons (based on ASC 605-15-25-1 Revenue Recognition Products Recognition Sales of Products When Right of Return Exists ): (1) Our price is fixed or determinable at the date of sale. We do not offer special payment terms, price protection or price adjustments to distributors where we recognize revenue upon shipment (2) Our distributors are obligated to pay us and this obligation is not contingent on the resale of our products (3) The distributors obligation is unchanged in the event of theft or physical destruction or damage to the products (4) Our distributors have stand-alone economic substance apart from our relationship (5) We do not have any obligations for future performance to directly bring about the resale of our products by the distributor (6) The amount of future returns can be reasonably estimated. We have the ability and the information necessary to track inventory sold to and held at our distributors. We maintain a history of returns and have the ability to estimate the stock rotation returns on a quarterly basis. If we enter into arrangements that have rights of return that are not estimable, we recognize revenue under such arrangements only after the distributor has sold our products to an end customer. The terms in a majority of our distribution agreements include the non-exclusive right to promote, develop a market for, and sell our products in certain regions of the world and the ability to terminate the distribution agreement by either party with up to three months notice. We provide a one year warranty against defects in materials and workmanship. Under this warranty, we will repair the goods, provide replacements at no charge, or, under certain circumstances, provide a refund to the customer for defective products. Estimated warranty returns and warranty costs are based on historical experience and are recorded at the time product revenue is recognized. Two of our U.S. distributors have distribution agreements where revenue is recognized upon sale by these distributors to their end customers because these distributors have certain rights of return which management believes are not estimable. The deferred income balance from these two distributors as of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 was $1.6 million and $1.4 million, respectively. Inventory Valuation. We value our inventory at the lower of the standard cost (which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis) or its current estimated market value. We write down inventory for obsolescence or lack of demand, based on assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Conversely, if market conditions are more favorable, inventory may be sold that was previously reserved. Accounting for Income Taxes. ASC 740-10 Income Taxes Overall prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This interpretation also provides guidance on classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods and disclosure. In accordance with ASC 740-10, we recognize federal, state and foreign current tax liabilities or assets based on our estimate of taxes payable or refundable in the current fiscal year by tax jurisdiction. We also recognize federal, state and foreign deferred tax assets or liabilities for our estimate of future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance to reduce any deferred tax assets by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence and judgment, are not expected to be realized. 20 Our calculation of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities is based on certain estimates and judgments and involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Our estimates of current and deferred tax assets and liabilities may change based, in part, on added certainty or finality or uncertainty to an anticipated outcome, changes in accounting or tax laws in the U.S., or foreign jurisdictions where we operate, or changes in other facts or circumstances. In addition, we recognize liabilities for potential U.S. and foreign income tax for uncertain income tax positions taken on our tax returns if it has less than a 50% likelihood of being sustained. If we determine that payment of these amounts is unnecessary or if the recorded tax liability is less than our current assessment, we may be required to recognize an income tax benefit or additional income tax expense in our financial statements in the period such determination is made. We have calculated our uncertain tax positions which were attributable to certain estimates and judgments primarily related to transfer pricing, cost sharing and our international tax structure exposure. As of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had a valuation allowance for each period of $12.5 million, attributable to managements determination that it is more likely than not that most of the deferred tax assets in the United States will not be realized. Should it be determined that additional amounts of the net deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future, an adjustment to increase the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, in the event we were to determine that it is more likely than not that we would be able to realize our deferred tax assets in the future in excess of our net recorded amount, an adjustment to the valuation allowance for the deferred tax asset would increase income in the period such determination was made. As a result of the cost sharing arrangements with the Companys international subsidiaries (cost share arrangements), relatively small changes in costs that are not subject to sharing under the cost share arrangements can significantly impact the overall profitability of the U.S. entity. Because of the U.S. entitys inconsistent earnings history and uncertainty of future earnings, the Company has determined that it is more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax benefits will not be realized. The Company incurred significant stock-based compensation expense, some of which related to incentive stock options and employees stock purchase plans for which no corresponding tax benefit will be recognized unless a disqualifying disposition occurs. Disqualifying dispositions result in a reduction of income tax expense in the period when the disqualifying disposition occurs. Tax benefits related to realized tax deductions in excess of previously expensed stock compensation are recorded as an addition to paid-in-capital. Contingencies . We and certain of our subsidiaries are parties to actions and proceedings incidental to our business in the ordinary course of business, including litigation regarding our intellectual property, challenges to the enforceability or validity of our intellectual property and claims that our products infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. The pending proceedings involve complex questions of fact and law and will require the expenditure of significant funds and the diversion of other resources to prosecute and defend. In addition, from time to time, we become aware that we are subject to other contingent liabilities. When this occurs, we will evaluate the appropriate accounting for the potential contingent liabilities using ASC 450-20-25-2 Contingencies Loss Contingencies - Recognition to determine whether a contingent liability should be recorded. In making this determination, management may, depending on the nature of the matter, consult with internal and external legal counsel and technical experts. Based on the facts and circumstances in each matter, we use our judgment to determine whether it is probable that a contingent loss has occurred and whether the amount of such loss can be estimated. If we determine a loss is probable and estimable, we record a contingent loss in accordance with ASC 450-20-25-2. In determining the amount of a contingent loss, we take into account advice received from experts for each specific matter regarding the status of legal proceedings, settlement negotiations (which may be ongoing), prior case history and other factors. Should the judgments and estimates made by management need to be adjusted as additional information becomes available, we may need to record additional contingent losses that could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Alternatively, if the judgments and estimates made by management are adjusted, for example, if a particular contingent loss does not occur, the contingent loss recorded would be reversed which could result in a favorable impact on our results of operations. Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation. We account for stock-based compensation under the provisions of ASC 718-10-30 Compensation Stock Compensation Overall Initial Measurement . This standard requires us to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments based on the grant-date fair value of the award. We currently use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to estimate the fair value of our share-based payments. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model is based on a number of assumptions, including historical volatility, expected life, risk-free interest rate and expected dividends. The fair value for time-based stock awards and stock awards that are contingent upon the achievement of financial performance metrics is based on the grant date share price. We recognize compensation expense equal to the grant-date fair value for all share-based payment awards that are expected to vest. This expense is recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the entire award, unless the awards are subject to market or performance conditions, in which case we recognize compensation expense over the requisite service period of each separate vesting tranche. We recognize compensation expense for our performance share units when it becomes probable that the performance criteria specified in the plan will be achieved. The amount of stock-based compensation that the Company recognizes is also based on an expected forfeiture rate. If there is a difference between the forfeiture assumptions used in determining stock-based compensation costs and the actual forfeitures which become known over time, we may change the forfeiture rate, which could have a significant impact on our stock-based compensation expense. 21 Fair Value of Financial Instruments. ASC 820-10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Overall defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and requires that assets and liabilities carried at fair value be classified and disclosed in one of the three categories, as follows: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets; Level 2: Significant other observable inputs; and Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs. ASC 820-10-35-51 Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Overall Subsequent Measurement Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly provides additional guidance for estimating fair value in accordance with ASC 820-10 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Overall , when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased. Our financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair market value. Short-term and long-term investments are stated at their fair market value. Investments in available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value, and unrealized gains or losses (that are deemed to be temporary) are recognized through shareholders' equity, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in our condensed consolidated balance sheet and in our condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income. We record an impairment charge to earnings when an available-for-sale investment has experienced a decline in value that is deemed to be other-than-temporary. Based on certain assumptions described in Note 8, Fair Value Measurements to our condensed consolidated financial statements and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Item 2, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this quarterly report on Form 10-Q, we recorded impairment charges on our holdings in auction-rate securities. The valuation of these securities is subject to fluctuations in the future, which will depend on many factors, including the collateral quality, potential to be called or restructured, underlying final maturity, insurance guaranty, liquidity and market conditions, among others. Results of Operations The table below sets forth the data from our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 51,470 100.0 % $ 50,484 100.0 % Cost of revenue 24,085 46.8 24,074 47.7 Gross profit 27,385 53.2 26,410 52.3 Operating expenses: Research and development 12,123 23.5 11,118 22.0 Selling, general and administrative 13,258 25.8 11,966 23.7 Litigation expense (benefit), net (301 ) (0.6 ) 128 0.3 Total operating expenses 25,080 48.7 23,212 46.0 Income from operations 2,305 4.5 3,198 6.3 Interest income and other, net (10 ) (0.0 ) 106 0.2 Income before income taxes 2,295 4.5 3,304 6.5 Income tax provision (204 ) (0.4 ) 309 0.6 Net income $ 2,499 4.9 % $ 2,995 5.9 % 22 Revenue The following table shows our revenue by product family: Three months ended March 31, Product Family 2013 % of Revenue 2012 % of Revenue Percent Change (In thousands, except percentages) DC to DC converters $ 46,442 90.2 % $ 44,342 87.8 % 4.7 % Lighting control products 5,028 9.8 % 6,142 12.2 % (18.1 %) Total $ 51,470 100.0 % $ 50,484 100.0 % 2.0 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $51.5 million, an increase of $1.0 million, or 2%, from $50.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. This increase was primarily due to increased demand for our DC to DC converters which was partially offset by decreased demand for our lighting control products. Revenue from our DC to DC converters was $46.4 million, an increase of $2.1 million, or 5%, over the same period in 2012 primarily due to increased demand for our Mini-Monster products. Revenue from our lighting control products for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was $5.0 million, a decrease of $1.1 million or 18% compared with the same period in 2012 primarily due to reductions in demand for our CCFL and WLED products for backlighting applications. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 Percent Change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue (1) $ 24,085 $ 24,074 0 % Cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue 46.8 % 47.7 % Gross profit $ 27,385 $ 26,410 4 % Gross margin 53.2 % 52.3 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense $ 156 $ 95 Cost of revenue consists primarily of costs incurred to manufacture, assemble and test our products, as well as other overhead costs relating to the aforementioned costs including stock-based compensation expense. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue, or gross margin, was 53.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to 52.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase in gross profit margin year-over-year was primarily due to an improved product mix offset in part by lower overhead capitalization compared to the same period in 2012. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of salary and benefit expenses for design and product engineers, expenses related to new product development, and related facility costs. Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 Percent Change (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development ("R&D") (1) $ 12,123 $ 11,118 9 % R&D as a percentage of revenue 23.5 % 22.0 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense $ 1,373 $ 1,266 R&D expenses were $12.1 million, or 23.5% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and $11.1 million, or 22.0% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2012. R&D expenses increased year-over-year primarily due to an increase in expenses associated with new product development partially offset by lower bonus accrual. Our R&D headcount as of March 31, 2013 was 398 employees, compared with 387 employees as of March 31, 2012. 23 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary and benefit expenses for sales, marketing and administrative personnel, sales commissions, travel expenses, related facilities costs, outside legal and accounting fees, and fees associated with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance requirements. Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 Percent Change (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") (1) $ 13,258 $ 11,966 11 % SG&A as a percentage of revenue 25.8 % 23.7 % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense $ 3,131 $ 1,954 SG&A expenses were $13.3 million, or 25.8% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and $12.0 million, or 23.7% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2012. SG&A expenses increased year-over-year primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expenses compared to the same period in 2012. Our SG&A headcount was 253 employees as of March 31, 2013, compared with 242 employees as of March 31, 2012. Litigation Expense (Benefit), net Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 Percent Change (in thousands, except percentages) Litigation expense (benefit) $ (301 ) $ 128 -335 % Litigation expense as a percentage of revenue -0.6 % 0.3 % Litigation benefit, net, was $0.3 million, or (0.6)% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to an expense of $0.1 million, or 0.3% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The year-over-year decrease in litigation expense was primarily due to $0.4 million received in connection with a settlement reached with Silergy. This payment was recorded as a credit to litigation expense (benefit), net, in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations. Interest Income (Expense) and Other, Net For the three months ended March 31, interest income (expense) and other, net, was an expense of ($10,000) in 2013 and income of $106,000 in 2012. Interest income and other fell year-over-year primarily due to a higher foreign exchange loss. Income Tax Provision The income tax benefit for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was ($204,000), or (8.9%) of our profit before income taxes. This differs from the federal statutory rate of 34% primarily because our foreign income was taxed at lower rates and because of the benefit that we realized as a result of stock option exercises and the releases of RSUs. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $309,000, or 9.4% of the income before income taxes. This differs from the federal statutory rate of 34% primarily because the Companys foreign income was taxed at lower rates and because of the benefit the Company realized as a result of stock option exercises and the releases of RSUs. 24 Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 (In thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 93,287 $ 75,104 Short-term investments 81,756 85,521 Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 175,043 $ 160,625 Percentage of total assets 56.3 % 55.9 % Total current assets $ 234,431 $ 214,301 Total current liabilities (27,810 ) (23,460 ) Working capital $ 206,621 $ 190,841 As of March 31, 2013, we had cash and cash equivalents of $93.3 million and short-term investments of $81.8 million, compared with cash and cash equivalents of $75.1 million and short-term investments of $85.5 million as of December 31, 2012. The increase of $18.2 million in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to net proceeds from short-term investments, cash generated from operating activites, proceeds from the exercise of stock options, and stock sold through our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) offset in part by investment in equipment. As of March 31, 2013, $47.6 million of the $93.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $17.0 million of the $81.8 million of short-term investments were held by our international subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we may be required to accrue and pay U.S. taxes to repatriate these funds. However, our intent is to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate them to fund our U.S. operations. The significant components of our working capital are cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, accounts receivable, inventories, deferred income taxes and prepaid expenses and other current assets, reduced by accounts payable, accrued and other current liabilities, deferred revenue and customer prepayments. As of March 31, 2013, we had working capital of $206.6 million, compared with working capital of $190.8 million as of December 31, 2012. The $15.8 million increase in working capital was due to a $20.1 million net increase in current assets net of a $4.3 million increase in current liabilities. The increase in current assets was primarily due to increase in cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and inventories, which were partially offset by reduction in short- term investments and prepaid expenses. The increase in cash and cash equivalents was primarily due to cash generated from operating activities and proceeds from exercises of stock options and ESPP purchase. In addition, accounts receivable increased primarily reflecting an increase in shipments. The increase in current liabilities was primarily due to increases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities. Summary of Cash Flows The table below summarizes the cash and cash equivalents provided by (used in) our operating, investing and financing activities for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 (In thousands) Cash provided by operating activities $ 6,704 $ 6,219 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 250 (29,190 ) Cash provided by financing activities 11,138 5,121 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 91 210 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 18,183 $ (17,640 ) For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by operating activities was $6.7 million, primarily due to cash contributed from our operating results during the year, which was partially offset by increases in both accounts receivable and inventories. The increase in accounts receivable resulted primarily from an increase in shipments in the first quarter of 2013 and the timing of those shipments. The increase in inventories was primarily due to an increase in strategic wafer and die bank inventories as well as an increase in finished goods necessary to meet anticipated future demand. For the quarter ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by investing activities was $0.3 million reflecting net proceeds of $3.7 million from short-term investments, which was offset by $3.4 million of equipment and software purchases. We use professional investment management firms to manage the majority of our invested cash. Our fixed income portfolio is primarily invested in US government securities and auction-rate securities. The balance of the fixed income portfolio is managed internally and invested primarily in money market securities for working capital purposes. 25 As of March 31, 2013 our investment portfolio included $11.7 million, in government-backed student loan auction-rate securities, net of impairment charges of $535,000, of which $505,000 was temporary and $30,000 was other-than-temporary. This compares to an investment balance of auction-rate securities as of December 31, 2012 of $11.8 million, net of impairment charges of $520,000, of which $490,000 was temporary and $30,000 was other-than-temporary. The underlying maturities of these auction-rate securities are up to 35 years. As of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the portion of the impairment classified as temporary was based on the following analysis: 1. The decline in the fair value of these securities is not attributable to adverse conditions specifically related to these securities or to specific conditions in an industry or in a geographic area; 2. Management possesses both the intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value; 3. Management believes that it is more likely than not that we will not have to sell these securities before recovery of its cost basis; 4. Except for the credit loss of $70,000 recognized in the year ended December 31, 2009 for our holdings in auction rate securities described below, we do not believe that there is any additional credit loss associated with other auction-rate securities because we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis; 5. $6.3 million of the auction-rate securities were downgraded by Moodys to A3-Baa3 during the year ended December 31, 2009.; 6. All scheduled interest payments have been made pursuant to the reset terms and conditions; and 7. All redemptions of auction-rate securities representing 72% of the original portfolio have been at par. Based on the guidance of ASC 320-10-35 and ASC 320-10-50, we evaluated the potential credit loss of each of the auction-rate securities that are currently held by us. Based on such analysis, we determined that those securities that are not 100% Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELPS) guaranteed are potentially subject to credit risks based on the extent to which the underlying debt is collateralized and the security-specific student-loan default rates. The senior parity ratio for the two securities is approximately 106%. If, therefore, the student-loan default rate and borrowing rate increases for these issuers, the remaining balance in these trusts may not be sufficient to cover the senior debt. We therefore concluded that there is potential credit risk for these two securities and as such, used the discounted cash flow model to determine the amount of credit loss to be recorded. In valuing the potential credit loss, the following parameters were used: 2.0 year expected term, cash flows based on the 90-day t-bill rates for 2.0 year forwards and a risk premium of 5.9%, the amount of interest that we were receiving on these securities when the market was last active. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the potential credit loss associated with these securities was $70,000, which we deemed other-than-temporary and recorded in other expense in its Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations during 2009. There have been no such losses since. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we were able to redeem one of these two securities at par and therefore, recognized a gain of $40,000 in interest income and other, net, in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Unless a rights offering or other similar offer is made to redeem at par and accepted by us, we intend to hold the balance of these investments through successful auctions at par, which we believe could take approximately 2.0 years. Determining the fair value of the auction-rate securities requires significant management judgment regarding projected future cash flows which will depend on many factors, including the quality of the underlying collateral, estimated time for liquidity including potential to be called or restructured, underlying final maturity, insurance guaranty and market conditions, among others. To determine the fair value of the auction-rate securities at March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we used a discounted cash flow model, for which there are four unobservable inputs: estimated time-to-liquidity, discount rate, credit quality of the issuer and expected interest receipts. A significant increase in the time-to-liquidity or the discount rate inputs or a significant decrease in the credit quality of the issuer or the expected interest receipts inputs in isolation would result in a significantly lower fair value measurement. The following are the values used in the discounted cash flow model: March 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Time-to-liquidity (months) 24 24 Expected return (based on the requisite treasury rate, plus a contractual penalty rate) 1.7% 1.8% Discount rate (based on the requisite LIBOR, the cost of debt and a liquidity risk premium) 2.5% - 7.3%, depending on the credit-rating of the security 2.5% - 7.3% depending on the credit-rating of the security 26 Net cash provided by financing activities for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 was $11.1 million primarily reflecting a combined $9.8 million of cash received from the exercise of stock options and $1.2 million cash received from stock sold through our ESPP. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $5.1 million, primarily from the proceeds from the exercise of stock options in the amount of $4.0 million and proceeds of $1.0 million in cash received from stock sold through our ESPP. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of many factors such as those discussed above, we believe that cash generated from our operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and short-term investments, will be sufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding our operating, investing and financing activities, see the Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In the future, in order to strengthen our financial position, in the event of unforeseen circumstances, or in the event we need to fund our growth in future financial periods, we may need to raise additional funds by any one or a combination of the following: issuing equity securities, issuing debt or convertible debt securities, incurring indebtedness secured by our assets, or selling certain product lines and/or portions of our business. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional funds on terms acceptable to us, or at all. From time to time, we have engaged in discussions with third parties concerning potential acquisitions of product lines, technologies and businesses, and we continue to consider potential acquisition candidates. Any such transactions could involve the issuance of a significant number of new equity securities, debt, and/or cash consideration. We may also be required to raise additional funds to complete any such acquisition, through either the issuance of equity and debt securities or incurring indebtedness secured by our assets. If we raise additional funds or acquire businesses or technologies through the issuance of equity securities, our existing stockholders may experience significant dilution. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We lease our research and development and sales offices in the United States, Japan, China, Taiwan and Korea. Certain of our facility leases provide for periodic rent increases. In September 2004, we signed an agreement with the Chinese local authority to construct a facility in Chengdu, China. Pursuant to this agreement, we agreed to contribute capital in the form of cash, in-kind assets, and/or intellectual property, of at least $5.0 million to our wholly-owned Chinese subsidiary as the registered capital for the subsidiary and exercised the option to purchase land use rights for the facility of approximately $0.2 million. Following the five-year lease term, we now have an option to acquire this facility in Chengdu for approximately $1.8 million which consist of total construction cost incurred minus total rent paid by us during the lease term. This option became exercisable in March 2011 and does not expire. We will likely exercise our purchase option and enter into a purchase agreement for this facility in the future. We constructed a 150,000 square foot research and development facility in Chengdu, China which was put into operation in October 2010. As of March 31, 2013, our total outstanding purchase commitments were $16.4 million, which includes wafer purchases from our three foundries and the purchase of assembly services primarily from multiple contractors in Asia. This compares to purchase commitments of $15.5 million as of December 31, 2012. Our other contractual obligations have not changed significantly from that disclosed in our annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 5, 2013.