Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources . The credit agreement governing our indebtedness contains restrictions and limitations that may restrict our business and financing activities and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. The credit agreement governing our credit facility contains various covenants that are operative so long as our credit facility remains outstanding. The covenants, among other things, limit our and certain of our subsidiaries abilities to: incur additional indebtedness; create or incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations, amalgamations, liquidations, dissolutions or dispositions; make investments, acquisitions, loans (including guarantees), advances or capital contributions; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; conduct, transact or otherwise engage in certain business or operations; create negative pledges or restrictions on the payment of dividends or payment of other amounts owed from subsidiaries; make prepayments or repurchases of debt that is subordinated with respect to right of payment; modify certain documents governing debt that is subordinated with respect to right of payment; pay dividends and distributions on, or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock; and 32 Table of Contents engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Our credit agreement also contains a financial covenant which requires that, at the end of each fiscal quarter, for so long as the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our revolving credit facility exceeds 35% of the aggregate commitments under the revolving credit facility, our first lien net leverage ratio cannot exceed 7.50 to 1.00. A breach of this financial covenant will not result in a default or event of default under the term loan facility under our credit agreement unless and until the lenders under our revolving credit facility have terminated the commitments under the revolving credit facility and declared the borrowings under the revolving credit facility due and payable. Our credit agreement also contains numerous affirmative covenants that will remain in effect as long as our credit facility remains outstanding. We are also required to make mandatory prepayments of the obligations under our credit facility in certain circumstances, including upon certain asset sales or receipt of certain insurance proceeds or condemnation awards, upon certain issuances of debt, and, annually, with a portion of our excess cash flow. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the credit agreement governing our credit facility may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The restrictions in the credit agreement governing our credit facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Even if our credit agreement is terminated, any additional debt that we incur in the future could subject us to similar or additional covenants. The credit agreement includes customary events of default, including, among others, failure to pay principal, interest or other amounts; material inaccuracy of representations and warranties; violation of covenants; specified cross-default and cross-acceleration to other material indebtedness; certain bankruptcy and insolvency events; certain ERISA events; certain undischarged judgments; material invalidity of guarantees or grant of security interest; and change of control. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the termination of our credit agreement or an acceleration of the obligations under the credit agreement. Any such default would permit the applicable lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, such a default or acceleration may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness, the lenders under our credit facility could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under our credit facility and may not be able to repay the amounts due under our credit facility. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The success of our business depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology and our business might be adversely affected. However, protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights might entail significant expenses. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others, weakened or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade dress, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection. As of December 31, 2022, we had six issued patents. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that these patents, or our existing patents, will adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. Our patents and any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Any patents that are issued may subsequently be invalidated or otherwise limited, allowing other companies to develop offerings that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Patent applications in the United States are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our patented software or technology. 33 Table of Contents We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours and may infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Further, any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could be costly and time-consuming. Our exposure to risks related to the protection of intellectual property may be increased in the context of acquired technologies as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process and the actions taken to establish and protect proprietary rights in the acquired technology. In connection with past acquisitions, we have found that some associated intellectual property rights, such as domain names and trademarks in certain jurisdictions, are owned by resellers, distributors or other third parties. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining assignments of these associated intellectual property rights from third parties. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our solutions are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States (in particular, some foreign jurisdictions do not permit patent protection for software), and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. In addition, the legal standards, both in the United States and in foreign countries, relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially viable. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our offerings and subject us to possible litigation. Some of our offerings incorporate open source software, and we intend to continue to use open source software in the future. Some terms of certain open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to monetize our offerings. Additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source software license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license to continue offering the software or cease offering the implicated services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement or violation. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be willing to entertain the cost associated with updating the software or be able to complete it successfully. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software and, thus, may contain security vulnerabilities or infringing or broken code. Additionally, if we utilize open source licenses that require us to contribute to open source projects, this software code is publicly available; and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such software source code may be limited or lost entirely. We may be unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Risks Related to Cybersecurity Cyberattacks, including the Cyber Incident, and other security incidents have resulted, and in the future may result, in compromises or breaches of our, our MSP partners, or their SME customers systems, the insertion of malicious code, malware, ransomware or other vulnerabilities into our, our MSP partners, or their SME customers systems, the exploitation of vulnerabilities in our, our MSP partners, or their SME customers environments, the theft or misappropriation of our, our MSP partners, or their SME customers proprietary and confidential information, and interference with our, our MSP partners, or their SME customers operations, exposure to legal and other liabilities, higher MSP partner and employee attrition and the loss of key personnel, negative impacts to our sales, renewals and upgrades and reputational harm and other serious negative consequences, any or all of which could materially harm our business. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure to operate our business, and our MSP partners rely on our solutions to help manage and secure their IT infrastructure and environments, and that of their SME customers, including the protection of confidential information. Despite our implementation of security measures and controls, our systems, the systems of our third-party service providers upon which we rely, the systems of our MSP partners and the virtualized systems of our MSP partners, as well as the information that those systems store and process are vulnerable to attack from numerous threat actors, including sophisticated nation-state and nation-state-supported actors (including advanced persistent threat intrusions). Threat actors have been, and may in the future be, able to compromise our security measures or otherwise exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, including vulnerabilities that may have been introduced through the actions of our employees or contractors or defects in design or manufacture of our products and systems or the products and systems that we procure from third parties. In doing so, they have been, and may in the future be, able to breach or compromise our IT systems, including those which we use to design, develop, deploy and support our products, and access and misappropriate our, our current and former employees and our MSP partners proprietary and confidential information, including our software source code, introduce malware, ransomware or vulnerabilities into our products and systems and create system disruptions or shutdowns. By virtue of the role our products play in helping to manage and secure the environments and systems of our MSP partners and their SME customers, attacks on our systems and products can result in similar impacts on our MSP partners and their SME customers systems and data. Cybersecurity has become increasingly important to our MSP partners as their SME customers experience increased security threats while more of their workforce works remotely during the COVID-19 pandemic. Larger volumes of remote devices are connecting to SMEs networks driving increased vulnerability and incidences of ransomware and phishing attacks are growing, making security a high priority for SMEs. The potential impact of cybersecurity breaches or incidents affecting MSP partners remote monitoring of multiple SME customers networks and devices is significant. Moreover, the number and scale of cyberattacks have continued to increase and the methods and techniques used by threat actors, including sophisticated supply-chain attacks such as the Cyber Incident, continue to evolve at a rapid pace. As a result, we may be unable to identify current attacks, anticipate these attacks or implement adequate security measures. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period and, therefore, have a greater impact on our solutions, our proprietary data or the data of our MSP partners or their SME customers, and ultimately on our business. In addition, our ability to defend against and mitigate cyberattacks depends in part on prioritization decisions that we and third parties upon whom we rely make to address vulnerabilities and security defects. While we endeavor to address all identified vulnerabilities in our products, we must make determinations as to how we prioritize developing and deploying the respective fixes and we may be unable to do so prior to an attack. Likewise, even once a vulnerability has been addressed, for certain of our products, the fix will only be effective once an MSP partner has updated the impacted product with the latest release, and MSP partners that do not install and run the remediated versions of our products, and their SME customers, may remain vulnerable to attack. Cyberattacks, including the Cyber Incident, and other security incidents have resulted, and in the future may result, in numerous risks and adverse consequences to our business, including that (a) our prevention, mitigation and remediation efforts may not be successful or sufficient, (b) our confidential and proprietary information, including our source code, as well as personal information related to current or former employees and MSP partners, may be accessed, exfiltrated, misappropriated, compromised or corrupted, (c) we incur significant financial, legal, reputational and other harms to our business, including, loss of business, decreased sales, severe reputational damage adversely affecting current and prospective customer, employee or vendor relations and investor confidence, U.S. or foreign regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contractual breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, including laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions relating to the collection, use and security of user and other personally identifiable information and data, significant costs for remediation, impairment of our ability to protect our intellectual property, stock price volatility and other significant liabilities, (d) our insurance coverage, including coverage relating to certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses, may not be available or sufficient to compensate for all liabilities we incur related to these matters or that we may face increased costs to obtain and maintain insurance in the future, 35 Table of Contents and (e) our steps to secure our internal environment, adapt and enhance our software development and build environments and ensure the security and integrity of the solutions that we deliver to our MSP partners may not be successful or sufficient to protect against future threat actors or cyberattacks. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to our cybersecurity initiatives. The Cyber Incident has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, MSP partner and employee relations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. On December 14, 2020, SolarWinds announced that it had been the victim of a cyberattack (the Cyber Incident) on its Orion Software Platform and internal systems. SolarWinds investigation revealed that as part of this attack, malicious code (Sunburst) was injected into builds of SolarWinds Orion Software Platform that it released between March 2020 and June 2020. If present and activated in a customers IT environment, Sunburst could potentially allow an attacker to compromise the server on which the Orion Software Platform was installed. The Cyber Incident has been widely reported by SolarWinds and other third parties and appears to be one of the most complex and sophisticated cyberattacks in history. SolarWinds investigations have revealed that the threat actor employed novel and sophisticated techniques indicative of a nation state actor and consistent with the goal of cyber espionage via a supply-chain attack. Through the use of the novel SUNSPOT code injector that SolarWinds discovered in its investigation, the threat actor surreptitiously injected the Sunburst malicious code solely into builds of the Orion Software Platform. The threat actor undertook a test run of its ability to inject code into builds of the Orion Software Platform in October 2019, months prior to initiating the actual Sunburst injection into builds of the Orion Software Platform that SolarWinds released between March and June 2020. SolarWinds has not identified Sunburst in any of its more than 70 non-Orion products and tools, including, as previously disclosed, any of our N-able solutions. As a result of the Cyber Incident, we are faced with significant risks. As a part of SolarWinds and our prior branding as SolarWinds MSP, the Cyber Incident has harmed, and may continue to harm, our reputation, our MSP partner and employee relations and our operations and business as a result of both the impact it has had on our relationships with existing and prospective customers and the significant time and resources that our personnel have had and may have to devote to investigating and responding to the Cyber Incident. Customers have and may in the future defer purchasing or choose to cancel or not renew their agreements or subscriptions with us as a result of the Cyber Incident. We have expended significant costs and expenses related to the Cyber Incident including in connection with investigations, our remediation efforts, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the threat actors access to and exfiltration of information related to our current or former employees and MSP partners, and our measures to address the damage to our reputation and MSP partner and employee relations. We are also expending additional costs in connection with our ongoing cybersecurity-related initiatives. If we are unable to maintain the trust of our current and prospective MSP partners and their SME customers, negative publicity continues and/or our personnel continue to have to devote significant time to the Cyber Incident, our business, market share, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. SolarWinds has confirmed to us that it has concluded its internal investigations relating to the Cyber Incident. While SolarWinds does not know precisely when or how the threat actor first gained access to its environment, its investigations uncovered evidence that the threat actor compromised credentials and conducted research and surveillance in furtherance of its objectives through persistent access to its software development environment and internal systems, including its Office 365 environment, for at least nine months prior to initiating the test run in October 2019. During this entire period, we were a part of the SolarWinds shared environment and the threat actor had persistent access to our systems and Office 365 environment. SolarWinds also has found evidence that causes us to believe that the threat actor exfiltrated certain information as part of its research and surveillance. The threat actor created and moved files that we believe contained source code for our products, although we are unable to determine the actual contents of those files. The threat actor also created and moved additional files, including files that may have contained data about our MSP partners and files that may have contained data relating to trial and product activation of our N-central On Demand solution. We do not believe that any information of the customers of our MSP Partners would have been included in the files that were created by the threat actor. Although we are unable to determine the actual contents of these files, with respect to the files that may have contained data about our MSP partners, we believe the information included in such files would not have contained highly sensitive personal information, such as credit card, social security, passport or bank account numbers, but could have contained other information such as MSP partner IDs, business email addresses and encrypted MSP partner portal login credentials. With respect to the files that may have contained data relating to trial and product activation of our N-central On Demand solutions, although we are unable to determine the actual content of such files, the information included in such files could have contained MSP partner user names and N-central On Demand initial passwords generated by N-able. The threat actor also moved files to a jump server, which SolarWinds believes was intended to facilitate exfiltration of the files out of the shared environment. Investigations to date have also revealed that the threat actor accessed the email accounts of certain of our personnel, some of which contained information related to current or former employees and MSP partners. SolarWinds has notified us that it has identified all personal information contained in 36 Table of Contents the emails of these accounts, and has informed us that it has provided notices to any impacted individuals and other parties as required. The discovery of new or different information regarding the Cyber Incident, including with respect to its scope, the activities of the threat actor within the shared SolarWinds environment and the related impact on any of our systems, solutions, current or former employees and MSP partners, could increase our costs and liabilities related to the Cyber Incident and expose us to claims, investigations by U.S. federal and state and foreign governmental officials and agencies, civil and criminal litigation, including securities class action and other lawsuits, and other liability, resulting in material remedial and other expenses which may not be covered by insurance, including fines and further damage to our business, reputation, intellectual property, results of operations and financial condition. Although, subject to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, SolarWinds would indemnify us for costs we may incur, any such claims, investigations or lawsuits may result in the incurrence of significant external and internal legal and advisory costs and expenses and reputational damage to our business, as well as the diversion of managements attention from the operation of our business and a negative impact on our employee morale. We also may not have sufficient insurance coverage for any claims or expenses to the extent that certain costs are not covered under SolarWinds insurance coverage or the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement indemnification. The Cyber Incident also may embolden other threat actors to target our systems, which could result in additional harm to our business, reputation, intellectual property, results of operations and financial conditions. Although we have and expect to continue to deploy significant resources as part of our security infrastructure, we cannot ensure that our steps to secure our internal environment, improve our software development and build environments and protect the security and integrity of the solutions that we deliver will be successful or sufficient to protect against future threat actors or cyberattacks or perceived by existing and prospective MSP partners as sufficient to address the harm caused by the Cyber Incident. Risks Related to Accounting and Taxation Failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act and are required to prepare our financial statements according to the rules and regulations required by the SEC. In addition, the Exchange Act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports. Any failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner or to otherwise comply with applicable law could subject us to penalties under federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal