Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Please see the section entitled Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement above and the risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Overview N-able, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries (Company, we, us and our) is a leading global provider of cloud-based software solutions for managed service providers (MSPs), enabling them to support digital transformation and growth for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which we define as those enterprises having fewer than 1,000 employees. With a flexible technology platform and powerful integrations, N-able makes it easy for MSPs to monitor, manage and protect their end-customer systems, data and networks. Our growing portfolio of security, automation and backup and recovery solutions is built for IT services management professionals. N-able simplifies complex ecosystems and enables customers to solve their most pressing challenges. In addition, we provide extensive, proactive supportthrough enriching partner programs, hands-on training and growth resourcesto help MSPs deliver exceptional value and achieve success at scale. Through our multi-dimensional land and expand model and global presence, we are able to drive strong recurring revenue growth and profitability. SolarWinds Cyber Incident On August 6, 2020, SolarWinds Corporation (SolarWinds or Parent) announced that its board of directors had authorized management to explore a potential spin-off of its MSP business into our company, a newly created and separately traded public company, and separate into two distinct, publicly traded companies (the Separation). On July 19, 2021, SolarWinds completed the Separation through a pro-rata distribution (the Distribution) of all the outstanding shares of our common stock it held to the stockholders of record of SolarWinds as of the close of business on July 12, 2021. As a result of the Distribution, we became an independent public company and our common stock is listed under the symbol NABL on the New York Stock Exchange. As previously disclosed, SolarWinds was the victim of a cyberattack on its Orion Software Platform and internal systems, or the Cyber Incident. SolarWinds concluded its internal investigations related to the Cyber Incident and did not identify SUNBURST in any of its more than 70 non-Orion products and tools, including, as previously disclosed, any of our N-able solutions. In response to the Cyber Incident and in connection with the Separation and Distribution, we continue to work to further enhance security, monitoring and authentication of our solutions. Specifically, we have implemented in-product security enhancements to the N-able portfolio of products, including, multi-factor authentication, unified single sign-on services and secure secret vaults. We have also introduced new identity and access controls, scanning and remediation technologies and standards and monitoring tooling across our enterprise IT and production environments. We expect to incur additional expenses in future periods related to continued enhancements to our security measures across our solutions. Of the expenses SolarWinds recorded related to the Cyber Incident through the Separation and Distribution date of July 19, 2021, none were allocated to the N-able business and, as a result of the indemnification provisions under the Separation and Distribution Agreement entered into in connection with the Separation and Distribution (the Separation and Distribution Agreement), we have not recorded any contingent liabilities with respect to the Cyber Incident as of June 30, 2024 and December 31, 2023. In addition, as a result of the Cyber Incident, SolarWinds has been subject to numerous lawsuits and governmental investigations or inquiries. To date, we have not been separately named in such lawsuits and investigations, but in the future we may become subject to lawsuits, investigations or inquiries related to the Cyber Incident. In such event, subject to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, SolarWinds would indemnify us for costs we may incur. We believe the Cyber Incident has caused reputational harm to SolarWinds and also had an adverse impact on our reputation, new subscription sales and net retention rates. In general, our sales cycles and time from contract to revenue recognition are primarily short in nature, and we believe that the adverse impacts of the Cyber Incident on our financial results have diminished. Nevertheless, there is risk that the Cyber Incident may continue to have an adverse impact on our business in future periods, and to the extent such impact continues, including as a result of new discoveries or events, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. 22 Second Quarter Financial Highlights Revenue We deliver a platform of solutions that enables our MSP partners to manage and secure the IT environments and assets for their SME end customers, as well as more efficiently manage their own businesses. Our total revenue was $119.4 million and $106.1 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. During the six months ended June 30, 2024, we began increasing the proportion of our subscriptions that are long-term committed contracts, as compared to month-to-month contracts (the Long-Term Contract Initiative). Under Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), we recognize revenue for long-term subscriptions when the distinct license is made available to the customer, and support revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term. Point in time subscription revenue increased from $15.5 million during the three months ended June 30, 2023 to $19.6 million during the three months ended June 30, 2024, and from $30.8 million during the six months ended June 30, 2023 to $36.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2024. The increase in point in time subscription revenue was primarily due to the impact of revenue recognition for long-term committed contracts under Topic 606, net of any volume and pricing rationalization when committing to long-term subscriptions. See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding revenue recognized from subscription and other services at a point in time and over time. As of June 30, 2024, we had approximately 25,000 customers. Additionally, as of June 30, 2024, we had 2,194 MSP partners with annualized recurring revenue (ARR) over $50,000 on our platform, up from 2,162 as of June 30, 2023, representing an increase of approximately 1.5%. The number of MSP partners may fluctuate over time as the result of a number of factors. Over the same period, MSP partners with over $50,000 of ARR on our platform grew from approximately 55% of our total ARR as of June 30, 2023 to approximately 56% of our total ARR as of June 30, 2024. We define ARR as the annualized recurring revenue as of the last month of a given period. We calculate ARR by multiplying the recurring revenue and related usage revenue, excluding the impacts of credits and reserves, recognized during the final month of the reporting period from both long-term and month-to-month subscriptions by twelve. We use ARR, and in particular, ARR attributable to MSP partners with over $50,000 of ARR, to enhance the understanding of our business performance and the growth of our relationships with our MSP partners. Profitability We have grown while maintaining high levels of operating efficiency. Our operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2024 was $22.0 million compared to operating income of $15.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Our net income for the three months ended June 30, 2024 was $9.5 million compared to net income of $4.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2023. The increase in net income for the three months ended June 30, 2024 was primarily due to an increase in revenue, a decrease in sales and marketing expense and an increase in other income, net, partially offset by an increase in general and administrative expense, an increase in research and development expense, an increase in cost of revenue, an increase in income tax expense and an increase in interest expense, net. Our Adjusted EBITDA, calculated as net income of $9.5 million and $4.5 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets and developed technology of $1.9 million and $1.4 million, respectively, depreciation expense of $4.0 million and $3.8 million, respectively, income tax expense of $6.1 million and $4.8 million, respectively, interest expense, net of $7.6 million and $7.5 million, respectively, unrealized foreign currency losses of $0.4 million and $0.5 million, respectively, transaction related costs of $4.9 million and $(0.3) million, respectively, spin-off costs of $0.0 million and $0.2 million, respectively, stock-based compensation expense and related employer-paid payroll taxes of $12.2 million and $12.0 million, respectively, and restructuring costs and other of $0.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively, was $46.8 million and $34.9 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Cash Flow We have built our business to generate strong cash flow over the long term. For the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, cash flows from operations were $27.3 million and $20.7 million, respectively. Our cash flows from operations were reduced by cash payments for interest of $7.3 million and $7.0 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and cash payments for income taxes of $4.2 million and $5.2 million for the three months ended June 30, 2024 and 2023, respectively. 23 Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of the following: Subscription Revenue. We primarily derive subscription revenue from the sale of subscriptions to the SaaS solutions that we host and manage on our platform. Our subscriptions provide access to the latest versions of our software platform, technical support and unspecified software upgrades and updates. Subscription revenue for our SaaS solutions is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term once the service is made available to the MSP partner or when we have the right to invoice for services performed. In addition, our subscription revenue includes sales of our self-managed solutions, which are hosted and managed by our MSP partners. Subscriptions of our self-managed solutions include term licenses, technical support and unspecified software upgrades. Revenue from the license performance obligation of our self-managed solutions is recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the access to the licenses and revenue from the performance obligation related to the technical support and unspecified software upgrades of our subscription-based license arrangements is recognized ratably over the agreement period. We generally invoice subscription agreements monthly based on usage or in advance over the subscription period on either a monthly or annual basis. Other Revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of revenue from the sale of our maintenance services associated with the historical sales of perpetual licenses and revenue from professional services. MSP partners with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive technical support and unspecified upgrades or enhancements to new versions of their solutions on a when-and-if-available basis for the specified agreement period. Cost of Revenue Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists of public cloud infrastructure and hosting fees, an allocation of overhead costs for our subscription revenue and maintenance services, royalty fees and technical support personnel costs. We allocate facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs based on headcount. Amortization of Acquired Technologies. We amortize to cost of revenue capitalized costs of technologies acquired in connection with the take private transaction of SolarWinds in early 2016 and subsequent business combinations, including the July 1, 2022 acquisition of Spinpanel B.V. (Spinpanel). Amortization related to the take private transaction of SolarWinds concluded during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses as well as amortization of acquired intangibles. Generally, personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and include salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation and related employer-paid payroll taxes, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. We had total employees of 1,623, 1,584, and 1,567 as of June 30, 2024, December 31, 2023, and June 30, 2023, respectively. Our stock-based compensation expense increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2024 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to the impact of new equity awards that were granted to employees through June 30, 2024. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of related personnel costs, including our sales, marketing, partner success and product management teams, net of capitalized commissions related to long-term committed contracts, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of digital marketing programs such as paid search, search engine optimization and management and website maintenance and design, marketing development funds, as well as the cost of events for existing and prospective customers. We expect to continue to grow our sales and marketing organization over time to drive new MSP partner adds, retain and expand with existing MSP partners and pursue initiatives designed to help our MSP partners succeed and grow. Research and Development. Research and development expenses primarily consist of related personnel costs, including our engineering, development operations, user experience and security operations teams, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. We expect to continue to grow our research and development organization over time and also to incur additional expenses associated with bringing new product offerings to market and our enhancements of security, monitoring and authentication of our solutions. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel costs for executives, finance, legal, human resources, business applications and other administrative personnel, general restructuring charges and other transaction related costs, professional fees and other general corporate expenses, as well as an allocation of our facilities, 24 depreciation, IT and benefits costs. We expect to continue to grow our general and administrative organization over time to support continued growth of our business. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles. We amortize to operating expenses capitalized costs of intangible assets primarily acquired in connection with the take private transaction of SolarWinds in early 2016 and subsequent business combinations, including the July 1, 2022 acquisition of Spinpanel. Amortization related to the take private transaction of SolarWinds concluded during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of interest expense related to the Credit Agreement and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated accounts, partially offset by gains resulting from changes in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated accounts and dividend income from our money market fund financial assets. See