Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Industry Background Companies of all sizes across sectors and geographies continue to invest in modern cloud and digital technology to transform their organizations and compete effectively. Technology is becoming increasingly mission critical as SMBs and mid-market companies use digital means to improve productivity, work remotely, manage and monitor their businesses, run operations and engage with customers and other key stakeholders. As evidence of the importance of technology to SMBs and mid-market companies, we believe IT spending by businesses with fewer than 2,500 employees is expected to increase from $1.9 trillion in 2024 to $2.6 trillion by 2028. Digital transformation creates challenges and complexities As SMBs and mid-market companies increase their investment in and reliance on these technologies, the importance of IT availability and functionality to their businesses grows. Selecting, purchasing and implementing new technology infrastructures and deploying new applications and devices can be complex and create financial, personnel and other challenges. Many lack the financial resources, headcount and expertise needed to independently manage the complexity associated with digital transformation and therefore rely on IT services providers that specialize in providing SMBs and mid-market companies with reliable and scalable services to deploy, manage and secure their IT environments. Challenges associated with digital transformation for SMBs and mid-market companies include: 1)IT management and security are not core competencies for most companies. Deploying, managing and securing complex and constantly evolving IT systems are often not core competencies and can divert focus, capital and other critical resources away from fundamental business objectives. Modern infrastructures, applications and devices require teams with expertise across a variety of technical disciplines such as security, database administration, IT, development operations and network administration. Despite being increasingly dependent on technology solutions, many businesses lack the requisite time, resources and expertise. 2)Companies face growing cyber-threats. Protecting networks, applications, devices, data and users from cybercrime, such as ransomware, phishing and other costly attacks is paramount. Security issues can create significant legal complications, be financially crippling and damage businesss brand and reputation. 3)IT and other compliance costs and burdens are increasing. SMBs and mid-market companies are not exempt from compliance obligations and can be disproportionately burdened due to limited resources and expertise. Laws, regulations, rules and standards governing IT, privacy, security, personnel and industries are complex, constantly changing and varied across geographies and sectors, with many obligations carrying criminal penalties for non-compliance. 4)Proliferation of connected endpoints is driving increased complexity. Due to the growing number of networked, highly distributed and diverse endpoints, the burden to manage, provision and secure these endpoints across cloud, on-premises and hybrid cloud infrastructures is becoming increasingly complex. 5)Expectations for always-on, always-available IT environments compound pressures. Customers, employees and other stakeholders increasingly expect always-on, always-available access to digital resources. Establishing and maintaining connectivity and availability is critical to the success of many businesses, who must ensure that their employees and distributed workforces have access to required systems, applications and devices and that their customers can obtain information and conduct business online at any time. 5 Table of Contents Rise of the Managed IT Services Model As SMBs and mid-market companies invest in technology and their needs for continuous availability, performance and security grow, they are increasingly relying on IT services providers, such as MSPs, to manage these aspects of their businesses. MSPs support these businesses by helping them procure and deploy key technologies and by providing oversight, management and security of their IT systems and devices. Rather than charging their customers by the task, MSPs typically have recurring annual or monthly contracts to deliver these on-going services. MSPs also may work in collaboration with companies internal IT departments in a co-managed model to deliver specific expertise and share responsibilities. We see a growing number of IT services providers, such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, IT consultants and data center operators, adopting a managed services model as demand for these services increases. These IT service providers can benefit from a software platform that supports the managed services model and meets the wide-ranging needs of their SMB and mid-market customers. For example, companies with less complex IT requirements might need unified endpoint management, endpoint protection and backup and disaster recovery. Other companies may have more complex IT requirements and look to their MSP to provide help desk capabilities, network operations management, or security operations. Market Opportunity Our cloud-based software solutions enable IT services providers to support their customers growth and digital transformation. These customers rely on our platform to deploy, manage and secure the IT environments of over 500,000 businesses around the world. Technology is becoming increasingly mission critical for companies as a means to improve productivity, work remotely, manage, and monitor their businesses, run operations and engage with customers and other key stakeholders. We believe that IT spending by companies with fewer than 2,500 employees is expected to increase from $1.9 trillion in 2024 to $2.6 trillion by 2028. We believe the global market opportunity for our solutions to be an estimated $44 billion in 2025, growing at approximately 14% to approximately $65 billion by 2028, and that this size and projected growth of the global market for our solutions represents a significant opportunity for our business. Limitations of Existing Approaches Used by Our Customers Our customers, particularly MSPs, are better able to serve their customers and manage disparate, heterogeneous IT environments with technologies that are centralized, effective, easy to deploy, scalable and able to integrate with other solutions. Many existing approaches utilized by MSPs face limitations, such as: 1)Not purpose-built for MSPs. Many tools are not designed to power a managed services model, as they fail to enable MSPs to deliver services in a scalable and efficient manner. These tools can lead to issues around deployment, configurability or scalability. Additionally, some tools may require upfront hardware purchases or lack native or hybrid cloud management and data protection capabilities. These tools can also make it more difficult to manage disparate or heterogeneous environments through a single control panel. 2)Narrow point solutions and tools with limited flexibility and integrations. Many MSP-oriented offerings fail to provide a comprehensive set of solutions on a common platform. Without a unified platform, MSPs are required to utilize disparate solutions and tools which can limit their ability to manage their own and their customers IT environments in a centralized, coordinated manner. Many of these solutions and tools have narrow functionality and are not designed to integrate with other technologies. This can lead to a lack of interoperability that prevents MSPs from having a unified view of their customers IT environments. 3)Lacking enterprise-grade features and functionality. Many approaches targeting the MSP, SMB, and mid-market offer limited functionality or lack the features and capabilities needed by businesses of all sizes to be competitive in the digital world. As companies shift towards always-on, always-available digital environments across more aspects of their businesses, these approaches can lack the depth of functionality required to adequately serve their needs. In addition, providers of these tools may lack the ability to adapt and innovate rapidly to respond to changing technology needs. 4)Not partner success oriented. Providers of alternative approaches can lack MSP-oriented domain expertise and partner success functions designed to help MSPs grow their businesses. This can make it more difficult for MSPs to use and deploy tools to their full potential and effectively serve their customers. 5)Pricing and deployment limitations. Many tools lack flexible pricing models and deployment options that are aligned with the way MSPs sell and deliver their services. This can lead to business challenges and inefficiencies for MSPs, which can give rise to inflexible service offerings to their customers. 6 Table of Contents 6)Manual and inefficient. Alternative approaches can lack automation, requiring MSPs to manually address issues that they or their customers face. This need for manual intervention can drive higher headcount costs and cause slower resolution times. Alternative tools may also lack reporting and analytics that help MSPs proactively identify and remediate issues before they arise. Our Solution We provide cloud-based unified endpoint management, security and data protection as-a-service solutions that are integrated within our technology platform. Our technology platform is purpose-built to give IT services providers visibility and control over distributed and heterogeneous IT environments through a centralized control panel. Built on a multi-tier, multi-tenant architecture, a unified agent management system and microservices, our platform is designed to securely deliver integrated solutions that fit the specific needs of each IT services provider customer. Our modular and highly scalable platform helps our customers deploy, manage and secure IT assets in an efficient and organized manner. Through our platform, we aim to deliver value and flexibility to our customers. We offer our customers multiple deployment options and price the solutions on our platform on a subscription basis. Our open ecosystem framework enables and simplifies integrations with numerous third-party solutions from leading enterprise technology vendors. By working across cloud, on-premises and hybrid cloud infrastructures, our platform enables a delivery model that accommodates the IT environment preferences and needs of our IT services provider customers. Key Strengths of our Platform The key strengths of our platform and related offerings include: 1)Deep unified endpoint management capabilities. Our leading unified endpoint management capabilities provide our customers with visibility and insights into the availability and performance of a wide range of systems and network infrastructure and devices, all through a centralized dashboard. Our out-of-the-box network topology and network path analysis enable IT services providers to visualize and identify issues across the entire landscape of infrastructure and devices within heterogeneous IT environments. Our UEM platform, which we also refer to as our RMM, or remote monitoring and management platform, gathers and correlates real-time network and device issues, data that customers leverage to help maintain uptime and peak performance. Through our role-based access and support, technicians can easily troubleshoot specific IT systems, devices and applications, as well as easily load new service offerings powered by our platform. 2)Layered security approach to cyber-threats and compliance risks. Our customers use our integrated solutions to improve the security framework of IT environments while helping meet regulatory and industry-specific compliance standards. Our security and data protection solutions are designed to defend against cyber-threats targeted at the network, infrastructure, application, and endpoint layers and the sensitive data that resides in and travels through each of these layers. Our security solutions offer both preventative and remediation capabilities while our data protection solutions enable continuous backup and high-speed restoration, jointly driving a robust line of defense for SMBs and mid-market companies. 3)Designed for hybrid IT environments. The solutions on our platform are designed to meet the needs of our IT services provider customers across cloud, on-premises and hybrid-cloud IT infrastructures. Our unified endpoint management capabilities span both on-premises and cloud-native systems and workloads, while our fully cloud-based data protection capabilities similarly enable continuous backup and high-speed data restoration regardless of where the data resides. 4)Out-of-the-box automation for higher service efficacy and capacity. Our platform, which includes professional services automation and easily configurable automation capabilities, enables our customers to more efficiently deliver services to their SMB and mid-market customers, manage their businesses and increase capacity for growth. With over 100 out-of-the-box automated tasks and a no-code drag-and-drop editor to easily build additional automation policies, our customers have eliminated common, repetitive tasks and freed up technicians to take on higher-value activities. In addition, the ability to automate resolutions to customer-specific problems and easily track configuration changes without requiring customized scripts increases the stickiness of our platform. 5)Robust reporting and analytics. Our reporting and analytics dashboard provides our customers with a consolidated view of data and analytic outputs of IT environments and a unified view of key metrics and trends. Our reporting and analytics capabilities are designed to be business-friendly for a wide range of users and can generate proof-of-compliance reports to meet regulatory requirements across many industries. Why We Win Our platform, partner success strategies and business model are rooted in our experience and understanding of the needs of our IT services provider customers and are designed to help our customers succeed and grow. Our customers power their 7 Table of Contents service offerings with our platform, making us an integral part of their ability to land, expand and retain their customers. Some of the key factors that differentiate us from our competitors include: 1)Purpose-built platform designed for IT services provider success. Our platform allows our customers to build and grow their businesses around our customizable solutions. Ongoing expansion of native functionalities and integrations, powerful and easy-to-create automation policies and always-available training and enablement resources are all designed to facilitate our customers success. In addition, our platform serves the needs of customers of all sizes, making it easy for them to standardize and operate on our platform. 2)Comprehensive and extensible platform designed for integrations. Our platform features out-of-the-box integrations with third-party technologies and solutions from leading enterprise technology vendors. Our open ecosystem framework enables us to rapidly develop and deploy extensive integrations through our strategic technology partnerships. 3)Enterprise-grade technology for SMBs and mid-market businesses through our MSP customers. Through our platform and strategic technology partnerships, we make it possible for our MSP customers to deploy, manage and secure enterprise-grade technologies for their customers. Our development and innovation roadmap incorporates real-time feedback from our active user community, which helps shape improvements to existing offerings and the development of new offerings that address the needs of our customers. 4)Best-in-class partner success. We provide various partner success strategies aimed at helping our customers expand their customer bases and service offerings through our platform and to grow and operate their businesses more effectively. Our dedicated partner success teams assist with onboarding, post-sales engineering and partner management. Additionally, through our MSP Institute, MSP customers gain access to business, sales, marketing and technical training from industry experts and leaders. This is supplemented by our Head Nerds program, which delivers expert training and consultation on how our customers can optimize their businesses for their most important growth areas such as security, backup, automation and operations. We also offer community-based resources such as forums, peer councils, expert series, and industry expert blogs. 5)Flexible subscription pricing and billing model. We sell the solutions on our platform on a subscription basis that meets the specific needs of our customers and expands as they add new customers, deliver new services based on our solutions and when the IT services provider customers add devices and services. We offer our customers the flexibility to purchase solutions with pricing based on committed volumes or on a pay-as-you-go model ranging from monthly to multi-year terms, where our partners pay based on the volume of our solutions they and their customers are committed to or consume on a monthly basis. Additionally, we offer flexible deployment models across cloud, on-premises and hybrid cloud infrastructures that accommodate the IT environment preferences and needs of our customers. 6)Efficient deployment and scale. Our platform is designed to be quickly configured and deployed by our IT services provider customers and enable efficient delivery of services to their customers. Our customers are able to easily define business roles and processes and then leverage our automation capabilities to deploy those policies across their customers IT environments to manage and maintain consistent standards of service. The automation in our platform is also designed to help our customers scale their customer base with fewer technical support personnel. Our Differentiated Go-to-Market Approach Our go-to-market approach is grounded in a differentiated, multi-dimensional land and expand model. Our business model and alignment with our customers gives us the leverage and sales reach to efficiently and effectively serve SMBs and mid-market businesses. We grow with our customers as they expand their customer bases, deliver new services powered by our solutions and when their customers add devices and services. Our partner success strategies further enhance our models efficiency by empowering our customers to grow their businesses and expand their customer bases and consumption of solutions on our platform. To add new customers, we employ an efficient low-touch, high-velocity selling from the inside motion. Our sales motion is rooted in selling online or over the phone to customers of all sizes across any location through a prescriptive approach that adheres to standardized pricing and agreements. We power this sales motion with a marketing model that is highly flexible, analytics-driven and designed to efficiently drive digital traffic and high-quality opportunities. We drive website traffic and capture opportunities through events such as roadshows, partner events, and trade shows, as well as through various digital marketing initiatives, including search engine optimization (SEO), targeted email campaigns, localized websites, social media, e-book distribution, video content, blogging and webinars. Our low-friction sales motion and marketing model also allow prospective customers to trial fully functional versions of the solutions on our platform, which is frequently a step to broader adoption. Internationally, we augment our go-to-market approach in certain regions with a targeted and localized distributor model. 8 Table of Contents We believe our differentiated go-to-market approach benefits our business for a number of reasons, including: 1)Sales reach extension. Our customers effectively extend our sales reach into the worldwide SMB and mid-market company markets. When we acquire a new IT services provider customer, we also add its customers and continue to benefit as the IT services provider expands its customer base. 2)Sales expansion through natural adoption. IT services providers expand usage of our offerings over time when they add new customers and when their customers add new devices and services. As digital transformation trends continue to impact SMBs and mid-market businesses, our platform facilitates the delivery of new and enhanced services by our IT services provider customers to their customers. 3)Capital efficient scaling. We gain significant operating leverage through our IT services providers customer acquisition efforts and the support and overhead they provide to service their customers. 4)Loyalty and retention. Our best-in-class partner success strategies drive loyalty and retention by providing our IT services provider customers with resources designed to help them better understand and pursue growth opportunities using our platform. 5)Strong international presence. Our extensive international distributor network and localized go-to-market approach has enabled and enhanced our robust global presence. Growth Strategy We believe there are significant growth opportunities in our market, and we intend to focus our investments to capitalize on these opportunities and accelerate revenue growth. We believe that our growth will come from the following vectors: 1)Expand our IT services providers footprint. Our partner acquisition model is driven by us adding new customers that develop and deliver services powered by our platform. We focus on adding customers that have the opportunity to grow their businesses alongside us and increase consumption of solutions on our platform. 2)Facilitate MSP-enabled growth.When we add an MSP customer, we expand our relationship with the customer through two routes. We grow when our MSP customers expand their SMB and mid-market customer base. We also grow when our MSP customers deliver new or enhanced services to their customers based on our solutions and when their customers add devices and services. As digital transformation initiatives at SMBs and the mid-market are pushing them to modernize their IT systems, we are seeing tailwinds in the adoption and usage of our solutions by SMB and mid-market customers through our MSP customers. We utilize numerous partner success strategies to help our MSP customers expand their customer bases by educating them on how to introduce deeper and broader sets of service offerings. In this manner, our MSP customers serve as an extension of our sales footprint while requiring minimal incremental sales efforts by us. Our ability to expand within our customer base is demonstrated by our dollar-based net revenue retention rate, which was 103%, 110% and 103% for each of the trailing twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. 3)Widen our surface area. We also grow by expanding the aperture of networks, devices, services and users that we manage and secure on our platform. This surface area expansion is driven by internal development, strategic technology partnerships with large enterprise technology vendors and integrations with other MSP technology providers. 4)Drive innovation. We intend to continue introducing new enterprise-grade solutions on our platform. These new solutions may come from internal innovation, strategic technology partnerships or targeted acquisitions. In particular, we aim to further broaden our security service offerings, technical controls, automation and reporting and analytics capabilities. To keep pace with technological developments and ever-changing IT complexity, we also continually invest in our platform and its existing solutions. 5)Broaden our co-managed IT footprint. In addition to providing services for SMBs and the mid-market, some of our IT services provider customers service larger businesses through a co-managed IT model, sharing responsibility for IT management and services with an internal IT team. We believe that increased adoption of co-managed IT models will continue to be a meaningful driver of market expansion. 6)Deliver globally. We are a global software company, generating 51.8%, 51.2% and 51.3% of our total revenue from outside of the United States in the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We intend to target markets around the world where we have an established presence and distribution channels and further expand to new markets through channel and personnel growth and market-specific solutions. 9 Table of Contents Our Platform We deliver a platform of integrated solutions that enables our IT services provider customers, including MSPs, to manage and secure the IT environments and assets for their SMB and mid-market end customers, as well as more efficiently manage their own businesses. Purpose-built to address a wide range of IT services provider needs, our subscription-based platform is scalable, extensible, and easy to deploy. Our platform consists of three core solution categories: unified endpoint management, data protection as-a-service and security. In addition to our core solution categories, we offer business management solutions that help improve the technical and service delivery efficiencies of our customers. Unified endpoint management Our unified endpoint management (UEM") solutions provide our customers with visibility and insights into the availability and performance of their customers networks, infrastructure, devices and applications, all through a centralized dashboard. Our UEM solutions are designed to support the needs of customers of all sizes and accommodate complex and heterogeneous SMB and mid-market customer environments. In addition, our UEM technology serves as the foundation for the managed services model, allowing our customers to remotely monitor and access their customers IT environments. Through our UEM solutions, we can address the unified endpoint management needs of IT services providers of all sizes across cloud, on-premises and hybrid cloud environments. We leverage a wide variety of service checks such as SNMP, WMI, ICMP, UDP/TCP, API and scripts to gather and correlate data that our customers use to maximize uptime and productivity for their customers. Our UEM solutions include a fulsome set of remote monitoring capabilities across devices, endpoints and infrastructures designed to allow our IT services provider customers to: support thousands of device types across major device categories, including Windows, macOS and Linux endpoints as well as network infrastructure components such as switches, routers, firewalls and wireless access points; utilize a robust set of out-of-the-box features including network topology mapping and network path analysis; enable remote access and support for IT systems and devices to quickly identify and resolve issues; automate policies and tasks, power active device discovery and utilize automated alerts and customizable performance checks; enable technical support personnel to perform maintenance and troubleshoot a wide array of issues, whether attended or unattended by end users; manage their business through dashboards and reports that track the activities of their technical support personnel, demonstrate value to their customers and identify opportunities for operational improvement; and monitor, manage, secure, standardize and automate Microsoft 365 users, Azure resources, and Intune devices. Data Protection as a Service Our data protection capabilities are fully cloud-based and include backup and disaster recovery for servers, virtual machines, workstations, files, data, and key cloud-based applications. Our multi-tenant platform and secure remote delivery architecture is designed to provide our customers with the flexibility to choose and deploy the best solution based on their respective risk postures. Backup, Recovery and Disaster Recovery. Our backup, recovery and disaster recovery solutions are designed to help our customers: provide their customers with efficient and granular data protection and recovery across multiple types of data and systems, including servers, virtual machines, workstations, critical databases and business documents; protect and restore critical SaaS application, such as M365; understand the integrity of their protection copies based on mechanisms like automated recovery testing; optimize data transfers to and from the cloud with the option to designate a preferred storage location in one of our available data centers in 18 countries and allow for protection of data across workstations, servers and networks from a single platform; and deliver these services to their customers without the need for them to purchase, maintain, and patch hardware. 10 Table of Contents Security Our security solutions are designed to help our customers secure their own IT environments and data and those of their customers. We provide a layered protection approach that spans network and systems infrastructure, applications, and end user devices through our patch management, endpoint security, managed detection and response, extended detection and response, web protection, e-mail security and archiving and vulnerability assessment solutions. Endpoint Protection. We have two approaches to endpoint security: a traditional antivirus-based approach, which includes full disk encryption, and a next-generation endpoint detection and response offering, which enables attack prevention and simple rollback. Our endpoint detection and response solution helps our customers to prevent, detect and respond to ever-changing cyber-threats, as well as recover quickly when ransomware or other attacks occur. This solution is designed to enable our customers to: protect against the latest threats without waiting for recurring scans or updates to signature definitions; reverse the effects of an attack through remediation and rollback to restore endpoints to their pre-attack state and minimize customer downtime; enhance network visibility, identify endpoints, and reduce and control customer attack surfaces; proactively hunt for threats and offload the operational burden of endpoint management to security specialists; and view summaries or detailed information about threats from the centralized dashboard of our platform. Extended Detection and Response. We offer a powerful cloud-native extended detection and response (XDR) platform that leverages machine learning to identify cyber-threats, automate remediation rules and system updates, and provide continuous compliance reporting. This solution is designed to enable our customers to: consolidate security information and event management (SIEM) and security orchestration, automation and response (SOAR) for threat detection, investigation, and response through centralized XDR; help identify, detect, analyze, and prioritize anomalous behavior in real-time using UEBA data science; and use artificial intelligence to detect known and unknown threatsspecifically when determining an insider threat, account takeover, and privilege abuse or misuse. Managed Detection and Response. We offer around-the-clock threat hunting and remediation of clients systems for cyber-threats, abnormal activities, and dark web monitoring. This solution is designed to enable our customers to: employ a multi-layered detection approach utilizing advanced threat assessment techniques and a 24x7 Security Operations Center to detect and resolve emerging attacks across diverse client infrastructures; demonstrate full visibility into actions taken to confirm and respond to security events, including detection and investigations custom reports and situational reporting on current cybersecurity posture; and receive comprehensive compliance insights across hybrid infrastructures with visibility into at-risk systems and compliance readiness. Patch Management. We offer a flexible cloud-based patch management solution, which is designed to enable our customers to: easily update systems, applications and devices to help ensure connected endpoints are in compliance with up-to-date security protocols; and provide flexible options for automated, scheduled or manual deployment of patches based on a number of criteria, including severity of vulnerability and customer service level. Web Protection and Content Filtering. Our web protection and content filtering solution allows our customers to set content-filtering policies, website access controls and time and content-based browsing policies to help keep workforces secure and productive. This solution is designed to allow our customers to: block device users from visiting suspected and confirmed unsafe sites; establish allow and block lists to override category-based filters; and filter internet activity by day, category and URL to reveal trends, spikes and irregularities. 11 Table of Contents Mail Protection and Archiving. Our e-mail security solutions leverage external threat feeds and internal data based on the millions of emails we process daily in order to help our solution identify attacks and secure our IT services provider customers and their customers email systems. Our solutions are designed to secure emails by providing customers with: a web-based dashboard to enable customers to continue sending and receiving email if their primary email service has an outage; an email archive to store and retrieve email; and additional protection against spam, malware, ransomware and other email-borne threats based on data collected from our customers and their customers around the world. Business Management. Our business management solutions include professional services automation, automation and scripting management, password management policies, and reporting and analytics. Our MSP customers use our business management solutions to manage their own IT and business environments and to service their customers. Our solutions integrate with third-party professional services automation tools, IT services management products and other key technologies utilized by MSPs. Professional Services Automation and Ticketing. Our professional services automation and ticketing system can be used by our MSP customers to manage their businesses in the following ways: organize their workforces by routing tickets and scheduling technical support personnel; share knowledge throughout their organizations by archiving customer contact and password information, process and task knowledge and ticket history; increase visibility and transparency with customer, ticket and technical support dashboards; and streamline the billing process with flexible billing based on their customers needs. Password and Documentation Management. Our password and documentation management offering provides a simple, yet secure, solution tailored to the operations of our MSP customers. This solution helps our MSP customers: access their customer environments with granular role-based permissions and a full audit trail leveraging our centralized and secure password repository; standardize service delivery and expedite issues by making essential documentation easily accessible through a fully integrated tool; and conduct mobile password resets, which enables end-users to reset their own passwords at any time, without MSP support. Desktop Management. Our desktop management solution enables MSPs to remotely: work on issues and communicate with their customers while a customers device is in use; and troubleshoot and proactively address customer endpoint and network issues without disruption to the customers operations. Technology Key features of our platform include: Extensibility. Our flexible platform allows users to easily extend the built-in functionality with deep integrations to create custom monitoring capabilities in conjunction with a broad range of third-party tools. We built our platform to be extensible through an open ecosystem framework to enable rapid integration with a broad universe of third-party technologies. We leverage this framework across our Technology Alliance Program and integrated solution partnerships described below, allowing us to create integrations that deliver embedded user interface experiences. Our open ecosystem framework enhances our ability to deliver a single point of management across the myriad of solutions, tools and other technologies that MSPs use to manage their customers environments. This enables our MSP customers to have deep visibility into their SMB and mid-market customers environments and access to enterprise-grade technology while also allowing us to quickly add integrations to efficiently deliver new monitoring capabilities to our MSP customers. Multi-tier, multi-tenancy. Our multi-tier, multi-tenant platform allows our MSP customers to efficiently manage multiple customers and sites across cloud, on-premises and hybrid cloud environments from a single pane of glass. Our multi-tenancy extends beyond our MSP customers and is able to power seamless integration with key distributors. Our multi-tier, multi-tenant 12 Table of Contents architecture also enables our global distributors to effectively deliver our solutions to a broad set of customers from a single instance of our platform. Automation. Our platform features over 100 out-of-the-box policies to automate common tasks and for resolution of frequently occurring issues, enabling our MSP customers to focus on higher value activities. Our no code visual workflow builder and over 600 design elements make it possible for technical and non-technical personnel at our customers to create and customize powerful automated processes for both proactive and reactive workflows. Our customers can easily manage automation policies and track change configurations via detailed reporting within our platform. Unified agent management. MSPs utilize software agents to collect data and facilitate connections to their customers endpoints. It can be time-consuming and burdensome to deploy and update these agents, particularly in a distributed or mobile workforce. We have a unified agent management system that helps our MSP customers deploy agent capabilities and update new features across multiple customer environments. Our approach to agent management is designed to make deploying new software and services fast and easy for our MSP customers. Security. We have invested heavily to build solutions in a secure manner. Our Secure Software Development Lifecycle guides the manner in which we develop our solutions and reflects our efforts to continuously improve our processes. We regularly conduct penetration tests on our solutions with third parties and work with customers who conduct them as part of their evaluation cycles. As a part of our rigorous security procedures, we continuously evaluate our solutions with static analysis tools and develop approaches to address material identified vulnerability issues. All of this is augmented by a formal Incident Response procedure designed to appropriately triage, escalate and remediate or mitigate incoming incidents. Certain of our solutions or data centers meet one or more of the following security compliance standards, which vary by product or location: HIPAA, ISO/IEC 27001:2013 or ISO/IEC 27001:2022, ISO 9001, NIST 800-53, PCI DSS, SOC 1 Type II and SOC 2 Type II. Common user interface and user experience model. Our platform has been purpose-built to provide a consistent, intuitive and easy to use experience for our customers. We are constantly improving the ease with which our customers can engage with our platform to allow them to efficiently deploy our solutions and accomplish their business goals. Global footprint. We operate a global, multi-cloud architecture in order to deliver the best customer experience across both speed and customer choice regarding data sovereignty. We operate our workloads out of a mix of private data centers, AWS and Azure. This global reach enables us to deliver extensive choice to partners who have various data storage requirements. Strategic Technology Partnerships We designed our platform and solutions to be highly extensible which has allowed us to develop a vast technology partner ecosystem. We have three ways to deliver solutions from our strategic technology partners to our customers: Technology Alliance Program. Through our Technology Alliance Program, we enable third-party technology or software vendors to integrate with our platform to streamline workflows and share data. When a vendor joins the program, the relationship is formalized through a marketing agreement that sets expectations for joint marketing efforts such as webinars for our customers. Once accepted to the program, these strategic partners have access to integration resources such as API documentation, as well as support and guidance from our product management team. Integrated solution partnerships. These strategic partnerships allow us to embed best-of-breed third-party offerings directly into our platform and enable our IT services provider customers to sell these solutions to their customers. Through our integrated solution partnerships, we manage joint roadmap integration, full go-to-market launch, and commercialization, thereby providing a greater breadth of offerings to address the various needs of our customers. Large enterprise technology vendors. We have partnerships with large enterprise technology vendors, which we believe validates our strategic differentiation in the IT services provider market. Through these strategic partnerships and our multi-tier, multi-tenant architecture, we are able to offer our customers a unified platform that includes offerings from these vendors such as integration with Microsoft Intune, deep support for Mac, and robust monitoring for cloud services such as Meraki. These strategic partnerships expand the surface area of the devices that our customers can manage and secure. Our Customers Our customers purchase our solutions on a subscription basis to power managed services sold to their customers or for their own internal business management. Our customers range in scale from IT firms with one or two technicians to large IT services providers with thousands of employees. They also range in geographical distribution, including some focused on local or regional customers and others with multi-national presences. Some of our customers deploy multiple solutions on our platform across their entire customer base 13 Table of Contents while others use our platform to service only a portion of their customers. The end customers serviced by our IT services providers customers generally have fewer than 2,500 employees and span a wide range of industry verticals, including financial services, healthcare, professional services, education and manufacturing. As of December 31, 2024, we had 2,349 customers with ARR over $50,000 on our platform, up from 2,196 as of December 31, 2023, representing an increase of 7.0%. Over the same period, these customers grew from approximately 56% of our total ARR as of December 31, 2023 to approximately 57% of our total ARR as of December 31, 2024. We calculate ARR by annualizing the recurring revenue and related usage revenue inclusive of discounts, excluding the impacts of credits and reserves, recognized during the last day of the reporting period from both long-term and month-to-month subscriptions. We use ARR, and in particular ARR attributable to customers with over $50,000 of ARR, to enhance the understanding of our business performance and the growth of our relationships with our customers. Marketing, Sales, Partner Success and Support Our marketing, sales and partner success organizations serve as the engine that powers our multi-dimensional land and expand go-to-market strategy. Through a combination of leading targeted marketing content, events, free trials and business development efforts, we cultivate a high volume of qualified opportunities that are passed on to dedicated insides sales teams to convert into partners. Additionally, our inside sales team leverages our marketing content to generate their own qualified opportunities to increase product penetration into our existing base. We segment our sales and marketing strategies by the needs of prospective customers and existing customers based on the stage of their respective business lifecycle. After we add an MSP customer, our partner success program is designed to help them better manage their own businesses, offer services enabled by our platform and expand their customer bases and usage of our solutions. Marketing Our marketing efforts are grounded in deep industry expertise and are designed to generate high quality opportunities for our sales organization. We deploy a highly flexible and analytics-driven direct marketing approach through broad use of digital marketing techniques including search engine optimization, paid search, social media marketing, events, targeted email campaigns, localized websites, free resources and content marketing, display advertising, affinity groups and webinars. We target our marketing efforts through a segment specific approach. For potential customers that have less complex IT needs, we typically deploy a low-cost, low-touch strategy. For potential customers that have more complex IT needs, we leverage a cost-efficient, account-based marketing model to target and educate them. Internationally, we partner in specific regions with our global network of distributors to drive a localized marketing strategy. In addition, we engage existing and prospective customers through ongoing partner success and community-based initiatives. As part of our partner success strategies, our marketing efforts are designed to educate MSPs about the features of both the service offerings that they currently use and service offerings that they do not use, as well as how our solutions can help them grow their businesses. Leveraging our deep industry expertise, we provide a range of community-based resources for our customers, including peer-to-peer webinars, online and in-person events, and content resources that are designed to help them better realize the value of our platform. Sales We deploy a highly effective and disciplined approach to sales that has foundations in the selling from the inside culture. This approach is rooted in having our sales organization selling online or over the phone, using a structured approach to managing opportunities, and adhering to standardized pricing and contract terms. Our sales team handles customer accounts of all sizes and across geographies through our selling from the inside approach. Our sales organization is organized by our key solution categories as well as by geographic region. Our dedicated sales teams receive high-quality opportunities from our marketing and business development motions to engage with prospects, supporting our multi-dimensional customer acquisition motion. This is further powered by our low-friction, free-trial approach that allows prospective MSP customers to trial a fully functional version of our platform. When these prospective customers realize the value of our platform, they can then purchase solutions on our platform at the size and level of functionality appropriate for their and their customers IT environments. Furthermore, our combined efforts across marketing, partner success and sales motions drive high-quality opportunities from our existing customer base that advances our expand go-to-market strategy. This approach allows us to cross-sell and expand product penetration within our existing MSP customer base. We adhere to a disciplined, data-driven approach to converting opportunities quickly and efficiently based on our understanding of the prospect or existing partners specific product demands and the inflection points in the selling process. 14 Table of Contents We also sell our software through distributors and resellers to supplement our direct sales force, as well as to initiate and fulfill sales orders from MSPs and SMBs that prefer to make purchases through a specific distributor or reseller. Our localized channel strategy in international markets allows us to offer in-market solutions, sales, marketing and support in the local language. Our base of channel distributors proactively create demand for our solutions and bring new opportunities and customers to us. We are also able to flexibly deploy a hybrid approach in which our sales specialists work alongside our distributors and resellers when targeting and landing higher value transactions within these local markets. Partner Success We provide numerous partner success strategies that help MSPs and SMBs leverage our platform to expand their customer bases and service offerings and become more efficient business operators. Our partner success teams are categorized into onboarding, post-sales engineering, and partner success management. These cross-functional teams collectively educate our MSP and SMB customers on how to properly configure and use our platform and solutions for their individualized use cases and how to build successful businesses on our platform. Through our customer success center, N-ableMe, our customers have access to a range of educational resources such as the MSP Institute, Head Nerds, and community-based knowledge. Our MSP Institute provides training, tips, and playbooks across business, sales, marketing, and technical tracks from experts and industry leaders. Our Head Nerds program delivers training, resources, and consultative sessions to help our customers understand and optimize their businesses for the most important growth areas including security, backup, automation, and operations. We utilize our deep partner community as a valuable source of information exchange. Through moderated forums, peer councils, expert series and industry expert blogs, our customers learn best practices about how to create and sell services, protect their customers and stay ahead in the rapidly evolving managed services space. Support Our experienced and in-region support teams provide our customers with 24x7x365 technical support for our platform and solutions. Research and development Our research and development organization is primarily responsible for the architecture, design, development, testing and deployment of new solutions and improvements to existing solutions, with a focus on ensuring that our platform is fully integrated and extensible. We have designed our software development process to be responsive to the needs of our customers, cost-efficient, and agile. We work closely with our customers throughout the development process to build solutions that address the problems our customers face. We regularly have a subset of our customers participate in processes to validate that our solutions and features are what they are looking for to improve their operations and address their most pressing demands. We have built a development organization that allows us to add new features and enhance our platform quickly and efficiently. Our global development model allows us to source from a large talent pool by participating in multiple labor markets. We utilize small scrum teams that follow standard practices to build and test their code and foster continuous improvement. We share our development values across our offices and aim to assign meaningful design and development work to our international locations. Competition We compete in a large and fragmented industry with several vendors that provide technologies used to service SMBs and mid-market companies. We compete with vendors in the following categories: MSP pure-play: Vendors focused on the MSP market which provide broad, integrated solutions that include monitoring and management, data protection, business management tools and security offerings. Examples of such vendors are ConnectWise, Kaseya, and NinjaOne. Niche or domain-specific: Small to large enterprise vendors that provide solutions focused on a particular service that may be sold by IT services providers or purchased directly by an SMB or mid-market company, such as network monitoring, systems management, email security, remote access and support and data protection. Examples of such vendors are Acronis, ArcticWolf, ManageEngine, Proofpoint, Sophos and Veeam. We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include: breadth and extensibility of features and functionality; focus on and alignment with IT services providers, SMB, and mid-market success; 15 Table of Contents scalability, performance and reliability of our platform and solutions; ability to solve the technical and business problems of customers of all sizes and complexities; flexibility of deployment models, whether public or private cloud, on-premises or in a hybrid environment; continued innovation to keep pace with evolving technology requirements and the changing needs of the SMB and mid-market; ease of use and deployment; brand awareness and reputation among IT services providers, MSPs, their technicians and other IT professionals; total cost of ownership and alignment of cost with business objectives and needs of IT services providers, MSPs, SMBs, and mid-market businesses; and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts. We believe that we compete favorably on these factors. Our People We are a global software company. As of December 31, 2024, we had 1,773 employees fully dedicated to our business, of which 447 were employed in the United States and 1,326 were employed outside of the United States. Of these employees, 1,765 were employed full time. Of our 1,773 employees as of December 31, 2024, 131 employees joined N-able in connection with the November 20, 2024 acquisition of Adlumin, Inc. (Adlumin), all of whom are employed full time in the United States. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Fourth Quarter Financial Highlights and Note 3. Acquisitions in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding the acquisition of Adlumin. We strive to keep our people at the center of everything we do and foster a positive relationship with our employees, based on our values and culture of belonging which we continue to nurture and develop. We are not party to any collective bargaining agreements. Our success is the result of our talented, experienced and high performing employees across our organization, including functions such as research and development, sales and marketing, partner success and general and administrative. Our Values Our values serve as our guiding principles to help drive our decisions and behaviors with each other and our partners. We hire based on our values, recognize each other based on our values, and strive to uphold our values in all of our interactions - every day. N-rich Lives: We use our talents to find meaning and purpose in all that we do. N-spire Others: We unlock potential and help bring out the best in others. N-joy the Journey: We are passionate about what we do and have fun along the way. Employee Engagement We survey employees a minimum of two times a year to ensure that all employees voices are heard, and so we can better understand the key areas where we can improve the employee experience. These key areas include N-ables values; our employees impression of the executive team; employees experience in their individual roles, of their direct teams and with their direct managers; and employees sense of belonging at work. Survey results are reviewed by our senior leadership team, reported to the whole company and used to inform action plans at all levels of the organization. As a part of our employee engagement strategy, we focus on the following key pillars that have been important to offering an extraordinary employee experience: Diversity, Equality and Belonging (DEB), N-ablite Giving, Wellness, and Fun. We want our employees to feel supported to do their best work and N-joy the Journey along the way. Diversity, Equality and Belonging As a global company, we have the distinct advantage of employing talented individuals across many different ethnicities, genders, races, religions, sexual orientations and generations, all supported through a focus on innovation and inclusion. Communities of Interest (COIs) are a core part of our DEB strategy and are employee-driven, company-sponsored interest groups that are open to all N-able employees globally, intended to foster inclusivity and belonging. We currently have the following global COIs: PRISM, supporting our LGBTQIA+ community; WONDER, supporting women in our workplace; and Shades, supporting our employees of color. Our President and CEO signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Pledge (this was the second year of our pledge), reinforcing the Companys support and commitment towards building a culture of 16 Table of Contents belonging at N-able. We also launched an internal site with resources and information to allow employees to celebrate what makes us unique and invite others to join us on our journey. Our aim is to create a positive and uplifting work environment that leads to more trust, engagement, and excellence. We believe that our culture of belonging enables us to deliver strong financial performance and build lasting relationships with our communities around the globe. Giving: Community Involvement We encourage and support our employees to give to the communities in which they live and work. Employees receive two fully paid VoluNteer Days annually and we encourage them to leverage this time to support causes that are meaningful to them. During our annual Season of Giving, employees join company coordinated volunteer events to make an even bigger impact. In 2024, employees across the globe used their VoluNteer Days to donate more than 3,200 hours to non-profit organizations in their local communities. In addition, employees have a fundraising forum to provide visibility to giving opportunities they are a part of and for which they want monetary donations. Wellness Supporting our employees abilities to prioritize and maintain their overall health and well-being is an important focus area to drive engagement and create an exceptional experience. We provide resources ranging from comprehensive benefits to specialized wellness programming to a global Employee Assistance Program (EAP) with local language support at no cost to employees and their family members. Our internal site provides access to resources and new ways to stay healthy - whether its physical, mental, financial or social. We also offer wellness-focused programs virtually and at our hubs, such as Global Wellness Fairs at our Collaboration Hubs, employee-led meditation sessions, healthy meal education, and financial wellness workshops. Learning and Development We are committed to providing our employees with a holistic growth and learning journey to help them make the most of their careers. Our learning and development program includes uniquely designed group training for new hires during their onboarding process, as well as various development programs and courses to support career growth and help employees achieve their full potential. Whether it is through taking courses through N-ablite Learning, supporting internal mobility, or raising awareness of the importance of continuous learning during our special Adult Learners Week program, we aim to provide the guidance and support N-ablites need to grow their career. Notable Recognition N-ables achievements as an employer of choice earned us several notable awards throughout 2024. We achieved Great Place to Work certification, a globally recognized authority on company culture. Additionally, notable awards include three Stevie Awards, including for Chief People Officer, Kathleen Pai, Woman of the Year Business Services, Achievement in Diversity & Inclusion, and for Achievement in Employee Engagement. N-able was also recognized by Comparably among the companies with the Best HR Team, Best Company Outlook (Two-time winner), Best Company Leadership, Best Company Career Growth (Three-time winner), Best Company Work-Life Balance (Two-time winner), Best Company Perks & Benefits (Two-time winner), Best Company Happiness (Three-time winner), Best Company Compensation (Four-time winner), Best CEO (Three-time winner), and Best Company Culture (Two-time winner). We were also recognized as Top 50 Human Resources Team 2024 OnCon Awards, and HR Team of the Year (EMEA) by HRO Today Association. In addition, we received the Advancing Diversity in Technology Leadership Award by CompTIA North America, and Great Tech Place to Work by NC Tech. We believe the combination of our relationship with our employees, the strength of our software platform and our alignment with our customers and business model differentiates us in the market as an employer of choice. Our ability to achieve our goals has always been, and continues to be, a result of the strong values and tremendous passion of our people. We continue to invest in attracting top talent, training and development initiatives and motivating, engaging and retaining high potential employees. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade dress and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection. As of December 31, 2024, we owned nine issued U.S. patents and one issued foreign patent, with expiration dates ranging from February 22, 2033 to July 7, 2041. Nable may consider filing patent applications in the future, and we cannot guarantee that patents will be issued with respect to the current patent applications in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek or at all. Our patents and any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented and may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. 17 Table of Contents We endeavor to enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of, and safeguard our ownership of, our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive with ours or that infringe our intellectual property rights, and policing unauthorized use of our technology and intellectual property rights can be difficult. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on any legal actions against these infringers being successful, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our solutions are available or where we have operations. In addition, the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Governmental Regulations Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, including those related to financial and other disclosures, accounting standards, corporate governance, intellectual property, tax, trade, including import, export and customs, antitrust, environment, health and safety, employment, immigration and travel, cybersecurity, privacy, data protection and localization and anti-corruption. These laws and regulations may differ among jurisdictions, and compliance with them may have a materially adverse impact on our business and results of operations. For more information about potential impacts of government regulations, see the section titled Risk FactorsRisks Related to Governmental Regulation. Additional Information Our website address is www.n-able.com. Our website and the contents therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Through a link on the Investor Relations section of our website, we make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 18 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Summary of Risk Factors Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary, and other risks that we face, can be found below under the heading Risk Factors and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in the future because of a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict or could cause our operating results or the guidance we provide to fall below expectations. If we are unable to sell subscriptions to IT services provider customers, to sell additional solutions to our existing customers or to increase the usage of our solutions by our existing customers, our revenue growth and operating results could be adversely effected. Our business depends on customers renewing their subscription agreements. If our subscription-based business model fails to yield the benefits that we expect, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. We operate in highly competitive markets, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers at our historic rates. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to the rapidly changing needs of IT services providers, MSPs, and their SMB mid-market customers. If we fail to integrate our solutions with a variety of operating systems, software applications, platforms and hardware that are developed by others or ourselves, our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete and our results of operations would be harmed. Acquisitions present many risks that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve or sustain the same level of cash flows in the future. Because our long-term success depends on our ability to operate our business internationally and increase sales of our solutions to our customers located outside of the United States, our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We resell third-party software and integrate third-party software into our solutions that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our solutions and lead to a loss of customers or harm to our reputation and our operating results. Material defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our solutions, the failure of our solutions to block malware or prevent a security breach, misuse of our solutions, or risks of product liability claims could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and meet our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The success of our business depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our solutions use third-party software that may be difficult to replace or cause errors or failures of our solutions that could lead to a loss of customers or harm to our reputation and our operating results. Risks Related to Cybersecurity and the Cyber Incident Cyberattacks, including the Cyber Incident, and other security incidents have resulted, and in the future may result, in compromises or breaches of our, our customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers systems, the insertion of malicious code, malware, ransomware or other vulnerabilities into our, our customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers systems, the exploitation of vulnerabilities in our, our customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers 19 Table of Contents environments, the theft or misappropriation of our, our customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers proprietary and confidential information, and interference with our, our customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers operations, exposure to legal and other liabilities, higher customer and employee attrition and the loss of key personnel, negative impacts to our sales, renewals and upgrades and reputational harm and other serious negative consequences, any or all of which could materially harm our business. The Cyber Incident has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, customer and employee relations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Related to Government Regulation We are subject to various global data privacy and security regulations, which could result in additional costs and liabilities to us. We are subject to governmental export controls and economic sanctions laws that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability. Risks Related to Accounting and Taxation We are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange and interest rates. Failure to maintain proper and effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to potential changes in tax laws or regulations Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock and Our Organizational Structure The Sponsors have a controlling influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. The Sponsors and their affiliated funds may pursue corporate opportunities independent of us that could present conflicts with our and our stockholders interests. Our charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate in the future because of a number of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict or could cause our operating results or the guidance we provide to fall below expectations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future. As a result, you should not rely on the results of any one quarter as an indication of future performance and period-to-period comparisons of our revenue and operating results may not be meaningful. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below, many of which are outside of our control: our ability to maintain and increase sales to existing customers and to attract new customers, including selling additional subscriptions to our existing customers to deliver services to their SMB and mid-market customers or for their internal use; changes in SMB and mid-market demand for services provided by our IT services provider customers, including those related to the number of customers serviced by our IT services provider customers and the reduced amount of services provided by our IT services provider customers to their SMB and mid-market customers; declines in subscription renewals and changes in net customer retention; lack of visibility into our financial position and results of operations in connection with our consumption-based revenue; our ability to capture a significant volume of qualified sales opportunities; our ability to convert qualified sales opportunities into new business sales at acceptable conversion rates; the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures related to the expansion of our operations and infrastructure and customer acquisition; our failure to achieve the growth rate that was anticipated by us in setting our operating and capital expense budgets; potential foreign exchange gains and losses related to expenses and sales denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of an associated entity; 20 Table of Contents fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may negatively impact our reported results of operations; the timing of revenue and expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies, solutions or businesses, or strategic partnerships and their integration; potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and amortization associated with acquired businesses; the timing and success of new offerings, enhancements or functionalities introduced by us or our competitors, including potential deferral of orders from our customers in anticipation of new offerings or enhancements announced by us or our competitors; any other change in the competitive landscape of our industry, including consolidation among our competitors, customers, SMBs, or mid-market companies, and strategic partnerships entered into by us and our competitors; our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; changes in our subscription pricing or those of our competitors; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; general economic, industry and market conditions that impact expenditures for IT management technology for SMBs and mid-market companies in the United States and other countries where we sell our solutions; significant security breaches, such as the Cyber Incident, technical difficulties or interruptions to our solutions or infrastructure; changes in tax rates, laws or regulations in jurisdictions in which we operate; and the impact of a recession, pandemic, or any other adverse global economic or political conditions on our business. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results might lead analysts to change their models for valuing our common stock. As a result, our stock price could decline rapidly, and we could face costly securities class action suits or other unanticipated issues. Because we recognize revenue from our longer-term subscriptions and term licenses over the subscription or license term, downturns or upturns in new sales and renewals may not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may be difficult to discern. Certain of our customers purchase licenses for one year or longer for our products, and we expect the amount of customers with such arrangements to increase. In such cases, we generally recognize revenue as we satisfy our performance obligations over the term of their subscription. Revenue from such contracts reported in a given quarter will often be derived from the recognition of revenue relating to contracts entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed customer contracts in any single quarter may have a smaller impact on our revenue for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenue is recognized over the life of such agreements with our customer. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could continue to result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. We report certain market opportunity estimates, forecasts of market growth, and other metrics, which could prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may negatively affect our reputation and our business. Certain estimates and information concerning our industry and market are based on third-party sources, and our estimates of our market opportunity are based on such information. Although we believe the information from such third-party sources is reliable, we have not independently verified the accuracy or completeness of the data contained in such third-party sources or the methodologies for collecting such data, and such information may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth forecasted that we have reported, we may not successfully access these markets and our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Additionally, certain of our operational metrics, such as annual recurring revenue (ARR), are calculated using internal systems and tools that are not validated by an independent third-party, and may differ from estimates or similar metrics published or used by third-parties due to differences in methodologies and assumptions. Our internal systems, tools, and processes have a number of limitations, and our data collection methodologies may have errors or could change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose. If our operating metrics are not accurate, or if investors do not perceive them to be accurate, investors may lose confidence in our operating metrics and business, we could be subject to legal claims, and our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations could 21 Table of Contents be adversely affected. In addition, limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data or with respect to the data that we measure may affect our understanding of certain details of our business, which could affect our long-term strategies. If we are unable to sell subscriptions to new customers, to sell additional solutions to our existing customers or to increase the usage of our solutions by our existing customers, our revenue growth and operating results may be adversely effected. We provide our solutions primarily under monthly or annual subscriptions to our customers. A subscription generally entitles a customer to, among other things, support, as well as security updates, fixes, functionality enhancements and upgrades to the technologies, each, if and when available. To increase our revenue, we must regularly add new customers and expand our relationships with our existing customers. We also rely, to a significant degree, on our customers establishing and maintaining relationships with their SMB and mid-market customers, for our IT services provider customers to add new SMB and mid-market customers, for those customers to add new devices and to drive adoption of new services that we offer. When our customers move from month-to-month contracts to longer-term contracts, or renew their longer-term contracts, they may reevaluate their needs and decrease their usage. In addition, economic weakness and uncertainty, tightened credit markets and constrained IT spending from time to time contribute to slowdowns in the technology industry, as well as in the industries of SMBs and the geographic regions in which we, our customers and their SMB and mid-market customers operate; this may result in reduced demand and increased price competition for our offerings. Uncertainty about future economic conditions may, among other things, negatively impact the current and prospective SMB and mid-market customers of our IT services provider customers and result in delays or reductions in technology purchases. Even if we capture a significant volume of opportunities from our digital marketing activities, we must be able to convert those opportunities into sales of our subscriptions in order to achieve revenue growth. We primarily rely on our direct sales force to sell our solutions to new and existing customers and convert qualified opportunities into sales using our low-touch, high-velocity sales model. Accordingly, our ability to achieve significant growth in revenue in the future will depend on our ability to recruit, train and retain sufficient numbers of sales personnel, and on the productivity of those personnel. Our recent and planned personnel additions may not become as productive as we would like or in a timely manner, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do or plan to do business. If we do not effectively hire, integrate, train, manage, and retain additional sales personnel, and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, we may be unable to increase our customer base and increase sales to our existing customers. Our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market adoption of our platform will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to expand our sales and marketing operations. We have and plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs and to expand our sales and marketing capabilities to target additional potential customers, but there is no guarantee that we will be successful in attracting and maintaining additional customers. If we are unable to find efficient ways to deploy our sales and marketing investments or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Furthermore, we plan to continue expanding our sales force and there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our success in hiring, integrating, training, managing, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth, particularly in international markets. New hires require significant training and may take extended time before they are productive. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. Moreover, our international expansion may be slow or unsuccessful if we are unable to retain qualified personnel with international experience, language skills and cultural competencies in the geographic markets in which we target. If we are unable to hire, integrate, train, manage, and retain a sufficient number of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel we hire are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. Our business depends on customers renewing their subscription agreements. If our subscription-based business model fails to yield the benefits that we expect, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. The significant majority of our revenue consists of subscription revenue. Our subscriptions generally have recurring monthly, annual, or multi-year subscription periods. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscription agreements after the expiration of their subscription. It is difficult to accurately predict long-term customer retention. Our customers subscription net revenue retention rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our offerings, the prices of our solutions, the prices of tools and services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers spending levels. If our 22 Table of Contents customers do not renew their subscription arrangements or if they renew them on less favorable terms, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. We may not have visibility into a portion of our revenue that is consumption-based, which may result in our financial position and results of operations falling below internal or external expectations, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock. A portion of our revenue is recognized based on consumption as customers use certain aspects of our platform, whether such usage is beyond their paid subscriptions or on an individual basis. This usage is particularly applicable to our unified endpoint management (UEM) solutions and our Cove backup, recovery and disaster recovery solutions. Unlike our subscription revenue, which is recognized ratably over the term of the subscription, we generally recognize consumption revenue as the services are delivered. Because our customers have flexibility in the timing of their consumption, we do not have the visibility into the timing of revenue recognition that we have with our subscription revenue. There is a risk that our customers will not use portions of our platform that provide consumption-based revenue at all or more slowly than we expect, and our actual results may differ from our forecasts. Further, investors and securities analysts may not understand how the consumption-based portion of our business differs from the subscription-based portion of our business, and our business model may be compared to purely subscription-based business models or purely consumption-based business models. If our quarterly or annual results of operations fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class actions. We operate in highly competitive markets, which could make it difficult for us to acquire and retain customers at our historic rates. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic industry driven by the technology needs of IT services providers, MSPs, SMBs and mid-market companies. Our industry is large and fragmented with several vendors that provide technologies used by MSPs and other IT services providers to service SMBs and mid-market companies. Competition in our market is based primarily on solution capabilities, including: breadth and extensibility of features and functionality; focus on and alignment on customers success; scalability, performance and reliability of our platform and solutions; ability to solve the technical and business problems of customers of all sizes and complexities; flexibility of deployment models, whether public or private cloud, on-premises or in a hybrid environment; continued innovation to keep pace with evolving technology requirements and the changing needs of the SMB and mid-market companies; ease of use and deployment; brand awareness and reputation among IT services providers, their technicians and other IT professionals; total cost of ownership and alignment of cost with business objectives and needs of IT services providers, MSPs, SMBs and mid-market companies; and effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts. Our customers have limited barriers to switching to a competitors solution from our platform if we fail to provide solutions and services that meet their needs. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater brand awareness and longer operating history, broader distribution and established relationships with IT services providers, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, greater customer support resources, greater resources to make strategic acquisitions or enter into strategic partnerships, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. Given their larger size, greater resources and existing customer relationships, our competitors may be able to compete and respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. We face competition from IT vendors focused on the MSP market which provide broad, integrated solutions that include monitoring and management, data protection, business management tools and security offerings. Examples of such vendors are Kaseya, ConnectWise and NinjaOne. In addition, we compete with small to large enterprise vendors that provide solutions focused on a particular service that may be sold by IT services providers and MSPs, such as managed detection and response, extended detection and response, network monitoring, systems management, email security, remote support and data protection. Examples of such vendors are Acronis, ArcticWolf, eSentire, ManageEngine, Proofpoint, Sophos and Veeam. New start-up companies that innovate and large competitors, or potential competitors, that make significant investments in research and development may invent similar or superior solutions and technologies that compete with our subscriptions. In addition, some of our larger competitors, or potential competitors, have substantially broader and more diverse solutions and services offerings. This may make them less susceptible to downturns in a particular market and allow them to leverage their relationships based on other solutions or incorporate functionality into existing solutions to grow their business in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our solutions and subscriptions, including through selling at zero or negative margins, offering concessions, solutions bundling or closed technology platforms. In addition, customers that use legacy tools and services of our competitors may believe that these tools and services are sufficient to meet their IT needs or that our platform only serves the needs of a portion of the SMB and mid-market IT market. Accordingly, these organizations may continue allocating their IT budgets for such legacy tools and services and may not adopt our offerings. Further, many organizations have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to design and operate their networks and have established deep 23 Table of Contents relationships with other competitive providers. As a result, these organizations may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than to add or switch to a new supplier using our solutions and services, regardless of solution performance, features or greater services offerings. As the IT services providers industry evolves, the competitive pressure for us to innovate encompasses a wider range of services, including new offerings that require different expertise than our current offerings. Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into strategic relationships with one another to offer more competitive, bundled or integrated solution offerings and to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies enter into partnerships or are acquired. Companies and alliances resulting from these possible consolidations and partnerships may create more compelling solution offerings and be able to offer more attractive pricing, making it more difficult for us to compete effectively. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in price reductions, decreases in net customer retention rates, reduced revenue and gross margins and loss of market share. Any failure to meet and address these factors could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our success depends on our ability to adapt to the rapidly changing needs of IT services providers and their SMB and mid-market customers. The SMB and mid-market IT companies IT market has grown quickly and is expected to continue to evolve rapidly. Moreover, many of our IT services providers customers and their customers operate in markets characterized by rapidly changing technologies and business plans, which require them to adopt increasingly complex networks, incorporating a variety of hardware, software applications, operating systems and networking protocols. Our long-term growth depends on our ability to continually enhance and improve our existing offerings and develop or acquire new solutions that address the common problems encountered by technology professionals on a day-to-day basis in an evolving IT management market, including adapting to rapidly changing technologies and user preferences, adapting our offerings to evolving industry standards, predicting user preferences and industry changes in order to continue to provide value to our customers and to improve the performance and reliability of our offerings. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on a number of factors, including its relevance to customers, changes to the form factors in technologies powering the businesses of SMBs, timely completion and introduction and market acceptance. New solutions and enhancements that we develop or acquire may not sufficiently address the evolving needs of our existing and potential customers, may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate the amount of revenue necessary to realize returns on our investments in developing or acquiring such solutions or enhancements. If our new offerings are not successful for any reason, certain offerings in our portfolio may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive, and our business will be harmed. If we fail to integrate our solutions with a variety of operating systems, software applications, platforms and hardware that are developed by others or ourselves, our solutions may become less competitive or obsolete and our results of operations would be harmed. In order to meet the needs of our customers, our solutions must integrate with a variety of network, hardware and software platforms, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our solutions to adapt to changes in hardware, software, networking, browser and database technologies. We believe a significant component of our value proposition to customers is the ability to optimize and configure our solutions to integrate with our systems and those of third parties. If we are not able to integrate our solutions in a meaningful and efficient manner, whether through our inability to continue to adapt or because third parties restrict our ability to integrate with their networks, hardware or software, demand for our solutions could decrease, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, we have a large number of solutions, and maintaining and integrating them effectively requires extensive resources. Our continuing efforts to make our solutions more interoperative may not be successful. Failure of our solutions to operate effectively with future infrastructure platforms and technologies could reduce the demand for our solutions, resulting in customer dissatisfaction and harm to our business. If we are unable to respond to changes in a cost-effective manner, our solutions may become less marketable, less competitive or obsolete and our business and results of operations may be harmed. We have experienced substantial growth in recent years, which may not be indicative of future growth, and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of customer satisfaction or adequately address competitive challenges, and our financial performance may be adversely affected. Our business has rapidly grown, which has resulted in large increases in our number of employees, expansion of our infrastructure, new internal systems and other significant changes and additional complexities. We generated revenue of $466.1 million, $421.9 million and $371.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. While we intend to further expand our overall business, customer base and number of employees, our historical growth rate is not 24 Table of Contents necessarily indicative of the growth that we may achieve in the future. The growth in our business and our management of a growing workforce and customer base that is geographically dispersed across the U.S. and internationally will require substantial management effort, infrastructure and operational capabilities. To support our growth, we must effectively transition and continue to improve our management resources and our operational and financial controls and systems, and these improvements may increase our expenses more than anticipated and result in a more complex business. We will also have to transition and anticipate the necessary expansion of our relationship management, implementation, customer support and other personnel to support our growth and achieve high levels of customer service and satisfaction. Our success will depend on our ability to complete this transition, plan for and manage this growth effectively. If we fail to complete this transition, anticipate and manage our growth, or are unable to provide high levels of customer service, our reputation, as well as our business, results of operations and financial condition, could be harmed. Acquisitions present many risks that could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In order to expand our business and functionality of our platform, we have previously made several acquisitions and may continue making similar acquisitions and possibly larger acquisitions as part of our growth strategy, including the acquisition of Adlumin, Inc. in November 2024. The success of our future growth strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those acquisitions. Acquisitions are inherently risky and any acquisitions we complete may not be successful. Our past acquisitions and any mergers and acquisitions that we may undertake in the future involve numerous risks, including, but not limited to, the following: difficulties in integrating and managing the operations, personnel, systems, technologies and solutions of the companies we acquire; diversion of our managements attention from normal daily operations of our business; our inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of the businesses we acquire; uncertainty of entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; our dependence on unfamiliar affiliates, resellers, distributors and partners of the companies we acquire; our inability to increase revenue from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including our failure to drive demand in our existing partner base for acquired solutions and our failure to obtain sales from customers of the acquired businesses; increased costs related to acquired operations and continuing support and development of acquired solutions; liabilities or adverse operating issues, or both, including potential product errors or defects or security issues or vulnerabilities, of the businesses we acquire that we fail to discover or mitigate through due diligence or the extent of which we underestimate prior to the acquisition; potential goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges and amortization associated with acquired businesses; adverse tax consequences associated with acquisitions; changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition; potential negative perceptions of our acquisitions by customers, financial markets or investors; failure to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, or otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition; potential increases in our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; our inability to apply and maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies to acquired businesses; and potential loss of key employees of the companies we acquire. Additionally, acquisitions or asset purchases made entirely or partially for cash may reduce our cash reserves or require us to incur additional debt under our credit facility or otherwise. We may seek to obtain additional cash to fund an acquisition by selling equity or debt securities. We may be unable to secure the equity or debt funding necessary to finance future acquisitions on terms that are acceptable to us. If we finance acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders will experience ownership dilution. 25 Table of Contents The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or substantially concurrent acquisitions. We may expand our business in part through future acquisitions, but we may not be able to identify or complete suitable acquisitions, which could harm our financial performance. We have previously made several acquisitions and may continue making similar acquisitions and possibly larger acquisitions as part of our growth strategy. However, we may be unable to implement this growth strategy if we cannot identify suitable acquisition candidates, reach agreement with acquisition targets on acceptable terms or arrange required financing for acquisitions on acceptable terms. In addition, the time and effort involved in attempting to identify acquisition candidates and consummate acquisitions may divert the attention and efforts of members of our management from the operations of our company, which could also harm our business and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve or sustain the same level of cash flows in the future. Our operating expenses have increased over the last several years, and we expect they may continue to increase as we hire additional personnel, expand our operations and infrastructure, both domestically and internationally, pursue acquisitions and continue to develop our platform's functionalities. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in our operating expenses, we will not be able to achieve or maintain our historical levels of profitability in future periods. While historically our revenue has grown, in future periods, our revenue growth could slow or our revenue could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our solutions, increasing competition, a failure to gain or retain customers, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, our technology or services becoming obsolete due to technical advancements in the SMB and mid-market IT market or our failure, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. As a result, our past financial performance should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Any failure by us to achieve or sustain cash flows on a consistent basis could cause us to halt our expansion, not pursue strategic business combinations, default on payments due on existing contracts, fail to continue developing our platform, solutions and services or experience other negative changes in our business. Our operating income could fluctuate as we make future expenditures to expand our operations in order to support growth in our business, or if we fail to see the expected benefits of prior expenditures. We have made significant investments in our operations to support growth, such as hiring substantial numbers of new personnel, investing in new facilities, acquiring other companies or their assets and establishing and broadening our international operations in order to expand our business. We have made substantial investments in recent years to increase our sales and marketing operations in international regions and expect to continue to invest to grow our international sales and global brand awareness. We also expect to continue to invest to grow our research and development organization, particularly internationally, such as with our new presence in India. We have made multiple acquisitions in recent years and expect these acquisitions will continue to increase our operating expenses in future periods. These investments may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the amount of the investments. We may also continue to pursue acquisitions in order to expand our presence in current markets or new markets, which may increase our operating costs more than our revenue. As a result of any of these factors, our operating income could fluctuate and may decline as a percentage of revenue relative to our prior annual periods. Because our long-term success depends on our ability to operate our business internationally and increase sales of our solutions to our customers located outside of the United States, our business is susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We have international operations in Australia, Austria, Belarus, Canada, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania and the United Kingdom. Revenue from customers outside of the United States represented 51.8% of our total revenue for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024, and as of December 31, 2024, approximately 75% of our employees were located outside of the United States. The continued international expansion of our operations requires significant management attention and financial resources and results in increased administrative and compliance costs. Our limited experience in operating our business in certain regions outside the United States increases the risk that our expansion efforts into those regions may not be successful. In particular, our business model may not be successful in particular countries or regions outside the United States for reasons that we currently are unable to anticipate. We are subject to risks associated with international sales and operations including, but not limited to: fluctuations in currency exchange rates in the markets where we do business, including the recently strengthened U.S. dollar, and as well as controls, regulations, and orders that might restrict our ability to repatriate cash; volatility, uncertainties, and recessionary pressures in the global economy or in the economies of the countries in which we operate; 26 Table of Contents the complexity of, or changes in, foreign regulatory requirements, including more stringent regulations relating to privacy and data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal data, particularly in Europe; localization by our channel partners, including translation of our materials; difficulties in managing the staffing of international operations, including compliance with local labor and employment laws and regulations; difficulties hiring local staff, differing employer/employee relationships, and the potential need for country-specific benefits, programs, and systems; potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems, overlapping tax regimes, restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and changes in tax rates; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; longer sales cycles; social, economic and political instability; epidemics and pandemics, terrorist attacks, wars, geopolitical conflicts, disputes and security concerns in general; reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; the risk of increased exposure to potential cyber attacks, theft or compromise of our systems, security, data, proprietary or confidential information or intellectual property as a result of our international operations, whether by state-sponsored malfeasance or other foreign entities or individuals; laws and policies of the U.S. and other jurisdictions affecting international trade (including import and export control laws, tariffs and trade barriers), such as tariff schemes recently imposed or proposed by the U.S.; the risk of U.S. regulation of foreign operations; and other factors beyond our control such as natural disasters. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to establish, acquire or integrate operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. If we are unable to effectively manage our expansion into additional geographic markets, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In particular, we operate much of our research and development activities internationally and outsource a portion of the coding and testing of our solutions and solutions enhancements to contract development vendors. We believe that performing research and development in our international facilities and supplementing these activities with our contract development vendors enhances the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of our solution development. For example, although our presence in Belarus has been substantially reduced since 2022, we have research and development facilities located in Belarus, which has experienced numerous public protest activities and civil unrest since the presidential election in early August 2020, with active government and police-force intervention. We also engage third party contractors that have a limited number of employees that reside in the Ukraine. In addition, we generated a de minimis amount of revenue from customers located in Ukraine during the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, and Russia and Ukraine during the year ended December 31, 2022. The extent and duration of the instability in the region, and any related risk to our operations, remains uncertain, and may be further exacerbated by the ongoing presence of Russian forces in Belarus and the participation of Belarus in the Russia-Ukraine conflict. To date, intermittent communications and mobile internet outages have occasionally occurred in Belarus, and the United States, the European Union and various other nations have imposed economic and trade sanctions and export control restrictions against multiple Belarusian officials and entities. The ongoing impact of these measures, as well as any further retaliatory actions, is uncertain and may pose security risks to our people, our facilities, our technology systems and our operations, as well as to the local infrastructure, such as utilities and network services, upon which our local teams rely and adversely affect our ability to continue to do business in the region. While we have risk mitigation efforts in place, the realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our product development, operations, business and/or financial results and may require us to shift our research and development activities to other jurisdictions, which may result in delays in our development cycle and the incurrence of additional costs. The disruption in the region also could adversely affect our suppliers, partners and customers, which could result in negative impacts to our business and results of operations. Whether in these countries or in others in which we operate, civil unrest, political instability or uncertainty, military activities, or broad-based sanctions, should they continue for the long term or escalate, could expose us to the risks noted above, as well as numerous 27 Table of Contents other risks, and require us to re-balance our geographic concentrations, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our operations, business and financial condition. If one or more of these risks occurs, it could require us to dedicate significant resources to remedy, and if we are unsuccessful in finding a solution, our financial results could suffer. We have faced, and may continue to face, exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We have transacted in foreign currencies and expect to transact in foreign currencies in the future. In addition, we maintain assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional operating currencies of our global entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will affect our revenue and operating results due to transactional and translational remeasurement that is reflected in our earnings. As a result of such foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, which have been prevalent over recent periods, it could be more difficult to detect underlying trends in our business and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that fluctuations in currency exchange rates cause our results of operations to differ from our expectations or the expectations of our investors, the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We resell third-party software and integrate third-party software into our solutions that may be difficult to replace or that could cause errors or failures of our solutions and lead to a loss of customers or harm to our reputation and our operating results. In order to provide our IT services provider customers with additional functionality on our platform, we often partner with best-of-breed technology developers through license arrangements to use their software in our offerings. We also resell certain third-party products as part of our full product offering. In the future, this software may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of the software could result in decreased sales or decreased functionality of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us or, if available from another provider, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. In addition, any errors or defects in or failures of the third-party software could result in errors or defects in our solutions, cause our solutions to fail or increase our exposure to cyberattacks, any or all of which could harm our business and be costly to correct. Many of these providers attempt to impose limitations on their liability for such errors, defects or failures, and if enforceable, we may have additional liability to our customers or third-party providers that could harm our reputation and increase our operating costs. If we are required to replace such third-party software with new third-party software, such change may require significant work and require substantial investment of our time and resources. If we are unable to maintain licenses to software necessary to operate our business, or if third-party software that we use contains errors or defects, our costs may increase, or the services we provide may be harmed, which would adversely affect our business. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our internal infrastructure and its reliance on third-party technologies may adversely affect our ability to manage our business and meet reporting obligations. Currently, we use NetSuite to manage our order management and financial processes, salesforce.com to track our sales and marketing efforts and other third-party vendors to manage online marketing and web services. We also use third-party vendors to manage our equity compensation plans and certain aspects of our financial reporting processes. We believe the availability of these services is essential to the management of our high-volume, transaction-oriented business model. As we expand our operations, we expect to utilize additional systems and service providers that may also be essential to managing our business. Although the systems and services that we require are typically available from a number of providers, it is time-consuming and costly to qualify and implement these relationships. Therefore, if one or more of our providers suffer an interruption in their business, or experience delays, disruptions or quality-control problems in their operations, or we have to change or add additional systems and services, our ability to manage our business and produce timely and accurate financial statements would suffer. Interruptions or performance problems associated with third-party cloud-based systems that we depend on for development or distribution of our solutions may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We currently host certain of our solutions, and expect to increasingly host our solutions, on cloud infrastructure hyperscaler providers, such as AWS and Azure. In these cases, our solutions reside on hardware operated by these providers. Our operations depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted by a hyperscaler by maintaining its configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and which third-party internet service providers transmit. Although we have disaster recovery plans, including the use of multiple hyperscaler locations, any incident affecting a hyperscalers infrastructure that may be caused by fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, or other natural disasters, actual or threatened public health emergencies, cyber-attacks, terrorist or other attacks, and other similar events beyond our control could negatively affect our platform and our ability to deliver our solutions to our customers. Any prolonged hyperscaler service disruption affecting our SaaS platform would negatively impact our ability to 28 Table of Contents serve our customers and could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the hyperscaler services we use. Hyperscalers have the right to terminate our agreements with them upon material uncured breach following prior written notice. If any of our hyperscaler service agreements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service, we would experience interruptions in access to our platform as well as significant delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services and/or re-architecting our solutions for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure, which would adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our solutions, including disruptions at any third-party data centers upon which we rely, may impair our ability to support our IT services provider customers. Our continued operations depend substantially on the ability of our existing and potential customers to access our websites, software or cloud-based solutions within an acceptable amount of time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these website performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our website performance, especially during peak usage times and as our user traffic increases. If our websites are unavailable or if our customers are unable to access our software or cloud-based solutions within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business would be negatively affected. Additionally, our data centers and networks and third-party data centers and networks may experience technical failures and downtime, may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or may fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base. We provide certain of our solutions through third-party data center hosting facilities located in the United States and other countries. While we control and have access to our servers and all of the components of our network that are located in such third-party data centers, we do not control the operation of these facilities. Following expiration of the current agreement terms, the owners of the data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or if one of our data center operators is acquired, we may be required to transfer our servers and other infrastructure to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruptions in connection with doing so. Material defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our solutions, the failure of our solutions to block malware or prevent a security breach, misuse of our solutions, or risks of product liability claims could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our solutions. Our solutions, including those we resell, are multi-faceted and may be deployed with material defects, software bugs or errors that are not detected until after their commercial release and deployment to our customers. From time to time, certain of our customers have reported defects in our solutions related to performance, scalability, and compatibility. Our solutions also provide our customers with the ability to customize a multitude of settings, and it is possible that a customer could misconfigure our solutions or otherwise fail to configure our products in an optimal manner. Such defects and misconfigurations of our solutions could cause our platform to operate at suboptimal efficacy, cause it to fail to secure customers computing environments and detect and block threats, or temporarily interrupt the functionality of our customers endpoints. We also make frequent updates to our solutions, which may fail, resulting in temporary vulnerability that increases the likelihood of a material defect. In addition, because the techniques used by computer hackers to access or sabotage target computing environments change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, there is a risk that an advanced attack could emerge that our solutions are unable to detect or prevent. Furthermore, as a well-known provider of solutions for IT services providers, including cloud-based technology, who in turn service a large number of SMBs, we and our customers could be targeted by attacks specifically designed to disrupt our business and harm our reputation or the business and reputation of our customers and their SMB and mid-market customers. In addition, defects or errors in our solutions could result in a failure to effectively update customers cloud-based products. Our data centers and networks may experience technical failures and downtime, may fail to distribute appropriate updates, or may fail to meet the increased requirements of a growing customer base, any of which could temporarily or permanently expose our customers computing environments, leaving their computing environments unprotected against cyber threats. Any of these situations could result in negative publicity to us, damage our reputation and 29 Table of Contents increase expenses and customer relations issues, and expose us to investigations, liabilities and other costs and negative consequences, all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Advances in computer capabilities, discoveries of new weaknesses and other developments with software generally used by the IT services provider community may increase the risk we will suffer a security breach. Furthermore, our platform may fail to detect or prevent malware, ransomware, viruses, worms or similar threats for any number of reasons, including our failure to enhance and expand our solutions to reflect industry trends, new technologies and new operating environments, the complexity of the environment of our customers and the sophistication of malware, viruses and other threats. Our solutions may fail to detect or prevent threats in any particular test for a number of reasons. We or our service providers may also suffer security breaches or unauthorized access to personal information, financial account information, and other confidential information due to customer error, rogue customer employee activity, unauthorized access by third parties acting with malicious intent or who commit an inadvertent mistake or social engineering. If we experience, or our service providers experience, any breaches of security measures or sabotage or otherwise suffer unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, personal information, financial account information or other confidential information, we might be required to expend significant capital and resources to address these problems. We may not be able to remedy any problems caused by hackers or other similar actors in a timely manner, or at all. When faced with defects or errors, we will need to provide high-quality support to our customers during remediation efforts. If our customers are dissatisfied with our support or we otherwise fail to handle complaints effectively, our brand and reputation may suffer. To the extent potential customers, industry analysts or testing firms believe that the failure to detect or prevent any particular threat is a flaw or indicates that our solutions not provide significant value, our reputation and business would be harmed. Any real or perceived defects, errors or vulnerabilities in our solutions could result in: lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our solutions; a reduction in subscription or maintenance renewals; diversion of development resources; increased likelihood of a cyberattack; legal claims; and injury to our reputation and our brand. Any inability to maintain a high-quality customer support organization could lead to a lack of customer satisfaction, which could hurt our customer relationships and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We support our customers by offering partner success strategies designed to help them better manage their own businesses, deliver service offerings powered by our platform and grow their customer bases. If we do not effectively and successfully execute our partner success strategies, our ability to sell additional solutions to existing customers would be adversely affected and our reputation with potential customers could be damaged. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on our product and business reputation and on positive recommendations, referrals, and peer promotions from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality partner support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain or grow our brands, our financial condition and operating results might suffer. We believe that developing, maintaining and growing awareness and integrity of our brand in a cost-effective manner are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future offerings and are important elements in attracting new customers. In addition, during 2021, we changed our brand from SolarWinds MSP to N-able, which may have resulted in the loss of customer recognition and may have adversely affected our business and profitability. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as we enter new markets and as competition in our existing markets further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brands will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability providing reliable and useful solutions at competitive prices. We intend to increase our expenditures on brand promotion. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brands. We also rely on our customer base and their SMB and mid-market customers in a variety of ways, including giving us feedback on our offerings and to provide user-based support to our other customers through our Head Nerds program. If poor advice or misinformation regarding our solutions is spread among users of our Head Nerds program, it could adversely affect our reputation, our financial results and our ability to promote and maintain our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands successfully, fail to maintain loyalty among our customers and their SMB and mid-market customers, 30 Table of Contents or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to introduce, promote and maintain our brands, we may be unable to attract new customers, retain our existing customers and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Additionally, if our customers do not use or ineffectively use our solutions to serve their end customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business may be harmed. In November 2024, we acquired Adlumin, Inc. Prior to the acquisition we marketed Adlumins managed detection and response (MDR) solution as N-able MDR. As we integrate Adlumin into our business, we may utilize the Adlumin brand name for our XDR or MDR solutions, sell such solutions under the N-able brand or some combination of the two. The transition to or from the Adlumin brand name may cause confusion or lack of brand recognition for these solutions, which could negatively impact our business and profitability. If we fail to integrate the Adlumin brand successfully, fail to maintain loyalty among legacy Adlumin customers, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to introduce, promote and maintain the Adlumin brand, we may be unable to attract new customers for our XDR or MDR solutions or retain existing customers of these solutions, and our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. If we are unable to capture significant volumes of high quality sales opportunities from our digital marketing initiatives, it could adversely affect our revenue growth and operating results. Our digital marketing program is designed to efficiently and cost-effectively drive a high volume of website traffic and deliver high quality opportunities, which are often trials of our solutions, to our sales teams. We drive website traffic and capture opportunities through events such as roadshows, partner events, and trade shows, as well as through various digital marketing initiatives, including SEO, targeted email campaigns, localized websites, social media, e-book distribution, video content, blogging and webinars. If we fail to drive a sufficient amount of website traffic or capture a sufficient volume of high quality sales opportunities from these activities, our revenue may not grow as expected or could decrease. In addition, if either our customer success efforts or the efforts of our distributors fail to generate sufficient sales leads, our revenue may not grow as expected. If these activities are unsuccessful, we may be required to increase our sales and marketing expenses, which may not be offset by additional revenue and could adversely affect our operating results. Our digital marketing initiatives may be unsuccessful in driving high volumes of website traffic and generating trials of our solutions, resulting in fewer high quality sales opportunities, for a number of reasons. For example, technology professionals often find our solutions when they are online searching for a solution to address a specific need. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings, and we rely on both. The display, including rankings, of unpaid search results can be affected by a number of factors, many of which are not in our direct control, and may change frequently. Our SEO techniques have been developed to work with existing search algorithms used by the major search engines. However, major search engines frequently modify their search algorithms and such modifications could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of technology professionals who visit our websites. In addition, websites must comply with search engine guidelines and policies that are complex and may change at any time. If we fail to follow such guidelines and policies properly, search engines may rank our content lower in search results or could remove our content altogether from their indexes. If our websites are displayed less prominently, or fail to appear in search result listings in response to search inquiries regarding observability, IT monitoring and management, backup, data recovery, or security problems through Internet search engines for any reason, our website traffic could significantly decline, requiring us to incur increased marketing expenses to replace this traffic. Any failure to replace this traffic could reduce our revenue. In addition, the success of our digital marketing initiatives depends in part on our ability to collect customer data and communicate with existing and potential customers online and through phone calls. As part of the solution evaluation trial process and during our sales process, most of our customers agree to receive emails and other communications from us. We also use tracking technologies, including cookies and related technologies, to help us track the activities of the visitors to our websites. However, as discussed in greater detail below, we are subject to a wide variety of data privacy and security laws and regulations in the United States and internationally that affect our ability to collect and use customer data and communicate with customers through email and phone calls. Many jurisdictions have proposed or adopted laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email or spam or regulate the use of cookies, including the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation. These laws and regulations may impose significant monetary penalties for violations and complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email or other data-driven marketing practices. As a result, we may be required to modify or discontinue our existing marketing practices, which could increase our marketing costs. We may need to reduce or change our pricing model to remain competitive. We generally price our subscriptions on a per-device or per-user basis with pricing based on volume tiers. We may increasingly rely on a bundled pricing model. We have changed our pricing model from time to time, and may have to do so in the future. We believe that our price increase in 2023 may have adversely affected our business, and future increases may also adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. At the same time, as new or existing competitors introduce tools that compete with ours or reduce their prices, we may be unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers. We also must determine the appropriate price to enable us to compete effectively internationally. As a result, we 31 Table of Contents may be required or choose to reduce our prices or otherwise further change our pricing model, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have benefited from growth in the market for SMB and mid-market IT spending, and lack of continued growth or contraction in this market could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. As SMBs and mid-market companies invest in technology and their needs for continuous availability, performance and security grow, they have been increasingly relying on MSPs to manage these aspects of their businesses. In addition to MSPs, other IT services providers, such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, IT consultants and data center operators, have also adopted a managed services model. While we have benefited from the growth in SMB and mid-market spending on IT and the rise of the managed IT services model, the market is dynamic and evolving. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in both spending by SMBs and demand from SMBs for MSPs and IT services providers to provide oversight, management and security of their IT systems and devices. If this market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The ability to recruit, retain and develop key employees and management personnel is critical to our success and growth, and our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our business requires certain expertise and intellectual capital, particularly within our management team. We rely on our management team in the areas of operations, security, marketing, sales, research and development, support and general and administrative functions. The loss of one or more of our members of the management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. For us to compete successfully and grow, we must retain, recruit and develop key personnel who can provide the needed expertise for our industry and solutions. As we move into new geographic areas, we will need to attract, recruit and retain qualified personnel in those locations. In addition, although acquisitions are part of our growth strategy, we could lose key personnel of the acquired businesses. The market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in retaining or recruiting key personnel or may fail to effectively replace current key personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. We believe that replacing our key personnel with qualified successors is particularly challenging as we feel that our evolving business model and approach to marketing and selling our solutions are unique. Any successors that we hire from outside of the company would likely be unfamiliar with our business model and may therefore require significant time to understand and appreciate the important aspects of our business or fail to do so altogether, or we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, including stock-based compensation expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. New regulations and volatility or lack of performance in our stock price could also affect the value of our equity awards, which could affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Further, if efforts around diversity, equality and belonging are perceived as insufficient or overdone, we may not be able to attract and retain talent, we may be subject to investigations, litigation and other proceedings and our brand and reputation and stock price may be harmed. We have made changes, and may make additional changes in the future, to our senior management team and other key personnel. Leadership transitions can be inherently difficult to manage, and an inadequate transition may cause disruption to our business. In addition, we cannot provide assurances that key personnel, including our executive officers, will continue to be employed by us or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have an adverse effect on our business. Our results of operations can be adversely affected by labor shortages, turnover and labor cost increases. Labor is a primary component of operating our business. A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available to us or increase labor costs from time to time, including high employment levels, federal unemployment subsidies, and other government regulations. Although we have not experienced any material disruptions due to labor shortages to date, we have observed an overall tightening and increasingly competitive labor market. A sustained labor shortage or increased turnover rates within our employee base, whether as a result of general macroeconomic or other factors, could lead to increased costs, such as increased wage rates to attract and retain employees, and could negatively affect our ability to efficiently operate our business. If we are unable to hire and retain employees capable of performing at a high level, or if mitigation measures we may take to respond to a decrease in labor availability, such as third-party outsourcing, have unintended negative effects, our business could be adversely affected. An overall labor shortage, lack of skilled labor, increased turnover or labor inflation could have a material adverse impact on our operations, results of operations, liquidity or cash flows. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, our business may be harmed. We believe that our corporate culture has been, and will continue to be, a critical component to our success and that our culture creates an environment that drives our employees and perpetuates our overall business strategy. We have invested 32 Table of Contents substantial time and resources in building our team and we expect to continue to hire aggressively as we expand, including with respect to our international operations. As we grow and mature as a public company and grow further internationally, we may find it difficult to maintain the parts of our corporate culture that have led to our success. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to recruit and retain personnel and effectively focus on and pursue our business strategy. Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for information technology and on the economic health of our current and prospective customers. Any significant weakening of the economy in the United States, Europe, Asia, Australia and of the global economy, more limited availability of credit, a reduction in business confidence and activity, decreased government spending, economic uncertainty and other difficulties may affect one or more of the sectors or countries in which we sell our solutions. Global economic and political uncertainty may cause some of our IT services provider customers or potential customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers, to curtail spending generally or IT management spending specifically, and may ultimately result in new regulatory and cost challenges to our international operations. In addition, a strong dollar could reduce demand for our solutions in countries with relatively weaker currencies. Inflation recently increased at the highest rate in four decades in the United States amid a slowing economy and there are numerous indicators suggesting a potential economic recession in the United States and other regions of the world. Any such conditions could result in reductions in subscriptions, reduction of consumption of our services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial position. Climate change may have a long-term negative impact on our business. Risks related to climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on our business and those of our customers, their end users and our suppliers in the longer term. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, floods, fire, power shortages, pandemics, terrorism, political unrest, cyberattacks, infrastructure disruptions, geopolitical instability, war, the effects of climate change and other events beyond our control. Climate-related events, including the increasing frequency of extreme weather events and their impact on regional short-term systemic failures in the U.S. and elsewhere, have the potential to disrupt our business, our third-party vendors, and/or the business of our customers and their customers, and may cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and additional costs to maintain and resume operations. If new laws are enacted, or current laws are modified in countries in which we or our suppliers operate, we could face increased costs to comply with these laws. These costs may be incurred across various levels of our supply chain to comply with new environmental regulations, taxes and penalties, which could cause us to incur increased costs to satisfy service obligations to customers. In addition, we may be subject to increased regulations, reporting requirements and standards, or expectations regarding the environmental impacts of our business, which may result in increased compliance costs, and any untimely or inaccurate disclosure could adversely affect our reputation, business or financial performance. Exposure related to any future litigation could adversely affect our results of operations, profitability and cash flows. From time to time, we have been and may be involved in various legal proceedings and claims arising in our ordinary course of business. At this time, neither we nor any of our subsidiaries is a party to, and none of our respective property is the subject of, any material legal proceeding. However, the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. Future litigation may result in a diversion of managements attention and resources, significant costs, including monetary damages and legal fees, and injunctive relief, and may contribute to current and future stock price volatility. No assurance can be made that future litigation will not result in material financial exposure or reputational harm, which could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, profitability or cash flows. In particular, the software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and from time to time may receive, letters claiming that our solutions infringe or may infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. As we face increasing competition and as our brand awareness increases, the possibility of additional intellectual property rights claims against us grows. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents and other intellectual property rights, and these patents or other intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, might deter future customers from acquiring our solutions or could expose us to litigation with respect to these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in that litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are named as a party. Any of these results would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. As a result of any successful intellectual 33 Table of Contents property rights claim against us or our customers, we might have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights, which could prevent us from offering our solutions to our customers. We could also have to seek a license for the technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms, might significantly increase our cost of revenue or might require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. The technology also might not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we could also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology or cease to offer a particular solutions, which could require significant effort and expense and/or hurt our revenue and financial results of operations. Our exposure to risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of our past and any future acquisitions as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to acquired technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Third parties may make infringement and similar or related claims after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from information we may provide regarding our financial outlook. From time to time, we provide information regarding our financial outlook in our quarterly earnings releases, quarterly earnings conference calls, or otherwise, that represents our managements estimates or expectations at that time. Information we provide regarding our financial outlook is based on projections prepared by our management that are dependent upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, and may be based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, which may change. We typically state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed, but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. We provide such information as a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by analysts, if any. Information regarding our financial outlook is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying such information furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, information that we provide regarding our financial outlook is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable at that time. Actual results may vary from our financial outlook, and the variations may be material and adverse. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to consider these factors, not to rely exclusively upon information we provide regarding our financial outlook in making an investment decision regarding our common stock, and to take such information into consideration only in conjunction with other information included in our filings filed with or furnished to the SEC, including the Risk Factors sections in such filings. Any failure to implement our operating strategy successfully or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could result in our actual operating results being different from information we provide regarding our financial outlook, and those differences might be adverse and material. A pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, may materially affect how we and our customers are operating our businesses and our financial results. We are subject to risks related to public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic and policies and regulations implemented by governments in response to the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact, both directly and indirectly, on global businesses and commerce and indirect effects such as worker shortages and supply chain constraints. Future global health concerns could also result in social, economic, and labor instability in the countries in which we or the third parties with whom we engage operate. The impact to our business from any future pandemics or health epidemics depends on multiple factors that cannot be accurately predicted, such as their duration and scope, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions, the disruption caused by such actions, and the efficacy and rates of vaccines. Future pandemics or health epidemics could have severe impacts on our business and our customers and prospective customers businesses. For instance, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced a deceleration in our year-over-year subscription revenue growth rate in the second quarter of 2020 as compared to our growth rates in prior periods. We attributed this deceleration primarily to increased churn and downgrades from existing customers and slower customer adds. Future pandemics or health epidemics may also adversely affect our productivity, employee morale, future sales, operating results, and overall financial performance. Pandemics, health epidemics, or outbreaks of infectious diseases may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and meet our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. 34 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2024, our total indebtedness outstanding under our credit agreement, net of debt issuance costs, was $333.1 million and we had $60 million of additional unused borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our debt, we may need to refinance our debt, dispose of assets, or issue equity to obtain necessary funds; we do not know whether we will be able to take any of such actions on a timely basis or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. Our substantial indebtedness incurred under the credit agreement, combined with our other financial obligations and contractual commitments could have important consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development and other purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have relatively less indebtedness; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; restricting us from making investments or strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; requiring us under certain circumstances to repatriate earnings from our international operations in order to make payments on our indebtedness, which could subject us to local country income and withholding taxes and/or state income taxes that are not currently accrued in our financial statements; requiring us to liquidate short-term or long-term investments in order to make payments on our indebtedness, which could generate losses; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under the credit agreement are subject to variable rates of interest; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds, or to dispose of assets to raise funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, product development and other corporate purposes. Despite our current indebtedness level, we and our restricted subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. Although the terms of the credit agreement governing our outstanding indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, such restrictions are subject to a number of important exceptions and indebtedness incurred in compliance with such restrictions could be substantial. If we and our restricted subsidiaries incur significant additional indebtedness, the related risks that we face could increase. If new debt is added to our or our subsidiaries current debt levels, the related risks that we now face would increase, and we may not be able to meet all our debt obligations. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources. The credit agreement governing our indebtedness contains restrictions and limitations that may restrict our business and financing activities and expose us to risks that could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. The credit agreement governing our credit facility contains various covenants that are operative so long as our credit facility remains outstanding. The covenants, among other things, limit our and certain of our subsidiaries abilities to: incur additional indebtedness; create or incur liens; engage in mergers, consolidations, amalgamations, liquidations, dissolutions or dispositions; make investments, acquisitions, loans (including guarantees), advances or capital contributions; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; conduct, transact or otherwise engage in certain business or operations; create negative pledges or restrictions on the payment of dividends or payment of other amounts owed from subsidiaries; make prepayments or repurchases of debt that is subordinated with respect to right of payment; modify certain documents governing debt that is subordinated with respect to right of payment; pay dividends and distributions on, or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock; and 35 Table of Contents engage in certain transactions with affiliates. Our credit agreement also contains a financial covenant which requires that, at the end of each fiscal quarter, for so long as the aggregate principal amount of borrowings under our revolving credit facility exceeds 35% of the aggregate commitments under the revolving credit facility, our first lien net leverage ratio cannot exceed 7.50 to 1.00. A breach of this financial covenant will not result in a default or event of default under the term loan facility under our credit agreement unless and until the lenders under our revolving credit facility have terminated the commitments under the revolving credit facility and declared the borrowings under the revolving credit facility due and payable. Our credit agreement also contains numerous affirmative covenants that will remain in effect as long as our credit facility remains outstanding. We are also required to make mandatory prepayments of the obligations under our credit facility in certain circumstances, including upon certain asset sales or receipt of certain insurance proceeds or condemnation awards, upon certain issuances of debt, and, annually, with a portion of our excess cash flow. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the credit agreement governing our credit facility may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. The restrictions in the credit agreement governing our credit facility may prevent us from taking actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our business and may make it difficult for us to execute our business strategy successfully or effectively compete with companies that are not similarly restricted. Even if our credit agreement is terminated, any additional debt that we incur in the future could subject us to similar or additional covenants. The credit agreement includes customary events of default, including, among others, failure to pay principal, interest or other amounts; material inaccuracy of representations and warranties; violation of covenants; specified cross-default and cross-acceleration to other material indebtedness; certain bankruptcy and insolvency events; certain ERISA events; certain undischarged judgments; material invalidity of guarantees or grant of security interest; and change of control. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the termination of our credit agreement or an acceleration of the obligations under the credit agreement. Any such default would permit the applicable lenders to declare all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, such a default or acceleration may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. If we are unable to repay our indebtedness, the lenders under our credit facility could proceed against the collateral securing the indebtedness. In any such case, we may be unable to borrow under our credit facility and may not be able to repay the amounts due under our credit facility. This could have serious consequences to our financial condition and results of operations and could cause us to become bankrupt or insolvent. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The success of our business depends on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop or license so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology and our business might be adversely affected. However, protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights might entail significant expenses. Any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged by others, weakened or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, trade dress, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection. As of December 31, 2024, we had ten issued patents. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that these patents, or our existing patents, will adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. Our patents and any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, and may not provide sufficiently broad protection or may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Any patents that are issued may subsequently be invalidated or otherwise limited, allowing other companies to develop offerings that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Patent applications in the United States are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our patented software or technology. 36 Table of Contents We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with which we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours and may infringe our intellectual property. The enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our legal actions against these infringers being successful, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Further, any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could be costly and time-consuming. Our exposure to risks related to the protection of intellectual property may be increased in the context of acquired technologies as we have a lower level of visibility into the development process and the actions taken to establish and protect proprietary rights in the acquired technology. In connection with past acquisitions, we have found that some associated intellectual property rights, such as domain names and trademarks in certain jurisdictions, are owned by resellers, distributors or other third parties. In the past, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining assignments of these associated intellectual property rights from third parties. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our solutions are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States (in particular, some foreign jurisdictions do not permit patent protection for software), and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. In addition, the legal standards, both in the United States and in foreign countries, relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially viable. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to sell our offerings and subject us to possible litigation. Some of our offerings incorporate open source software, and we intend to continue to use open source software in the future. Some terms of certain open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by U.S. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to monetize our offerings. Additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source software license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license to continue offering the software or cease offering the implicated services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement or violation. This re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be willing to entertain the cost associated with updating the software or be able to complete it successfully. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software and, thus, may contain security vulnerabilities or infringing or broken code. Additionally, if we utilize open source licenses that require us to contribute to open source projects, this software code is publicly available; and our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such software source code may be limited or lost entirely. We may be unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Cybersecurity Cyberattacks, including the Cyber Incident, and other security incidents have resulted, and in the future may result, in compromises or breaches of our, our IT services provider customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers systems, the insertion of malicious code, malware, ransomware or other vulnerabilities into our, our IT services provider customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers systems, the exploitation of vulnerabilities in our, our T services provider customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers environments, the theft or misappropriation of our, our IT services provider customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers proprietary and confidential information, and interference with our, our IT services provider customers, or their SMB and mid-market customers operations, exposure to legal and other liabilities, higher customer and employee attrition and the loss of key personnel, negative impacts to our sales, renewals and upgrades and reputational harm and other serious negative consequences, any or all of which could materially harm our business. We are heavily dependent on our technology infrastructure to operate our business, and our customers rely on our solutions to help manage and secure their IT infrastructure and environments, and that of their SMB and mid-market customers, including the protection of confidential information. Despite our implementation of security measures and controls, our systems, the systems of our third-party service providers upon which we rely, the systems of our customers and the virtualized systems of our customers, as well as the information that those systems store and process are vulnerable to attack from numerous threat actors, including sophisticated nation-state and nation-state-supported actors (including advanced persistent threat intrusions). Threat actors have been, and may in the future be, able to compromise our security measures or otherwise exploit vulnerabilities in our systems, including vulnerabilities that may have been introduced through the actions of our employees or contractors or defects in design or manufacture of our products and systems or the products and systems that we procure from third parties. In doing so, they have been, and may in the future be, able to breach or compromise our IT systems, including those which we use to design, develop, deploy and support our products, and access and misappropriate our, our current and former employees and our customers proprietary and confidential information, including our software source code, introduce malware, ransomware or vulnerabilities into our products and systems and create system disruptions or shutdowns. By virtue of the role our products play in helping to manage and secure the environments and systems of our customers and their end customers, attacks on our systems and products can result in similar impacts on our customers and their customers systems and data. Cybersecurity has become increasingly important to our customers as their end customers experience increased security threats while more of their workforce works remotely. Larger volumes of remote devices are connecting to SMBs networks driving increased vulnerability and incidences of ransomware and phishing attacks are growing, making security a high priority for SMBs. The potential impact of cybersecurity breaches or incidents affecting customers remote monitoring of multiple SMB or mid-market customers networks and devices is significant. Moreover, the number and scale of cyberattacks have continued to increase and the methods and techniques used by threat actors, including sophisticated supply-chain attacks such as the Cyber Incident, continue to evolve at a rapid pace. As a result, we may be unable to identify current attacks, anticipate these attacks or implement adequate security measures. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period and, therefore, have a greater impact on our solutions, our proprietary data or the data of our IT services provider customers or their SMB and mid-market customers, and ultimately on our business. In addition, our ability to defend against and mitigate cyberattacks depends in part on prioritization decisions that we and third parties upon whom we rely make to address vulnerabilities and security defects. While we endeavor to address all identified vulnerabilities in our products, we must make determinations as to how we prioritize developing and deploying the respective fixes and we may be unable to do so prior to an attack. Likewise, even once a vulnerability has been addressed, for certain of our products, the fix will only be effective once a customer has updated the impacted product with the latest release, and customers that do not install and run the remediated versions of our products, and their SMB and mid-market customers, may remain vulnerable to attack. Cyberattacks, including the Cyber Incident, and other security incidents have resulted, and in the future may result, in numerous risks and adverse consequences to our business, including that (a) our prevention, mitigation and remediation efforts may not be successful or sufficient, (b) our confidential and proprietary information, including our source code, as well as personal information related to current or former employees and customers, may be accessed, exfiltrated, misappropriated, compromised or corrupted, (c) we incur significant financial, legal, reputational and other harms to our business, including, loss of business, decreased sales, severe reputational damage adversely affecting current and prospective customer, employee or vendor relations and investor confidence, U.S. or foreign regulatory investigations and enforcement actions, litigation, indemnity obligations, damages for contractual breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations, including laws and regulations in the United States and other jurisdictions relating to the collection, use and security of user and other personally identifiable information and data, significant costs for remediation, impairment of our ability to protect our intellectual property, stock price volatility and other significant liabilities, (d) our insurance coverage, including coverage relating to certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses, may not be available or sufficient to compensate for all 38 Table of Contents liabilities we incur related to these matters or that we may face increased costs to obtain and maintain insurance in the future, and (e) our steps to secure our internal environment, adapt and enhance our software development and build environments and ensure the security and integrity of the solutions that we deliver to our customers may not be successful or sufficient to protect against future threat actors or cyberattacks. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to our cybersecurity initiatives. The Cyber Incident has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, reputation, customer and employee relations, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. On December 14, 2020, SolarWinds announced that it had been the victim of a cyberattack (the Cyber Incident) on its Orion Software Platform and internal systems. SolarWinds investigation revealed that as part of this attack, malicious code (Sunburst) was injected into builds of SolarWinds Orion Software Platform that it released between March 2020 and June 2020. If present and activated in a customers IT environment, Sunburst could potentially allow an attacker to compromise the server on which the Orion Software Platform was installed. The Cyber Incident has been widely reported by SolarWinds and other third parties and appears to be one of the most complex and sophisticated cyberattacks in history. SolarWinds investigations have revealed that the threat actor employed novel and sophisticated techniques indicative of a nation state actor and consistent with the goal of cyber espionage via a supply-chain attack. Through the use of the novel SUNSPOT code injector that SolarWinds discovered in its investigation, the threat actor surreptitiously injected the Sunburst malicious code solely into builds of the Orion Software Platform. The threat actor undertook a test run of its ability to inject code into builds of the Orion Software Platform in October 2019, months prior to initiating the actual Sunburst injection into builds of the Orion Software Platform that SolarWinds released between March and June 2020. SolarWinds has not identified Sunburst in any of its more than 70 non-Orion products and tools, including, as previously disclosed, any of our N-able solutions. As a result of the Cyber Incident, we are faced with significant risks. As a part of SolarWinds and our prior branding as SolarWinds MSP, the Cyber Incident has harmed, and may continue to harm, our reputation, our customer and employee relations and our operations and business as a result of both the impact it has had on our relationships with existing and prospective customers and the significant time and resources that our personnel have had and may have to devote to investigating and responding to the Cyber Incident. Customers have and may in the future defer purchasing or choose to cancel or not renew their agreements or subscriptions with us as a result of the Cyber Incident. We have expended significant costs and expenses related to the Cyber Incident including in connection with investigations, our remediation efforts, our compliance with applicable laws and regulations in connection with the threat actors access to and exfiltration of information related to our current or former employees and customers, and our measures to address the damage to our reputation and customers and employee relations. We are also expending additional costs in connection with our ongoing cybersecurity-related initiatives. If we are unable to maintain the trust of our current and prospective customers and their SMB and mid-market customers, negative publicity continues and/or our personnel continue to have to devote significant time to the Cyber Incident, our business, market share, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. SolarWinds has confirmed to us that it has concluded its internal investigations relating to the Cyber Incident. While SolarWinds does not know precisely when or how the threat actor first gained access to its environment, its investigations uncovered evidence that the threat actor compromised credentials and conducted research and surveillance in furtherance of its objectives through persistent access to its software development environment and internal systems, including its Office 365 environment, for at least nine months prior to initiating the test run in October 2019. During this entire period, we were a part of the SolarWinds shared environment and the threat actor had persistent access to our systems and Office 365 environment. SolarWinds also has found evidence that causes us to believe that the threat actor exfiltrated certain information as part of its research and surveillance. The threat actor created and moved files that we believe contained source code for our products, although we are unable to determine the actual contents of those files. The threat actor also created and moved additional files, including files that may have contained data about our customers partners and files that may have contained data relating to trial and product activation of our N-central On Demand solution. We do not believe that any information of the SMB and mid-market customers of our customers would have been included in the files that were created by the threat actor. Although we are unable to determine the actual contents of these files, with respect to the files that may have contained data about our customers, we believe the information included in such files would not have contained highly sensitive personal information, such as credit card, social security, passport or bank account numbers, but could have contained other information such as customer IDs, business email addresses and encrypted customer portal login credentials. With respect to the files that may have contained data relating to trial and product activation of our N-central On Demand solutions, although we are unable to determine the actual content of such files, the information included in such files could have contained customer usernames and N-central On Demand initial passwords generated by N-able. The threat actor also moved files to a jump server, which SolarWinds believes was intended to facilitate exfiltration of the files out of the shared environment. Investigations to date have also revealed that the threat actor accessed the email accounts of certain of our personnel, some of which contained information related to current 39 Table of Contents or former employees and customers. SolarWinds has notified us that it has identified all personal information contained in the emails of these accounts, and has informed us that it has provided notices to any impacted individuals and other parties as required. In October 2023, the SEC filed a complaint against SolarWinds and its chief information officer alleging violations of the Exchange Act and Securities Act relating to SolarWinds cybersecurity disclosures and public statements, as well as its internal controls and disclosure