Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Please see the section entitled Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement above and the risk factors discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors below for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Overview N-able, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries (Company, we, us and our) is a leading global provider of cloud-based software solutions for managed service providers (MSPs), enabling them to support digital transformation and growth for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which we define as those enterprises having less than 1,000 employees. With a flexible technology platform and powerful integrations, N-able makes it easy for MSPs to monitor, manage, and protect their end-customer systems, data, and networks. Our growing portfolio of security, automation, and backup and recovery solutions is built for IT services management professionals. N-able simplifies complex ecosystems and enables customers to solve their most pressing challenges. In addition, we provide extensive, proactive supportthrough enriching partner programs, hands-on training, and growth resourcesto help MSPs deliver exceptional value and achieve success at scale. Through our multi-dimensional land and expand model and global presence, we are able to drive strong recurring revenue growth and profitability. Separation from SolarWinds On August 6, 2020, SolarWinds Corporation (SolarWinds or Parent) announced that its board of directors had authorized management to explore a potential spin-off of its MSP business into our company, a newly created and separately traded public company, and separate into two distinct, publicly traded companies (the Separation). On July 19, 2021, SolarWinds completed the Separation through a pro-rata distribution (the Distribution) of all the outstanding shares of our common stock it held to the stockholders of record of SolarWinds as of the close of business on July 12, 2021 (the Record Date). Each SolarWinds stockholder of record received one share of our common stock, $0.001 par value, for every two shares of SolarWinds common stock, $0.001 par value, held by such stockholder as of the close of business on the Record Date. SolarWinds distributed 158,020,156 shares of our common stock in the Distribution, which was effective at 11:59 p.m., Eastern Time, on July 19, 2021. The Distribution reflected 316,040,312 shares of SolarWinds common stock outstanding on July 12, 2021 at a distribution ratio of one share of our common stock for every two shares of SolarWinds common stock. In addition, on July 19, 2021, and prior to completion of the Distribution, we issued 20,623,282 newly-issued shares of our common stock in connection with a private placement of N-ables common stock (the Private Placement). As a result of the Distribution, we became an independent public company and our common stock is listed under the symbol NABL on the New York Stock Exchange. Our financial statements for the periods through the Separation and Distribution date of July 19, 2021 are Consolidated Financial Statements prepared on a carve-out basis. Our financial statements for the period from July 20, 2021 forward are Consolidated Financial Statements based on our reported results as a standalone company. The Consolidated Financial Statements at September 30, 2022 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 are unaudited, but in our opinion include all normal recurring adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented. The Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2021 was derived from audited financial statements. The results reported in these Consolidated Financial Statements should not necessarily be taken as indicative of results that may be expected for the entire year. The financial information included herein should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Amendment No. 1 on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2021, collectively referred to as our 2021 Annual Report, and the financial statements and notes in our registration statement on Form 10 (File No. 001-40297), initially filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 29, 2021, as amended by Amendment No. 1 filed on April 6, 2021, Amendment No. 2 filed on April 14, 2021, Amendment No. 3 filed on May 27, 2021, and Amendment No. 4 filed on June 15, 2021 (the Form 10). The Form 10 includes a preliminary information statement that describes the Distribution and provides information regarding our business and management. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC at 3:00 p.m. Central Time on June 25, 2021. The final information statement was furnished as exhibit 99.3 to the Form 8-K we filed with the SEC on July 12, 2021 (the Information Statement). See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 5. Relationship with Parent and Related Entities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 23 Impacts of COVID-19 The impact from the rapidly changing market and economic conditions due to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on our business is uncertain. Prior to the Separation and Distribution, SolarWinds, of which we were a part, initially responded to the COVID-19 pandemic by executing its business continuity plan and transitioning nearly all of its workforce to a remote work environment to prioritize the safety of its personnel. We have maintained a similar plan following the Separation and Distribution, and substantially all of our workforce is still working remotely and, to date, we have not incurred significant disruptions to our business operations as a result of this transition. We believe that the COVID-19 pandemic creates both opportunities and challenges for our business. As a result of the pandemic, we have seen an acceleration of digital transformation efforts among SMEs with increased demand for secure, modern remote work environments. We believe this will support long-term demand for services offered by our MSP partners. The pandemic also has resulted in significant volatility, uncertainty and disruption in the global economy, in particular for SMEs. As a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced a deceleration in our year-over-year subscription revenue growth rate in the second quarter of 2020 as compared to our growth rates in prior periods. We attribute this deceleration primarily to increased churn and downgrades from existing MSP partners and slower MSP partner adds. Beginning in the third quarter of 2020, and continuing through the third quarter of 2022, we have seen the impact on revenue growth continue to dissipate. We are unable to predict the long-term impact that the pandemic may have on our business, results of operations and financial condition due to numerous uncertainties, including the duration of the pandemic, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities around the world in response to the pandemic, the impacts on the businesses of our MSP partners and their customers and other factors identified in the section entitled Item 1A. Risk Factors in our 2021 Annual Report. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition. SolarWinds Cyber Incident As previously disclosed, SolarWinds was the victim of a cyberattack on its Orion Software Platform and internal systems, or the Cyber Incident. SolarWinds has confirmed to us that it has concluded its internal investigations related to the Cyber Incident. SolarWinds has not identified Sunburst in any of its more than 70 non-Orion products and tools, including, as previously disclosed, any of our N-able solutions. SolarWinds, together with its partners, have undertaken extensive measures to investigate, contain, eradicate, and remediate the Cyber Incident. As SolarWinds previously disclosed in its investigatory updates, it has substantially completed this process and believes the threat actor is no longer active in its environments. In response to the Cyber Incident and in connection with the Separation and Distribution, we are working to further enhance security, monitoring and authentication of our solutions. Specifically, we have implemented in-product security enhancements to the N-able portfolio of products, including, multi-factor authentication, unified single sign-on services, and secure secret vaults. We have also introduced new identity and access controls, scanning and remediation technologies and standards and monitoring tooling across our enterprise IT and production environments. We expect to incur additional expenses in future periods related to continued enhancements to our security measures across our solutions. Of the expenses SolarWinds recorded related to the Cyber Incident through the Separation and Distribution date of July 19, 2021, none have been allocated to the N-able business and, as a result of the indemnification provisions under the Separation and Distribution Agreement entered into in connection with the Separation and Distribution (the Separation and Distribution Agreement), we have not recorded any contingent liabilities with respect to the Cyber Incident as of September 30, 2022. In addition, as a result of the Cyber Incident, SolarWinds is subject to numerous lawsuits and governmental investigations or inquiries. To date, we have not been separately named in such lawsuits and investigations, but in the future we may become subject to lawsuits, investigations or inquiries related to the Cyber Incident. In such event, subject to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, SolarWinds would indemnify us for costs we may incur. We believe the Cyber Incident has caused reputational harm to SolarWinds and also had an adverse impact on our reputation, new subscription sales and net retention rates. In 2021, we experienced an adverse impact to new subscription sales and expansion rates relative to historical levels. We believe this was due in part to our decision in response to the Cyber Incident to temporarily reduce investments in demand generation activities through January 2021, as well as a result of certain MSP partners delaying their purchasing decisions as they assessed the potential impact of the Cyber Incident. However, we also have seen consistency among renewal rates with our larger MSP partners and have not observed material adverse trends with respect to the usage of our solutions. In addition, following our resumption of regular demand generation activities in February 2021, we were encouraged by engagements with both prospective and existing MSP partners. In general our sales cycles and time from contract to revenue recognition are primarily short in nature and based on trends through the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we believe that the adverse impacts of the Cyber Incident on our financial results will diminish over time in the absence of new discoveries or events. Nevertheless, there is risk that the Cyber Incident may continue to have an adverse 24 impact on our business in future periods, and to the extent such impact continues, including as a result of new discoveries or events, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial position. Results of Operations Our financial statements for the periods through the Separation and Distribution date of July 19, 2021 are Consolidated Financial Statements prepared on a carve-out basis. Our financial statements for the period from July 20, 2021 forward are Consolidated Financial Statements based on our reported results as a standalone company. Through the Separation and Distribution date of July 19, 2021, we operated as a part of SolarWinds. Therefore, stand-alone financial statements were not historically prepared for us. The accompanying historical Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared from SolarWinds historical accounting records and are presented on a stand-alone basis as if our business operations had been conducted independently from SolarWinds. The Consolidated Financial Statements present our historical results of operations in accordance with GAAP. Prior to the Separation and Distribution, N-able comprised certain stand-alone legal entities for which discrete financial information was available. As SolarWinds recorded transactions at the legal entity level, for the legal entities which were shared between the N-able business and other SolarWinds operations for which discrete financial information was not available, allocation methodologies were applied to certain accounts to allocate amounts to us as discussed in Note 1. Organization and Nature of Operations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . The Consolidated Statements of Operations include all revenue and costs directly attributable to N-able as well as an allocation of expenses related to facilities, functions and services provided by SolarWinds prior to the Separation and Distribution. These corporate expenses have been allocated to our business based on direct usage or benefit, where identifiable, with the remainder allocated based on headcount where appropriate. These allocations are primarily reflected within operating expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We believe the basis on which the expenses have been allocated to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to, or the benefit received by, us during the periods presented. However, these allocations may not be indicative of the actual expenses we would have incurred as a stand-alone company during the periods prior to the Separation and Distribution or of the costs we will incur in the future. See Note 5. Relationship with Parent and Related Entities of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details of the allocated costs. Third Quarter Financial Highlights Revenue We deliver a platform of integrated solutions that enables our MSP partners to manage and secure the IT environments and assets for their SME end customers, as well as more efficiently manage their own businesses. Our total revenue was $93.5 million and $88.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of September 30, 2022, we had approximately 25,000 customers. Additionally, as of September 30, 2022, we had 1,786 MSP partners with annualized recurring revenue (ARR) over $50,000 on our platform, up from 1,662 as of September 30, 2021, representing an increase of 7.5%. Over the same period, MSP partners with over $50,000 of ARR on our platform grew from approximately 46% of our total ARR as of September 30, 2021 to approximately 50% of our total ARR as of September 30, 2022. We determine ARR as the annualized recurring revenue as of the last month of a given period. We calculate ARR by multiplying the recurring revenue and related usage revenue, excluding the impacts of credits and reserves, recognized during the final month of the reporting period from both long-term and month-to-month subscriptions by twelve. We use ARR, and in particular, ARR attributable to MSP partners with over $50,000 of ARR, to enhance the understanding of our business performance and the growth of our relationships with our MSP partners. 25 Profitability We have grown while maintaining high levels of operating efficiency. However, our profitability for the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2021 was negatively impacted by adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our operating income for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $11.7 million compared to operating income of $9.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. Our net income for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $0.3 million compared to net income of $1.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2021. The decrease in net income for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was primarily due to an increase in cost of revenue, an increase in interest expense, net, an increase in research and development and sales and marketing expense, and an increase in other expense, net, partially offset by an increase in revenue, a decrease in general and administrative expense, and a decrease in amortization of both acquired technologies and intangibles. Our Adjusted EBITDA, calculated as net income of $0.3 million and net income of $1.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively, excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets and developed technology of $2.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively, depreciation expense of $3.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, income tax expense of $4.5 million and $3.9 million, respectively, interest expense, net of $5.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively, unrealized foreign currency losses of $1.5 million and $0.7 million, respectively, acquisition related costs of $0.2 million and zero, respectively, spin-off costs of $0.4 million and $2.4 million, respectively, stock-based compensation expense and related employer-paid payroll taxes of $10.2 million and $11.9 million, respectively, and restructuring costs and other of $0.6 million and less than $0.1 million, respectively, was $28.9 million and $29.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Cash Flow We have built our business to generate strong cash flow over the long term. For the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, cash flows from operations were $17.1 million and $3.1 million, respectively. Our cash flows from operations were reduced by cash payments for interest of $4.1 million and $3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and cash payments for income taxes of $9.3 million and $4.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Acquisitions On July 1, 2022, we completed the acquisition of all the outstanding equity of Spinpanel B.V. (Spinpanel) for a total consideration of up to approximately $20.0 million, including up to $10.0 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue metrics through July 1, 2025. We funded the transaction with cash on hand. Based in the Netherlands, Spinpanel is a multi-tenant Microsoft 365 management and automation platform built for Microsoft Cloud Solution Providers to automate the provisioning, security, and management of all Microsoft tenants, users, and licenses in a single consolidated hub. The acquisition of Spinpanel is intended to help our partners optimize the value of their Microsoft Cloud products and, in turn, give Spinpanel customers access to a wider array of IT management and security solutions. We incurred $0.2 million and $0.5 million in acquisition-related costs during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022, respectively, which are included in general and administrative expense. The results of operations related to Spinpanel since the acquisition date are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. We estimate the amounts of revenue and net loss related to the Spinpanel acquisition included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the effective date of the acquisition are insignificant during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. As noted above, total consideration includes up to $10.0 million payable upon the achievement of certain revenue metrics through July 1, 2025. The contingent consideration liabilities will be re-evaluated periodically, but at least quarterly, with the resulting gains and losses recognized within general and administrative expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations and acquisition related costs within our non-GAAP financial measures. As of July 1, 2022, the fair value of this contingent consideration was $5.2 million. As of September 30, 2022, the fair value of this contingent consideration is $5.3 million, resulting in the recognition of a loss of $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2022. See Note 3. Acquisitions , Note 6. Fair Value Measurements , and Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the acquisition of Spinpanel. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of the following: Subscription Revenue. We primarily derive subscription revenue from the sale of subscriptions to the SaaS solutions that we host and manage on our platform. Our subscriptions provide access to the latest versions of our software platform, technical support and unspecified software upgrades and updates. Subscription 26 revenue for our SaaS solutions is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term once the service is made available to the MSP partner or when we have the right to invoice for services performed. In addition, our subscription revenue includes sales of our self-managed solutions, which are hosted and managed by our MSP partners. Subscriptions of our self-managed solutions include term licenses, technical support and unspecified software upgrades. Revenue from the license performance obligation of our self-managed solutions is recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the access to the licenses and revenue from the performance obligation related to the technical support and unspecified software upgrades of our subscription-based license arrangements is recognized ratably over the agreement period. We generally invoice subscription agreements monthly based on usage or in advance over the subscription period on either a monthly or annual basis. Other Revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of revenue from the sale of our maintenance services associated with the historical sales of perpetual licenses. MSP partners with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive technical support and unspecified upgrades or enhancements to new versions of their solutions on a when-and-if-available basis for the specified agreement period. We expect maintenance revenue to decrease as a proportion of our total revenue over time. Cost of Revenue Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists of technical support personnel costs, public cloud infrastructure and hosting fees, royalty fees and an allocation of overhead costs for our subscription revenue and maintenance services. We allocate facilities, depreciation, benefits and IT costs based on headcount. Amortization of Acquired Technologies. We amortize to cost of revenue capitalized costs of technologies acquired in connection with the take private transaction of SolarWinds in early 2016 and our acquisitions. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses as well as amortization of acquired intangibles. Personnel costs include salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation and related employer-paid payroll taxes, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, benefits and IT costs. For the periods through the Separation and Distribution date of July 19, 2021, SolarWinds provided facilities, information technology services and certain corporate and administrative services to us. Expenses relating to these services have been allocated to Nable and are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We had total employees of 1,486, 1,399, and 1,335 as of September 30, 2022, December 31, 2021, and September 30, 2021, respectively. Our stock-based compensation expense increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to the impact of both the conversion of existing unvested and unexercised equity awards in connection with the Separation and Distribution and new equity awards granted to employees following the Separation and Distribution through September 30, 2022. Our travel costs increased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, which reflected reduced travel due to COVID-19. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of related personnel costs, including our sales, marketing, partner success and product management teams. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of digital marketing programs such as paid search, search engine optimization and management and website maintenance and design, as well as the cost of events for existing and prospective customers. We expect to continue to grow our sales and marketing organization domestically and internationally to drive new MSP partner adds, expand with existing MSP partners and pursue initiatives designed to help our MSP partners succeed and grow. Research and Development. Research and development expenses primarily consist of related personnel costs. We expect to continue to grow our research and development organization domestically and internationally and also to incur additional expenses associated with bringing new product offerings to market and our enhancements of security, monitoring and authentication of our solutions. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel costs for executives, finance, legal, human resources, business applications and other administrative personnel, general restructuring charges and other acquisition-related costs, professional fees and other general corporate expenses. We expect to continue to grow our general and administrative organization domestically and internationally to support continued growth and the requirements associated with being a stand-alone public company following the Separation and Distribution. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles. We amortize to operating expenses capitalized costs of intangible assets acquired in connection with the take private transaction of SolarWinds in early 2016 and our acquisitions. 27 Other Expense Other expense primarily consists of interest expense related to our credit agreement and related party debt and gains (losses) resulting from changes in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated accounts. See