Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. In addition to historical consolidated financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Please see the section entitled Safe Harbor Cautionary Statement above and the risk factors described in Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these statements. The following discussion and analysis also includes a discussion of certain non-GAAP financial measures. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Overview N-able, Inc., a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries (Company, we, us and our) is a leading global provider of cloud-based security, data protection, and unified endpoint management software solutions for IT services providers, including managed service providers (MSPs). Our powerful technology enables them to support digital transformation and growth for small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) and mid-market businesses, which we define as those businesses having fewer than 2,500 employees. With a flexible technology platform and powerful integrations, N-able makes it easy for our customers to monitor, manage, and protect systems, data, and networks. Our growing portfolio of management, security, automation, and data protection solutions is built for IT services management professionals. In addition, we provide extensive, proactive supportthrough enriching partner programs, hands-on training, and growth resourcesto help our customers deliver exceptional value and achieve success at scale. Through our multi-dimensional land and expand model and global presence, we have been able to drive strong recurring revenue growth and profitability. On August 6, 2020, SolarWinds Corporation (SolarWinds or Parent) announced that its board of directors had authorized management to explore a potential spin-off of its MSP business into our company, a newly created and separately traded public company, and separate into two distinct, publicly traded companies (the Separation). On July 19, 2021, SolarWinds completed the Separation through a pro-rata distribution (the Distribution) of all the outstanding shares of our common stock it held to the stockholders of record of SolarWinds as of the close of business on July 12, 2021. As a result of the Distribution, we became an independent public company and our common stock is listed under the symbol NABL on the New York Stock Exchange. On December 14, 2020, SolarWinds announced that it had been the victim of a cyberattack (the Cyber Incident) on its Orion Software Platform and internal systems. SolarWinds investigation revealed that as part of this attack, malicious code (Sunburst) was injected into builds of SolarWinds Orion Software Platform that it released between March 2020 and June 2020. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, SolarWinds Cyber Incident" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024 for a discussion of the Cyber Incident. First Quarter Financial Highlights Revenue Our total revenue was $118.2 million and $113.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we began increasing the proportion of our subscriptions that are long-term committed contracts, as compared to month-to-month contracts (the Long-Term Contract Initiative). Under Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), we recognize revenue for long-term subscriptions when the distinct license is made available to the customer, and support revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term. Revenue from the license performance obligation of our self-managed solutions is recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the access to the licenses and revenue from the performance obligation related to the technical support and unspecified software upgrades of our subscription-based license arrangements is recognized ratably over the agreement period. The Long-Term Contract Initiative results in an increase in point in time subscription revenue, primarily due to the impact of revenue recognition for long-term committed contracts under Topic 606, net of any volume and pricing rationalization when committing to long-term subscriptions and any fluctuations in month-to-month contracts. See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding revenue recognized from subscription and other services at a point in time and over time. 25 Annual Recurring Revenue Total annual recurring revenue (ARR) as of March 31, 2025 was $492.7 million, compared to $446.6 million as of March 31, 2024, representing an increase of 10.3%. This increase was primarily due to steady demand for our solutions and the impact of the November 20, 2024 acquisition of Adlumin. As of March 31, 2025, we had 2,398 customers with ARR over $50,000 on our platform, up from 2,187 as of March 31, 2024, representing an increase of 9.6%. Over the same period, customers with over $50,000 of ARR on our platform grew from approximately 56% of our total ARR as of March 31, 2024 to approximately 58% of our total ARR as of March 31, 2025. We calculate ARR by annualizing the recurring revenue and related usage revenue inclusive of discounts, excluding the impacts of credits and reserves, recognized during the last day of the reporting period from both long-term and month-to-month subscriptions. We use ARR, and in particular ARR attributable to customers with over $50,000 of ARR, to enhance the understanding of our business performance and the growth of our relationships with our customers. Profitability Our operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $1.8 million, compared to operating income of $20.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Our net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $7.2 million compared to net income of $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily due to an increase in general and administrative expense, an increase in cost of revenue, an increase in sales and marketing expense, an increase in amortization of acquired technologies, an increase in research and development expense, and an increase in amortization of acquired intangibles, partially offset by an increase in revenue, a decrease in income tax expense, a decrease in interest expense, net, and an increase in other income, net. Our Adjusted EBITDA, calculated as net (loss) income of $(7.2) million and $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, excluding amortization of acquired intangible assets and developed technology of $6.2 million and $1.9 million, respectively, depreciation expense of $4.2 million and $4.0 million, respectively, income tax expense of $3.3 million and $5.7 million, respectively, interest expense, net of $7.1 million and $7.6 million, respectively, unrealized foreign currency (gains) losses of $(0.8) million and $0.8 million, respectively, transaction related costs of $6.3 million and $(1.4) million, respectively, spin-off costs of $0.0 million and $0.1 million, respectively, stock-based compensation expense and related employer-paid payroll taxes of $12.7 million and $13.0 million, respectively, and restructuring costs and other of $(0.1) million and $0.6 million, respectively, was $31.6 million and $39.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. For a description and reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures discussed in this section, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Cash Flow We have built our business to generate strong cash flow over the long term. For the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, cash flows from operations were $19.7 million and $4.2 million, respectively. Our cash flows from operations were reduced by cash payments for interest of $6.4 million and $7.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and cash payments for income taxes of $2.2 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of the following: Subscription Revenue. We primarily derive subscription revenue from the sale of subscriptions to the SaaS solutions that we host and manage on our platform. Our subscriptions provide access to the latest versions of our software platform, technical support and unspecified software upgrades and updates. Subscription revenue for our SaaS solutions is generally recognized ratably over the subscription term once the service is made available to the customer or when we have the right to invoice for services performed. In addition, our subscription revenue includes sales of our self-managed solutions, which are hosted and managed by our customers. Subscriptions of our self-managed solutions include term licenses, technical support and unspecified software upgrades. Revenue from the license performance obligation of our self-managed solutions is recognized at a point in time upon delivery of the access to the licenses and revenue from the performance obligation related to the technical support and unspecified software upgrades of our subscription-based license arrangements is recognized ratably over the agreement period. We generally invoice subscription agreements monthly based on usage or in advance over the subscription period on either a monthly or annual basis. 26 Other Revenue. Other revenue consists primarily of revenue from the sale of our maintenance services associated with the historical sales of perpetual licenses and revenue from professional services. MSP customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive technical support and unspecified upgrades or enhancements to new versions of their solutions on a when-and-if-available basis for the specified agreement period. Cost of Revenue Cost of Revenue. Cost of revenue consists of public cloud infrastructure and hosting fees, an allocation of overhead costs for our subscription revenue and maintenance services, royalty fees, and personnel costs for technical support and our security operations center. We allocate facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs based on headcount. Amortization of Acquired Technologies. We amortize to cost of revenue capitalized costs of technologies acquired in connection with the July 1, 2022 acquisition of Spinpanel B.V. (Spinpanel) and November 20, 2024 acquisition of Adlumin, Inc. (Adlumin). Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses as well as amortization of acquired intangibles. Generally, personnel costs are the most significant component of operating expenses and include salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation and related employer-paid payroll taxes, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. We had total employees of 1,800, 1,773, and 1,598 as of March 31, 2025, December 31, 2024, and March 31, 2024, respectively. Our stock-based compensation expense increased during the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year primarily due to the impact of new equity awards that were granted to employees through March 31, 2025, and we expect stock-based compensation expense to continue to increase during the year ending December 31, 2025. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of related personnel costs, including our sales, marketing, partner success and product management teams, net of capitalized commissions related to long-term committed contracts, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. Sales and marketing expenses also include the cost of digital marketing programs such as paid search, search engine optimization and management and website maintenance and design, marketing development funds, as well as the cost of events for existing and prospective customers. We expect to continue to grow our sales and marketing organization over time to drive new customer adds, retain and expand with existing customers, and pursue initiatives designed to help our customers succeed and grow. Research and Development. Research and development expenses primarily consist of related personnel costs, including our engineering, development operations, user experience and security operations teams, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. We expect to continue to grow our research and development organization over time and also to incur additional expenses associated with bringing new product offerings to market and our enhancements of security, monitoring and authentication of our solutions. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel costs for executives, finance, legal, human resources, business applications and other administrative personnel, general restructuring charges and other transaction related costs, professional fees and other general corporate expenses, as well as an allocation of our facilities, depreciation, IT and benefits costs. We expect to continue to grow our general and administrative organization over time to support continued growth of our business. Amortization of Acquired Intangibles. We amortize to operating expenses capitalized costs of intangible assets primarily acquired in connection with the July 1, 2022 acquisition of Spinpanel and the November 20, 2024 acquisition of Adlumin. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of interest expense related to the Credit Agreement and the Adlumin deferred consideration liability and losses resulting from changes in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated accounts, partially offset by gains resulting from changes in exchange rates on foreign currency denominated accounts, dividend income from our money market fund financial assets and interest income on recoverable taxes. See