Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, Live Oak Acquisition Corp. II, Live Oak, our, us or we refer to Live Oak Acquisition Corp. II. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in Delaware on August 12, 2020. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. Our sponsor is Live Oak Sponsor Partners II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Sponsor). The registration statement for the Initial Public Offering was declared effective on December 2, 2020. On December 7, 2020, we consummated its Initial Public Offering of 25,300,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A common stock included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), including 3,300,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $253.0 million. Transaction costs amounted to $13,064,337, consisting of $4,610,000 in cash underwriting fees, $8,067,500 of deferred underwriting fees and $386,837 of other offering costs. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 4,666,667 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant to the Sponsor, generating proceeds of $7.0 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, including the full exercise of the over-allotment option by the underwriters, and the Private Placement, $253.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement was placed in a trust account (Trust Account) located in the United States with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and will be invested only in U.S. government treasury bills with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds investing solely in U.S. Treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. The Company must complete one or more initial Business Combinations having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the net assets held in the Trust Account (net of amounts disbursed to management for working capital purposes, if permitted, and excluding the amount of any deferred underwriting commissions) at the time of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. However, we will only complete a Business Combination if the post-business combination company owns or acquires 50% or more of the voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. 18 If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or December 7, 2022, or during any extended period of time that we may have to consummate a Business Combination as a result of an amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation (the Combination Period), we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds held in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining stockholders and the board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case to the Companys obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021, we had $163,168 in its operating bank account and working capital of $285,127. Our liquidity needs prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering were satisfied through the payment of $25,000 from the Sponsor to purchase Founder Shares (as defined below), and loan proceeds from the Sponsor of $240,000 under the Note. We repaid the Note upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering out of the $750,000 of offering proceeds that was allocated to the payment of offering expenses (other than underwriting commissions) not held in the trust account. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our liquidity has been satisfied through the net proceeds from the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement held outside of the Trust Account. Based on the foregoing, management believes that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors to meet its needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, we will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the industry and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of our operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to June 30, 2021 was in preparation for our formation and the Initial Public Offering. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of $12,048,007, which consisted of $10,742,000 of loss from the change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, $23,198 of income from investments in the Trust Account, and $812 of interest income partially offset by $1,330,017 of general and administrative expenses. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net loss of $10,584,792, which consisted of $9,039,000 of loss from the change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities,$60,666 of income from investments in the Trust Account, and $3,717 of interest income partially offset by $1,610,175 of general and administrative expenses. 19 Contractual Obligations Administrative Services Agreement Commencing on the effective date of the prospectus through the earlier of consummation of the initial Business Combination and the Companys liquidation, the Company agreed to pay the Sponsor a total of $15,000 per month for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support. Although none of our sponsor, executive officers or directors, or any of their respective affiliates, will be allowed to receive any compensation, finders fees or consulting fees from a prospective business combination target in connection with a contemplated initial business combination, we do not have a policy that prohibits our sponsor, executive officers or directors, or any of their respective affiliates, from negotiating for the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses by a target business. The audit committee will review on a quarterly basis all payments that were made to the Sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates and. There is no cap or ceiling on the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such persons in connection with activities on the Companys behalf. For the three months and six months ended June 30, 2021, the Company incurred and paid approximately $45,000 and $90,000 in administrative expense which is included in general and administrative expenses on the unaudited condensed statements of operations. Registration Rights The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans, if any, (and any shares of Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement signed upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. The holders of these securities were entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders had certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial Business Combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement The Company granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 3,300,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. The underwriters exercised their over-allotment option in full prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per Unit, or approximately $4.6 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, the underwriters will be entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or approximately $8.0 million in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. 20 The 8,433,333 warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering (the Public Warrants) and the 4,666,667 Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised. The fair value of the Public Warrants issued in connection with the Public Offering have been estimated using a binomial lattice model in a risk-neutral framework. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants has been estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. .. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value for the Public Warrants and the Private Placement Warrants as of each relevant date. Class A Common Stock Shares Subject to Possible Redemption Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instruments and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including shares of Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, 21,082,153 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption at the redemption amount were presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the unaudited condensed balance sheets. Net Income Per Common Share Net income (loss) per common share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. The Company has not considered the effect of Warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and private placement to purchase 12,066,667 shares of Class A common stock in the calculation of diluted income per share, since the average stock price of the Companys common stock for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021 was less than the exercise price and therefore, the inclusion of such Warrants under the treasury stock method would be anti-dilutive. The Companys statements of operations includes a presentation of income (loss) per share for common shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income (loss) per share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted, for Class A redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, by the weighted average number of Class A redeemable common stock outstanding for the period. Net income (loss) per share, basic and diluted, for Class B non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), adjusted for income attributable to Class A redeemable common stock, net of applicable franchise and income taxes, by the weighted average number of Class B non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the period. Class B non-redeemable common stock includes the Founder Shares as these shares do not have any redemption features and do not participate in the income earned on the Trust Account. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity , which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company early adopted the ASU on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards updates, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the accompanying financial statement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 21 Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.