Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, Live Oak Acquisition Corp. II, Live Oak, our, us or we refer to Live Oak Acquisition Corp. II. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a former blank check company incorporated in Delaware on August 12, 2020 under the name Live Oak Acquisition Corp II. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). For additional detail regarding our initial public offering and related transactions, see Note 1 Description of Business and Business Operation Business Prior to the Business Combination. We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. On October 19, 2021, we consummated our Business Combination with Legacy Navitas (as defined below). 20 Recent Developments Business Combination On October 19, 2021 (the Closing Date), Navitas Semiconductor Corporation, a Delaware corporation (formerly named Live Oak Acquisition Corp. II (LOKB)) (the Company), consummated (the Closing) the previously announced Business Combination (as defined below) pursuant to that certain Business Combination Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the Business Combination Agreement), dated as of May 6, 2021, by and among LOKB, Live Oak Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned direct subsidiary of LOKB (Merger Sub), and Navitas Semiconductor Limited, a private company limited by shares organized under the laws of Ireland (Navitas Ireland) with a dual existence as a domesticated limited liability company in the State of Delaware as Navitas Semiconductor Ireland, LLC (Navitas Delaware, and together with Navitas Ireland, Legacy Navitas). Pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination Agreement, the Business Combination between the Company and Legacy Navitas was effected through (i) a tender offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of Navitas Ireland (other than Navitas Ireland Restricted Shares (as defined below)) in exchange for the Tender Offer Consideration (as defined below) (the Tender Offer) and (ii) the merger of Merger Sub with and into Navitas Delaware (the Merger) and together with the Tender Offer and the other transactions related thereto, the Business Combination), with Navitas Delaware surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and as a result of the Tender Offer and the Merger, Legacy Navitas became a wholly owned direct subsidiary of LOKB. A total of 72,143,708 Navitas Ireland Shares (as defined below) were validly tendered (and not withdrawn) pursuant to the Tender Offer. The Tender Offer Consideration for all outstanding ordinary shares of Navitas Ireland, par value of $ 0.0001 per share (the Navitas Ireland Common Shares) (other than the outstanding restricted Navitas Ireland Common Shares granted pursuant to the 2020 Equity Incentive Plan (the Navitas Ireland Restricted Shares), and all Navitas Ireland Series A Preferred Shares, Navitas Ireland Series B Preferred Shares, Navitas Ireland Series B-1 Preferred Shares and Navitas Ireland Series B-2 Preferred Shares (the Navitas Ireland Preferred Shares and together with the Navitas Ireland Common Shares, the Navitas Ireland Shares) accepted pursuant to the Tender Offer, was comprised of (i) the aggregate offer price of 39,477,026 shares (the Tender Shares) of the Companys Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Common Stock), and (ii) the contingent right to receive during the five-year period following the Closing, but excluding the first 150 days following the Closing (the Earnout Period), certain additional shares of Common Stock as specified in the Business Combination Agreement (the Tender Earnout Shares), which, together with the Merger Earnout Shares and certain shares of Common Stock that may become issuable to equity award holders and/or warrant holders, will be comprised of up to 10,000,000 additional shares of Common Stock in the aggregate (the Earnout Shares), in three equal tranches, upon the satisfaction of certain price targets set forth in the Business Combination Agreement, which price targets will be based upon the volume-weighted average closing sale price of one share of Common Stock quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market (NASDAQ), for any twenty (20) trading days within any thirty (30) consecutive trading day period within the Earnout Period. At the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time) all of the issued and outstanding limited liability company interests represented by the ordinary shares of Navitas Delaware, par value $0.0001 per share (each a Navitas Delaware Common Share) (other than the outstanding restricted Navitas Delaware Common Shares granted pursuant to the 2020 Equity Incentive Plan (the Navitas Delaware Restricted Shares)) and each Navitas Delaware Series A Preferred Share, Navitas Delaware Series B Preferred Share, Navitas Delaware Series B-1 Preferred Share and Navitas Delaware Series B-2 Preferred Share (collectively, the Navitas Delaware Preferred Shares and together with the Navitas Delaware Common Shares, the Navitas Delaware Shares), were converted into an aggregate of 39,477,026 shares of Common Stock (the Merger Shares) and (ii) the contingent right to receive during the Earnout Period certain additional shares of Common Stock as specified in the Business Combination Agreement (the Merger Earnout Shares), in three equal tranches, upon the satisfaction of certain price targets set forth in the Business Combination Agreement, which price targets will be based upon the volume-weighted average closing sale price of one share of Common Stock quoted on the NASDAQ, for any twenty (20) trading days within any thirty (30) consecutive trading day period within the Earnout Period. In connection with the Business Combination Agreement, in a private placement of its securities, LOKB entered into PIPE subscription agreements with certain third-party investors (the PIPE Investors), pursuant to which the PIPE Investors agreed to purchase, and LOKB agreed to sell to the PIPE Investors, an aggregate of 17,300,000 shares of Common Stock (the PIPE Shares), for a purchase price of $10.00 per share and an aggregate purchase price of $173.0 million. The PIPE Shares were issued concurrently with the Closing of the Business Combination on the Closing Date. 21 The Company held a special meeting of its stockholders on October 12, 2021 (the Special Meeting ). At the Special Meeting, the LOKB stockholders considered and adopted, among other matters, the Business Combination Agreement. Prior to the Special Meeting, the holders of 10,135,544 shares of LOKBs common stock sold in its initial public offering (the Public Shares ) exercised their right to redeem those shares for cash at a price of approximately $10.00 per share, for an aggregate redemption price of approximately $101.4 million, which redemption occurred concurrent with the Closing of the Business Combination. The per share redemption price of approximately $10.00 for holders of Public Shares electing redemption was paid out of LOKBs trust account, which after taking into account the redemptions, had a balance immediately prior to the Closing of approximately $152 million. On the Closing Date, the following transactions (collectively, the Transactions ) were completed: LOKB acquired all of the issued and allotted Navitas Ireland Shares pursuant to the Tender Offer; Merger Sub merged with and into Navitas Delaware, with Navitas Delaware surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company; each share of common stock of Merger Sub issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time was automatically converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable limited liability company interest of Navitas Delaware held by the Company, which limited liability company interest constitutes the only outstanding limited liability company interest of Navitas Delaware; all issued and outstanding Navitas Ireland Shares (other than Navitas Ireland Restricted Shares) converted into an aggregate of 39,477,026 shares of Common Stock; all issued and outstanding Navitas Delaware Shares (other than Navitas Delaware Restricted Shares, shares held by the Company, Sponsor or held in treasury) converted into an aggregate of 39,477,026 shares of Common Stock; all Navitas Delaware Shares held in treasury were canceled without any conversion thereof; all of the outstanding options of Navitas Delaware and Navitas Ireland to acquire Navitas Delaware Common Shares or Navitas Ireland Common Shares, respectively, were assumed by the Company and converted into options to acquire an aggregate of 11,276,706 shares of Common Stock; all of the outstanding Navitas Delaware restricted stock units and Navitas Ireland restricted stock units were assumed by the Company and converted into awards of restricted stock units ( RSUs ) to acquire an aggregate of 4,525,344 shares of Common Stock; all of the outstanding warrants of Navitas Delaware and Navitas Ireland to acquire Navitas Delaware Common Shares, Navitas Delaware Preferred Shares, Navitas Ireland Common Stock, or Navitas Ireland Preferred Stock, respectively, were assumed by the Company and converted into warrants to acquire an aggregate of 375,189 shares of Common Stock; all of the 6,315,000 outstanding shares of the Companys Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Class B Common Stock ), held by the Sponsor were converted into an aggregate of 6,315,000 shares of Common Stock; all of the outstanding Company units were separated into one share of Common Stock and one-third (1/3) of one warrant to purchase one share of Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.50 per share (the Warrants ); and the Company issued an aggregate of 17,300,000 shares of Common Stock to the PIPE Investors pursuant to the closing of the PIPE (as defined below). 22 As a result of the foregoing Transactions (including the redemptions described above), as of the Closing Date and immediately following the completion of the Merger and the PIPE, the Company had the following outstanding securities: 117,733,507 shares of Common Stock; options to acquire an aggregate of 11,276,706 shares of Common Stock; RSUs to acquire an aggregate of 4,525,344 shares of Common Stock; and 8,433,333 public Warrants and 4,666,667 Private Placement Warrants (as defined below), each exercisable for one share of Class A Common Stock at a price of $11.50 per share. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2021, we had $13,955 in its operating bank account and working capital of $20,590. Our liquidity needs prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering were satisfied through the payment of $25,000 from the Sponsor to purchase Founder Shares (as defined below), and loan proceeds from the Sponsor of $240,000 under the Note. We repaid the Note upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering out of the $750,000 of offering proceeds that was allocated to the payment of offering expenses (other than underwriting commissions) not held in the trust account. Subsequent to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering, our liquidity has been satisfied through the net proceeds from the consummation of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement held outside of the Trust Account. Until the consummation of the Business Combination, the Company used the funds not held in the Trust Account for identifying and evaluating target businesses, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, traveling to and from the offices, plants or similar location of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, reviewing corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses and structuring, negotiating and completing an Initial Business Combination, which was the Business Combination with Navitas Semiconductor Corporation. The Company completed an Initial Business Combination on October 19, 2021, which was the Business Combination with Navitas Semiconductor Corporation, and has raised sufficient capital for its operations. The Company raised approximately $325 million of proceeds in the Business Combination transaction, including funds from the Trust Account net of redemptions and proceeds from the PIPE Offering, to fund operations and transaction expenses. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to September 30, 2021 was in preparation for our formation and the Initial Public Offering. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had net income of $4,323,720, which consisted of $4,585,001 of gain from the change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, $3,256 of interest earned from investments in the Trust Account, and $53 of interest income partially offset by $264,590 of general and administrative expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had net loss of $6,261,072, which consisted of $4,453,999 of loss from the change in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities, $63,922 of income from investments in the Trust Account and $3,770 of interest income partially offset by $1,874,765 of general and administrative expenses. For the period from August 12, 2020 (inception) through September 30, 2020, we had net loss of $1,045, which consisted of general and administrative expenses. 23 Contractual Obligations Administrative Services Agreement Commencing on the effective date of the prospectus through the earlier of consummation of the initial Business Combination and the Companys liquidation, the Company agreed to pay the Sponsor a total of $15,000 per month for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support pursuant to an administrative services agreement (the Administrative Services Agreement ). Although none of our sponsor, executive officers or directors, or any of their respective affiliates, will be allowed to receive any compensation, finders fees or consulting fees from a prospective business combination target in connection with a contemplated initial business combination, we do not have a policy that prohibits our sponsor, executive officers or directors, or any of their respective affiliates, from negotiating for the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses by a target business. The audit committee will review on a quarterly basis all payments that were made to the Sponsor, officers, directors or their affiliates and. There is no cap or ceiling on the reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses incurred by such persons in connection with activities on the Companys behalf. The Company incurred and paid approximately $45,000 and $135,000 in administrative expense for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2021, respectively, which is included in general and administrative expenses on the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. The Administrative Services Agreement terminated upon the closing of the Business Combination. Registration Rights The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans, if any, (and any shares of Class A common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans) were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement signed upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering (the Prior Registration Rights Agreement ). The holders of these securities were entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that the Company register such securities. In addition, the holders had certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of the initial Business Combination. The Company will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. In connection with the Closing of the Business Combination, the Company, Live Oak Sponsor Partners II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Sponsor ) and certain stockholders of the Company (together with the Sponsor, the Holders ) entered into an Amended and Restated Registration Rights Agreement (the Registration Rights Agreement ). The Registration Rights Agreement amends and restates the Prior Registration Rights Agreement between LOKB and the Sponsor and provides that the Company will be obligated to file, within 30 days after the Closing, a registration statement to register the resale of (i) certain shares of Common Stock held by the Holders, (ii) the Private Placement Warrants (as defined below) of the Sponsor (including any shares of Common Stock issued or issuable under any such Private Placement Warrant), (iii) equity securities of the Company issuable upon conversion of any working capital loans in an amount up to $1.5 million made to the Company by a Holder, (iv) any shares of the Company issued or to be issued to any Holders in connection with the Business Combination (including, any Earnout Shares) and (v) any other securities of the Company issued or issuable with respect to any such share of Common Stock by way of dividend or stock split or in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or reorganization. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement and subject to certain requirements and customary conditions, the Holders may make at any time or from time to time, a demand for an underwritten offering pursuant to a registration statement filed by the Company, but only on three separate occasions. The Registration Rights Agreement also provides the Holders with piggy-back registration rights, subject to certain requirements and customary conditions. Underwriting Agreement The Company granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 3,300,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less the underwriting discounts and commissions. The underwriters exercised their over-allotment option in full prior to the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. The underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per Unit, or approximately $4.6 million in the aggregate, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. In addition, the underwriters were entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or approximately $8.0 million in the aggregate. At the completion of the Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement, the deferred fee became payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account. Critical Accounting Policies Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity ( ASC 480 ) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging ( ASC 815 ). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. 24 The 8,433,333 warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering (the Public Warrants ) and the 4,666,667 Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjust the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised. The fair value of the Public Warrants issued in connection with the Public Offering were estimated using a binomial lattice model in a risk-neutral framework. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants were estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. For periods subsequent to the detachment of the Public Warrants from the Units, the Public Warrant quoted market price was used as the fair value for the Public Warrants and the Private Placement Warrants as of each relevant date. Class A Common Stock Shares Subject to Possible Redemption Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) is classified as a liability instruments and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including shares of Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of the our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, 21,082,153 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption at the redemption amount were presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Net income (loss) per common stock is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted average number of common stock outstanding for the period. The Company applies the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Accretion associated with the redeemable shares of Class A common stock is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity , which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company early adopted the ASU on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards updates, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the accompanying financial statement. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act ) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 25 Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.