Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Some of the key factors that could cause actual results to differ from our expectations include, but are not limited to: our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses, and our ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; our ability to execute strategies, plans, objectives, and goals; our ability to compete with existing and new competitors in existing and new markets and offerings; our ability to develop and protect our brand; our ability to effectively manage privacy and information and data security; costs associated with research and development and building out our sales, professional services and customer support teams; the concentration of our customer base in the financial institution ("FI") sector and their spending on cloud-based technology; our ability to add and retain customers; our ability to expand internationally and associated costs; our ability to comply with laws and regulations; our expectations and management of future growth based on subscription revenues over the term of our customer contracts; our expectations concerning relationships with our customers, partners, and other third parties; geopolitical conflicts, economic uncertainties, trade sanctions, inflationary pressures and fluctuating interest rates; economic and industry trends; projected growth or trend analysis; our relationship with Salesforce and our system integration ("SI") partners; seasonal sales fluctuations and our ability to successfully implement our new pricing model; i Table of Contents our ability to add capacity and automation to our operations and solutions, including artificial intelligence ("AI"); our ability to attract and retain key personnel; our ability to successfully integrate and realize the benefits from acquisitions and other strategic transactions; our ability to service our debt obligations; and our ability to successfully defend litigation or other proceedings brought against us. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this report speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Except as required by law, we disclaim any obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. In addition, statements such as we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date on which it is made and, although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted a thorough inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Furthermore, if our forward-looking statements prove to be inaccurate, the inaccuracy may be material. In light of the significant uncertainties in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or any other person that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified timeframe, or at all. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein, whether as a result of any new information, future events, or otherwise. ii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview As employees at financial institutions do their daily work and serve their clients, they often face inefficiencies due to disparate systems, broken workflows, manual processes, and the inability to harness and utilize data effectively. This negatively impacts risk management, decision making and the experiences of bankers and their clients. To solve the problem, FIs need technology that helps them reengineer every experience, intelligently and with agility as market needs shift, and a partner with the experience to help advise on best practices. nCino's trusted platform enables FIs to consolidate vendors while optimizing operations by integrating AI and actionable insights to cohesively bring together people and data and thereby enhance strategic decision-making, risk management, and customer satisfaction. From managing complex credit portfolios to streamlining account onboarding and originating loans, nCino helps FIs of all sizes globally deliver faster, intelligent, and more connected experiences. With the nCino Platform, FIs can: Embrace the Power of Intelligent Automation and Uncover Data-Driven Insights. AI is rapidly changing the financial services industry. As AI creates new value streams within banking, nCino is simplifying FIs' navigation through this transformative technology by infusing AI into every stage of the banking lifecycle and creating intelligent automation across the nCino Platform. Improve Efficiency. nCino customers leverage the platforms capabilities to drive process and knowledge efficiency by connecting previously disjointed functions, breaking down internal silos, and infusing intelligent automation into key workflows across multiple lines of business. Elevate Employee and Customer Experience. The nCino Platform's automation, workflow and digitization capabilities help eliminate manual processes and redundant efforts, freeing an FI's employees to focus on their clients experiences rather than their transactions. Manage Risk and Compliance More Effectively. The nCino Platform can help FIs reduce regulatory, credit and operational risk through workflow and automation, data reporting, standardized risk rating calculations and financial modeling. Because nCino is highly configurable, it can adjust as regulations and the FI's risk requirements evolve, including regulatory changes and economic headwinds. Our Journey nCino was originally founded in a bank to improve that institution's operations and client service. After realizing that virtually all banks and credit unions were dealing with the same problemscumbersome legacy technology, fragmented data, disconnected business functions, and a disengaged workforce that made it difficult to maintain relevancy in their clients' livesnCino was spun out as a separate company in late 2011 to help more institutions solve these challenges using cloud-based technology. We initially focused on developing the nCino Platform to transform commercial and small business lending for community and regional banks in the United States ("U.S."). We scaled the platform to enterprise banks in the U.S. in 2014, and then internationally in 2017. We have subsequently expanded across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Japan and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). nCino's approach to market expansion includes strategically building products and acquiring technology to continue to fulfill a platform vision. Over the years, we built and enhanced products internally to ensure innovation and seamless integration across key solution lines of commercial, small business and consumer banking. Through the strategic acquisitions of SimpleNexus, DocFox, FullCircl, ILT, Visible Equity, FinSuite, and our recent acquisition of Sandbox Banking, we significantly augmented the nCino's Platform's capabilities for mortgage lending, onboarding, account opening, indirect auto lending, and advanced analytics and AI. This strategic approach has allowed us to create a unified platform of best-in-class intelligent solutions, enabling FIs to replace multiple legacy systems, connect their operations, and streamline workflows and processes across various business lines to achieve desired business impact and process improvement. 1 Table of Contents How the nCino Platform Works nCino offers a trusted platform that brings together people and data and enables FIs to enhance strategic decision-making, risk management, and customer satisfaction through the selection of best-in-class intelligent solutions that create experiences to fit their needs. With the flexibility to select and implement multiple solutions simultaneously, or one at a time, institutions have the autonomy to create the experiences they desire with the benefit of an agile platform that scales with their needs and provides integrated functionality with every new product or feature added. Once implemented, the nCino Platform becomes deeply embedded in our customers business processes, enabling mission critical workflow across the FI and allowing our customers to serve their clients anytime, anywhere, from any internet-enabled device. The nCino Platform combines industry, customer, and process data with advanced analytics, predictive AI, and generative AI to deliver best-in-class, intelligent solutions. These solutions empower FIs with process, knowledge, and platform efficiency to optimize operations, enhance decision-making, and enrich banker and client experiences for accelerated growth. Fundamental elements of the nCino platform are built on Salesforce (the "Salesforce Platform"), which allows the Company to focus product development efforts on building deep vertical functionality specifically for FIs, while leveraging Salesforce's global infrastructure, reliability, and scalability. nCino also has solutions that leverage the Amazon Web Services ("AWS") platform. nCino has evolved from being a single product workflow solution to a platform that offers best-in-class, intelligent solutions. As a result, we have shifted from a seat-based pricing model to a pricing framework that helps ensure value-based positioning and pricing of our products primarily based on the asset size of the FI. This also enables us to embed and monetize intelligence across all our solutions. Through this evolution, we are aligning our revenues to the value of the nCino Platform and encouraging customer growth as nCino creates more efficiencies for our customers. Solutions on the nCino Platform The nCino Platform is embedded with data and AI that help FIs digitize and reengineer business processes across multiple lines of business from commercial, consumer and small business banking to mortgage lending to boost efficiencies across the full customer lifecycle. Onboarding. nCino's onboarding streamlines and enhances the customer onboarding process for FIs through a unified, digital platform. It supports both credit and non-credit onboarding, commercial account opening, and enterprise-level onboarding, offering features like automation, centralized data, and compliance tools (CDD/KYC). The platform eliminates manual processes, accelerates account opening, and provides a 360-degree customer view, ensuring transparency and efficiency. With intelligent document management, seamless integrations, and personalized customer experiences, nCino helps institutions boost customer satisfaction, operational efficiency, and revenue growth while helping to maintain compliance and reducing errors. Account Opening. nCino's account opening capabilities are designed to provide a seamless, fast, and user-friendly experience for both consumers and small businesses. The Deposit Account Opening (DAO) solution allows customers to open accounts in minutes, whether online or in-branch, with a multi-channel approach that provides data continuity. Key features include automated identity verification, helping to maintain compliance with KYC/AML regulations, and partnerships with companies like Plaid and Alloy to streamline authentication and reduce fraud. The solution also integrates digital customer service options, such as chat, audio, and video, to enhance engagement and reduce abandonment rates. Lending. nCino provides a comprehensive loan origination platform for commercial, consumer, small business, and mortgage lending, that streamlines processes and enhances customer experiences. Our Commercial Loan Origination System automates the entire loan lifecycle, improving collaboration, compliance, and efficiency. The Consumer Lending solution, offers an omnichannel solution with automated credit decisioning and integrations to reduce cycle times. The Small Business Loan Origination solution leverages automation and machine learning to simplify applications and accelerate approvals, while the Mortgage solution unifies the home buying process, reducing closing times. These capabilities enhance operational efficiency, help ensure compliance, and deliver seamless, customer-centric experiences. Portfolio Management.nCino's portfolio management solution empowers FIs to efficiently manage credit risks, monitor performance, and uncover growth opportunities through a unified, data-driven platform. The 2 Table of Contents solution centralizes data, automates workflows, and provides real-time insights to enhance decision-making and operational efficiency. Key features include continuous credit monitoring, risk analysis, and profitability optimization, supported by tools like automated spreading and commercial pricing. nCino's Portfolio Analytics solution offers customizable dashboards to track loan, deposit, and application data, helping to ensure compliance with regulations like CECL and Fair Lending. By integrating front, middle, and back-office processes, nCino enhances transparency, reduces manual tasks, and supports proactive risk management, enabling institutions to adapt to market changes and drive strategic growth. Our Customers As a pioneer in cloud banking, we have developed trusted relationships and a reputation for successfully implementing our solutions with FIs of all sizes in multiple geographies. Our diverse customer base ranges from global FIs, such as Bank of America, Barclays, Santander, and TD Bank; to enterprise banks, such as Truist Bank and U.S. Bank; to regional and community banks, like WaFd Bank, and ConnectOne Bank; to credit unions, such as Navy Federal Credit Union, SAFE Credit Union, Marine Credit Union, and Conexus Credit Union; to new market entrants, such as challenger banks like Recognise Bank and Judo Bank; to independent mortgage banks like Synergy One Lending and Fairway Independent Mortgage Corporation. These companies represent a cross-section of FIs across asset classes and geographies and each of these customers represent a substantial level of Annual Contract Value ("ACV") in its respective category. We ended fiscal 2025 with 2,789 customers, of which in fiscal 2025 we had 549 that generated more than $100,000 in subscription revenues, 105 that generated more than $1.0 million and 14 that generated more than $5.0 million. No single customer represented more than 10% of total revenues in fiscal 2025. How nCino Will Grow We intend to continue growing our business by executing on the following strategies: Expand Within and Across Our Existing Customers. We believe there is a significant opportunity to further expand within our existing customer base both vertically within and horizontally across, business lines. Our customer expansion opportunities are now further enhanced with our focus on embedding AI capabilities within our Platform to further enhance efficiency and mitigate risk. nCino is transitioning to a new asset-based pricing strategy (as reflected in our new pricing model) where our subscription revenues from existing customers will continue to grow with their portfolio assets and artificial intelligence capability consumption, which should also simplify the buying experience for our customers. Expand Our Customer Base. We believe the global market for an intelligent banking platform is large and underserved. With FIs needing to replace legacy point products with modern technology and increased consumer demand for digital services and AI, we believe there is a significant opportunity to deliver our solutions and expand our customer base to FIs of all sizes and complexities around the world. Currently deployed in over 20 countries, we have made significant investments to expand our presence in EMEA and APAC. We promote sales in North America out of our offices in the U.S. and Canada, in APAC out of our offices in Australia, New Zealand, and Japan, and in EMEA out of our offices in the UK, South Africa and Spain. Continue Strengthening and Extending Our Product Functionality. We invested 23.9% of our revenues back into research and development in fiscal 2025 and expect to continue to invest in fiscal 2026 to continue to extend the breadth and depth of the nCino Platform. Current plans direct that investment across nCino's solution lines and geographies and aim to enrich experiences and drive additional efficiencies into financial processes that are foundationally underpinned by the nCino Platform. These plans include a focus on augmentation of human in the loop processes, as well as process automation, both driven by practical deployment of AI and agentic concepts that can further reduce the human resources required for routine, time-consuming tasks. Foster and Grow Our SI and Partner Technology Ecosystem. nCino is focused on attracting and managing a rapidly growing network of organizations that collaborate to achieve shared success goals for our customers across the globe. Utilizing the open architecture of the nCino Platform, an increasing number of technology partners, including Anthropic, AWS, Databricks, Salesforce, Rich Data Co, Alloy, Plaid and Docusign, are integrated within our Platform. Leveraging our recent acquisition of Sandbox Banking, we are focused on 3 Table of Contents scaling our ecosystem strategy and business model to supplement our existing direct sales model. The aim is to deliver greater value to customers by leveraging the combined strengths and capabilities of all participants (customers, technology partners, and consulting partners) in our ecosystem. Expanding the ecosystem business can drive value in many different ways, including expanding our reach and access to new markets, driving new innovations and value creation, creating better customer experiences, and accelerating growth. This approach helps us address the demands we see in the market for embedded, customizable experiences and solutions that are easy to buy. We also have deep, long-standing relationships with leading consulting partners across the regional and enterprise banking space in every priority market across the globe. These partners (including Accenture, Deloitte, PwC, and West Monroe Partners, among others) assist in prospecting, marketing, co-selling, product evaluation/feedback and implementation of our solutions and have helped support our new market and global expansion. Selectively Pursue Strategic Transactions. In addition to developing our solutions organically, we may selectively pursue acquisitions, joint ventures, or other strategic transactions, such as our recent acquisitions of DocFox, FullCircl, ILT, and Sandbox Banking. We expect these transactions to focus on innovation to help strengthen and expand the functionality and features of our solutions and/or expand our global presence. Our Relationship with Salesforce We built fundamental elements of the nCino Platform on the Salesforce Platform to leverage its global infrastructure, reliability, and scalability. This allows us to benefit from continual improvement of the Salesforce Platform. We believe we have a mutually beneficial strategic relationship with Salesforce. Pursuant to our agreement with Salesforce, when we sell our client onboarding, loan origination, and/or deposit account opening solutions, we include a subscription to the underlying Salesforce Platform and remit a subscription fee to Salesforce. In exchange, Salesforce provides the hosting infrastructure and data center for these applications, as well as configuration, reporting, and other functionality within the Salesforce Platform. Under our agreement with Salesforce, we are an authorized reseller of Salesforces CRM functionality to certain FIs in the U.S. Our original agreement with Salesforce was entered into in December 2011, which was superseded and replaced on June 19, 2020. On December 20, 2023, our agreement with Salesforce was amended and its term was extended to expire on January 31, 2031 unless earlier terminated by either party in the event of the other partys material breach, bankruptcy, change in control in favor of a direct competitor, or intellectual property infringement. Our agreement with Salesforce automatically renews for additional one-year periods thereafter unless notice of termination is provided. Global Revenue Organization Our Global Revenue Organization includes business development representatives, account executives, field sales representatives, and marketing. These teams are responsible for demand and lead generation, driving new business, and helping to manage account relationships and renewals, to drive adoption of our solutions within and across lines of business. These teams maintain close relationships with existing customers and act as an advisor to each FI to help identify and understand their unique needs, challenges, goals, and opportunities. In addition, our marketing team oversees all aspects of the nCino global brand including brand strategy, public relations and external communications, integrated marketing, product marketing, market strategy, marketing operations, and regional marketing. Our marketing efforts span the full buyer journey from brand awareness and pipeline generation to adoption and cross-sell. Customer Success Once a customer contracts for the nCino Platform, we provide implementation services to assist in the deployment, either directly or through our SI partner ecosystem. For regional and community banks, we usually handle implementation ourselves. Most of these engagements average less than six months, significantly reducing the time-to-value for our customers. We expect to further reduce these timelines next fiscal year, given our investments in AI tooling and strategy. For our largest enterprise FIs, implementation timelines may extend beyond twelve months, primarily due to the complexity of adjacent program integrations, core conversion activities or other material infrastructure upgrades. For SI-led projects, we collaborate with SIs such as Accenture, Deloitte, and PwC, fielding a small team of advisory consultants alongside the SIs to help ensure success. 4 Table of Contents We support our customers with 24/7 access to engineers and technical support personnel, outcome-based support offerings, release management, managed services, and technical support via online chat. The nCino Customer Success Management team is the central contact for our customers, focusing on adoption, FI readiness to capitalize on new innovation, and helping our customers achieve the business value they expect. A significant majority of our FI customers whose employees utilize our client onboarding, loan origination, and deposit account opening solutions have joined our online nCino Community. In the nCino Community, users can access product guides and technical documents, engage and share best practices with other users and nCino subject matter experts through various discussion groups, suggest and vote for future product development ideas, and access training videos, materials and product certifications. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, development, engineering, and testing of our solutions. We utilize industry best practices, such as continuous integration/continuous deployment, automated testing and distributed version control, to develop new functionality and enhance our existing solutions. We provide opportunities for innovation through hackathons and new technology pilots, and we encourage customers to participate in our Product Design Programs to provide us with input on our product development roadmap. Our research and development spend was $129.4 million or 23.9% of total revenues in fiscal 2025. Competition Historically, the primary competition for the nCino Platform has been point solution vendors and systems developed internally by FIs. We believe our ability to provide client onboarding, loan origination, deposit account opening, analytics, portfolio management, and AI on a platform across lines of business, our deep banking domain expertise, our mortgage suite, our reputation for high-quality professional services and customer support, and our strong company culture, distinguish us from our competition. We believe our success in growing our business will depend on our ability to demonstrate to FIs that our solutions provide superior business outcomes and value to those of competitors or internally developed systems. In this regard, we are likely to be assessed on a number of factors, including: breadth and depth of functionality; ease of deployment, implementation and use; total cost of ownership and return on investment; level of customer satisfaction; brand awareness and reputation; cloud-based technology platform, availability of AI capabilities, and pricing model; quality of implementation and customer support services; capability for configurability, integration, and scalability; domain expertise in banking technology; security and reliability; ability of our solutions to support compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; ability to innovate and respond to customer needs quickly; ability to provide data connectivity and integrate with third-party applications and systems; and 5 Table of Contents insights and benchmarking derived from the cross-institution data and transactions that flow through our platform. We believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, but we expect competition to increase as existing competitors evolve their offerings and as new companies enter the market. Our ability to remain competitive will depend on our ongoing efforts in research and development, sales and marketing, professional services, customer support, and our business operations generally. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Risk FactorsThe markets in which we participate are intensely competitive and highly fragmented, and pricing pressure, new technologies or other competitive dynamics could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our core technology and innovations. We rely on federal, state, common law, and international rights, as well as contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property. We control access to our proprietary technology by entering into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with third parties. We seek patent protection for certain key innovations, protocols, processes, and other inventions. We pursue the registration of our trademarks, service marks, and domain names in the U.S. and in certain other locations. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain and still evolving. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are available. As of January 31, 2025, we had 12 issued patents relating to the nCino Platform in the U.S. We file patent applications where we believe there to be a strategic technological or business reason to do so. Although we actively attempt to utilize patents to protect our technologies, we believe that none of our patents, individually or in the aggregate, are material to our business. Human Capital Management nCino is in the business of helping FIs around the globe modernize their operations. To transform an industry, we believe our workplace culture is critical in fostering accountability and autonomy, enabling our employees to boldly innovate and deliver the best possible outcomes for our customers. Our culture delivers a differentiated employee value proposition that balances innovation, accountability, continuous learning, and career growth, underpinned by a foundation of six core values: Bring Your A-Game, Do the Right Thing, Respect Each Other, Make Someones Day, Have Fun and Be a Winner. Our unwavering commitment to our customers and employees is reflected across external measurements and outcomes, including numerous workplace awards as well as our Net Promoter Score commentary calling out our people and partnership. As of January 31, 2025, we had 1,833 employees, of which approximately 73% were in the U.S. and 27% were in other locations around the globe. We believe our employee engagement and experience remain strong. Employee Involvement As part of our priority to drive success through brand reputation and excellence, we listen to our employees and develop involvement programs that foster belonging and deliver value back to our communities. Powerful examples of this inclusive programming are nCino's Employee Resource Groups (ERGs), which are open to all nCino team members. These groups play an important role in building camaraderie among employees, providing resources to the broader nCino community, building nCino's reputation as an employer of choice for talent, while also creating opportunities for professional development and mentorship. nCino supports many causes and initiatives in the communities in which we operate. Combining corporate giving and matching along with employee giving, nCino has donated to numerous non-profits globally. With respect to philanthropic giving, the nCino community has broadly given back to various community groups, including those associated with STEM-focused education, social/community needs, environmental causes, and health research. Through nVolve, nCino's philanthropic and community service approach, we prioritize giving back to our communities by providing all employees paid volunteer days separate from regular leave or holidays to support organizations and causes that are important to them. 6 Table of Contents Total Rewards To ensure our ability to attract and retain the very best global talent, we offer market competitive compensation that is consistently evaluated, opportunities for equity ownership, savings options to help employees invest in their future, and generous, country-specific benefit packages. Technology, Development and Cloud Operations We deliver our solutions as secure, highly scalable cloud computing application and platform services with a multi-tenant technology and shared service-oriented architecture. Multi-tenancy is an architectural approach that allows us to operate a single application instance for multiple organizations, treating all customers as separate and virtual isolation from each other. Service-Oriented Architecture ("SOA") is a software design approach that builds applications from reusable, self-contained components called services, allowing them to communicate and interact across different platforms and technologies. This approach allows us to spread the cost of delivering our services across the globe and scale our business faster than traditional software vendors while focusing our resources on building new functionality and enhancing existing offerings. Our technology and product efforts are focused on improving and enhancing the features, functionality, performance, availability, and security of our existing service offerings, as well as developing new features, functionality, and services. We also remain focused on integrating businesses, services and technologies from acquisitions and with partners. Global Financial Service Providers Are Highly Regulated Global financial service providers and their solutions are subject to extensive and complex data, security, privacy, and regulatory oversight by international, country, federal, state and other regulatory authorities. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and affect the conduct of financial service providers' operations and, as a result, the business of their technology providers. The compliance process with these regulatory requirements depends on a variety of factors, including functionality and design, the classification of the financial service provider and its services, region or country of operation, and the manner in which the financial service provider and its end users utilize the solutions. In order to ensure compliance with these laws, financial service providers may be required to implement operating policies, procedures, and controls to protect the privacy and security of their, the financial service providers', and their end users' information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations. Security and Data Protection Is Paramount for Global Financial Service Providers The risks of cybercrime and fraud have always existed in banking and financial services. As the adoption and use of digital services increase in financial services, the incidence of cybercrime and fraud may grow substantially. The methods by which criminals seek to commit fraud are constantly changing, requiring financial services providers and their technology providers to continually modify their security protocols and best practices. Providing services to the financial services industry requires experience, constant vigilance, and continuous investment to stay informed and guard against these ever-changing threats. Available Information Our website is located at www.ncino.com and our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and all amendments to these filings, can be obtained free of charge from our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials with the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The contents of these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, the Companys references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently 7 Table of Contents believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Summary Risk Factors The below summary of risk factors provides an overview of many of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. As a result, the below summary risks do not contain all of the information that may be important to you, and you should read the summary risks together with the more detailed discussion of risks set forth following this section under the heading Risk Factors, as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may apply to our activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. Consistent with the foregoing, we are exposed to a variety of risks, including risks associated with the following: We derive most of our revenues from customers in the financial services industry, and any downturn or consolidation or decrease in technology spend in the financial services industry could adversely affect our business. Our future operating results are difficult to predict, in part because we do not have an extensive operating history at the current scale of our business, and we may not achieve our expected operating results in the future. We have a history of losses and while we have achieved profitability in a quarterly period, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP") basis in the future. If we are unable to attract new customers or continue to broaden our existing customers use of our solutions, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. As the market for cloud-based banking technology continues to develop, it may do so more slowly than we expect or changes in a way that we fail to anticipate, in which case our sales would suffer and our results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. We have recently changed our pricing model, and that and other factors may not accurately predict the long-term rate of customer subscription renewals or adoption of our solutions, or any resulting impact on our revenues or operating results. A breach of our security or privacy measures or those we rely on could result in unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, customer or their clients data, which may materially and adversely impact our reputation, business, and results of operations. Fundamental elements of the nCino Platform are built on the Salesforce Platform and we rely on our agreement with Salesforce to provide this solution to our customers. Because we recognize subscription revenues over the term of the contract, downturns or upturns in our business may not be reflected in our results of operations until future periods. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive and highly fragmented, and pricing pressure, new technologies, including the increasing adoption of artificial intelligence and machine learning ("AI/ML") offerings by our competitors, or other competitive dynamics could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our increased focus on the development and use of AI/ML technologies in our solutions and our business, as well as our potential failure to effectively implement, use, and market these technologies, may result in reputational harm or liability, or could otherwise adversely affect our business. We depend on data centers operated by or on behalf of Salesforce, AWS and other third parties, and any disruption in the operation of these facilities could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. We have and may continue to acquire or invest in companies, or pursue business partnerships, which may divert our managements attention or result in dilution to our stockholders, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions, investments or partnerships. Our customers are highly regulated. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us as a technology provider to FIs could adversely affect our business and results of operations, increase costs and impose constraints on the way we conduct our business. Any legal proceedings against us could adversely affect our operations and prospects, damage our reputation, and be costly and time-consuming to defend. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We derive most of our revenues from customers in the financial services industry, and any downturn or consolidation or decrease in technology spend in the financial services industry could adversely affect our business. Most of our revenues are derived from FIs whose industry has experienced significant pressure in recent years due to economic uncertainty, fluctuating interest rates, liquidity concerns and increased regulation. In the past, FIs have experienced consolidation, distress and failure, including notably recently in March 2023 when the FDIC took control of Silicon Valley Bank and Signature Bank due to liquidity concerns and a number of other FIs experienced turbulence and a precipitous decline in market value. It is possible these conditions may persist, deteriorate or reoccur. If, as a result of these or other factors, any of our customers merge with or are acquired by other entities, such as FIs that have internally developed banking technology solutions or that are not our customers or use our solutions less, we may lose business. Additionally, changes in management of our customers could result in delays or cancellations of the implementation of our solutions. It is also possible that the larger FIs that result from business combinations could have greater leverage in negotiating price or other terms with us or could decide to replace some or all of the elements of our solutions. Our business may also be materially and adversely affected by weak economic conditions in the financial services industry. Any downturn or prolonged disruption in the financial services industry may cause our customers to reduce their spending on technology or cloud-based banking solutions or to seek to terminate or renegotiate their contracts with us. Moreover, economic fluctuations caused by factors such as the U.S. Federal Reserve changing interest rates may cause potential new customers and existing customers to forego or delay purchasing our solutions or reduce the amount of spend with us, which would materially and adversely affect our business. Our future operating results are difficult to predict, in part because we do not have an extensive operating history at the current scale of our business, and we may not achieve our expected operating results in the future. As a result of our limited operating history at the current scale of our business, our ability to forecast our future operating results, including revenues, cash flows, and profitability, is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. We have encountered and will encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in the technology industry, such as the risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and others we may not be able to presently identify. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties are incorrect or change due to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results may differ materially from our expectations and our business may suffer. We have a history of losses, and while we have achieved profitability in a quarterly period, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a GAAP basis in the future. We began operations in late 2011 and have experienced net losses since inception. We generated net losses attributable to nCino of $102.7 million, $42.3 million, and $37.9 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023, 2024, and 2025, respectively. We had an accumulated deficit of $385.3 million at January 31, 2025. While we have been profitable on a GAAP basis for a quarter, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. We intend to continue to 9 Table of Contents support further growth and extend the functionality of our solutions in future periods. We will also continue to face increased costs associated with growth and the expansion of our customer base and the costs of being a public company. Our continuing efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenues enough to offset our increased operating expenses. We expect, depending on a number of factors, to continue to incur losses on a GAAP basis as we continue to invest in product development, and we cannot predict whether or when we will achieve or sustain profitability on a GAAP basis. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the value of our business and common stock may significantly decrease. If we are unable to attract new customers or continue to broaden our existing customers use of our solutions, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To increase our revenues, we will need to continue to attract new customers and succeed in having our current customers expand the use of our solutions across their institution. For example, our revenue growth strategy includes increased penetration of markets outside the U.S. as well as selling our solutions to existing and new customers, and failure in either respect would adversely affect our revenue growth. In addition, for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions with us on the same or more favorable terms to us when their existing subscription term expires. Our revenue growth rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer spending levels, customer dissatisfaction with our solutions, decreases in the number of users at our customers, changes in the type and size of our customers, pricing changes, competitive conditions, the loss of our customers to other companies, and general economic conditions. Our customers may also require fewer subscriptions for our solutions as their use may enable them to operate more efficiently over time. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our current customers will renew or expand their use of our solutions. If we are unable to sign new customers or retain or attract new business from current customers, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. As the market for cloud-based banking technology continues to develop, it may do so more slowly than we expect or changes in a way that we fail to anticipate. If that occurs, or we fail to market our solutions effectively, our sales would suffer and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Use of, and reliance on, cloud-based banking technology continues to evolve and we do not know whether FIs will continue to adopt cloud-based banking technology such as the nCino Platform in the future, or whether the market will change in ways we do not anticipate. Many FIs have invested substantial personnel and financial resources in legacy software, and these FIs may be reluctant, unwilling, or unable to convert from their existing systems to our solutions. Furthermore, these FIs may be reluctant, unwilling, or unable to use cloud-based banking technology due to various concerns, such as the security of their data and reliability of the delivery model. These concerns or other considerations may cause FIs to choose not to adopt cloud-based banking technology such as ours or to adopt them more slowly than we anticipate, either of which would adversely affect us. Our future success also depends on our ability to sell additional solutions and functionality to our current and prospective customers. As we create new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, these solutions and enhancements may not be attractive to customers. In addition, promoting and selling new and enhanced functionality may require increasingly costly sales and marketing efforts and if customers choose not to adopt this functionality, our business and results of operations could suffer. If FIs are unwilling or unable to transition from their legacy systems, or if the demand for our solutions does not meet our expectations, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may not be able to sustain our revenue growth rate in the future. Our revenues increased from $408.3 million for fiscal 2023 to $476.5 million for fiscal 2024 and to $540.7 million for fiscal 2025. However, we may not be able to sustain revenue growth consistent with our recent history, if at all. Our revenue growth in recent periods may not be indicative of our future performance. Furthermore, to the extent we grow in future periods, maintaining consistent rates of revenue growth may be difficult. Our revenue growth may also slow or even reverse in future periods due to a number of factors, which may include slowing demand for our solutions, our ability to successfully sell and implement new solutions, such as our retail solutions, increasing competition, decreasing growth of our overall market, the adoption of our new asset-based pricing model, our inability to attract and retain a sufficient number of FI customers, concerns over data security, our failure, for any reason, to capitalize on growth opportunities, or general economic conditions. If we are unable to maintain consistent revenue growth, our business could be adversely affected, the price of our common stock could decline or otherwise be volatile and it may be difficult for us to achieve and maintain profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations, including the levels of our revenues, gross margin, profitability, cash flow, and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future and, accordingly, period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful. Thus, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and may not fully or accurately reflect the underlying performance of our business. Further, while subscriptions with our customers generally include multi-year non-cancellable terms, in a limited number of contracts, customers have an option to buy out of the contract for a specified termination fee. If such customers exercise this buy-out option, or if we negotiate an early termination of a contract at a customers request, any termination fee would be recognized in full at the time of termination, which would favorably affect subscription revenues in that period and unfavorably affect subscription revenues in subsequent periods. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include, without limitation, those listed below: our ability to retain current customers or attract new customers; the activation, delay in activation, or cancellation of large blocks of users by customers; the timing of recognition of professional services revenues; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations, and infrastructure; acquisitions of our customers, to the extent the acquirer elects not to continue using our solutions or reduces subscriptions to our solutions; significant disruptions or distress in the FI industry; customer renewal rates; increases or decreases in the number of users licensed or pricing changes upon renewals of customer contracts (including as a result of our new asset-based pricing model); network outages or security breaches; general economic, industry, and market conditions; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; seasonal variations in sales of our solutions, which have historically been highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year; the timing and amount of litigation and litigation-related expenses; the timing and success of new product introductions by us or our competitors or any other change in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors, customers, or strategic partners; and the timing of expenses related to the development or acquisition of technologies or businesses and potential future charges for impairment of goodwill or intangible assets from acquired companies. We may not accurately predict the long-term rate of customer subscription renewals or adoption of our solutions, or any resulting impact on our revenues or operating results. We have recently adopted a new pricing model, which sets the pricing for our solutions primarily on the asset size of the FI customer, and began implementing it in fiscal 2025. While we believe this new model responds to how we have observed customers using our solutions and evolving market conditions, there is no assurance that our existing customers will 11 Table of Contents react favorably to it, or that potential new customers will adopt it. It is also possible that the new pricing model will not generate the revenues we expect from it for other reasons. Any of these factors could lead to an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial conditions and have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions for our solutions after the expiration of the initial or current subscription term, and our customers, if they choose to renew at all, may renew for fewer users or on less favorable pricing terms, particularly if they seek to negotiate alternatives to our asset-based pricing model. The historic average initial term of our customer agreements has been generally three to five years in length, billed annually in advance, and our fees and services have generally been non-cancelable and have not contained refund-type provisions. U.S. mortgage contracts are generally billed monthly in advance. Subscription arrangements that are cancelable generally have penalty clauses. Although we have observed some trends at our current scale with respect to customer subscription renewals, we cannot be certain of how actual renewal rates will compare to what we anticipate. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our pricing or our solutions or their ability to continue their operations or spending levels. In addition, large or influential FI customers may demand more favorable pricing or other contract terms from us. As a result, we may in the future be required to implement further changes to our pricing model, reduce our prices, or accept other unfavorable contract terms, any of which could adversely affect our revenues, gross margin, profitability, financial position, and/or cash flow. Our business faces significant risks from diverse security threats. A breach of our security or privacy measures or those we rely on could result in unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, customer or their clients data, which may materially and adversely impact our reputation, business, and results of operations. Certain elements of our solutions, particularly our analytics and mortgage solutions, process and store personally identifiable information (PII), such as banking and personal information of our customers clients, and we may also have access to PII during various stages of the implementation process or during the course of providing customer support. Furthermore, as we develop or acquire additional functionality, we may gain greater access to PII. We maintain policies, procedures, and technological safeguards designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of this information and our information technology systems. However, we and our third party service providers, frequently defend against and respond to data security incidents. We cannot entirely eliminate the risk of improper or unauthorized access to or disclosure of PII or other security or privacy events that impact the integrity or availability of PII or our systems and operations, or the related costs we may incur to mitigate the consequences from such events. Further, our products are flexible and complex software solutions and there is a risk that configurations of, or defects in, our solutions or errors in implementation could create vulnerabilities to security breaches. There may be continued unlawful attempts to disrupt or gain access to our information technology systems or the PII or other data of our customers or their clients that may disrupt our or our customers operations. In addition, because we leverage third-party providers, including cloud, software, data center, and other critical technology vendors to deliver our solutions to our customers and their clients, we rely heavily on the data security technology practices and policies adopted by these third-party providers. A vulnerability in a third-party providers software or systems, a failure of our third-party providers safeguards, policies or procedures, or a breach of a third-party providers software or systems could result in the compromise of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our systems or the data housed in our solutions. Cyberattacks and other malicious internet-based activity, including increased threats from the use of AI, continue to increase and evolve, and cloud-based providers of products and services have been and are expected to continue to be targeted. In addition to traditional computer hackers, malicious code (such as viruses and worms), phishing, employee theft or misuse, and denial-of-service attacks, sophisticated criminal networks as well as nation-state and nation-state supported actors now engage in attacks, including advanced persistent threat intrusions. Current or future criminal capabilities, discovery of existing or new vulnerabilities, and attempts to exploit those vulnerabilities or other developments, may compromise or breach our systems or solutions. In the event our or our third-party providers protection efforts are unsuccessful and our systems or solutions are compromised, we could suffer substantial harm. A security breach could result in operational disruptions, loss, compromise or corruption of customer or client data or data we rely on to provide our solutions, including our analytics initiatives and offerings that impair our ability to provide our solutions and meet our customers requirements resulting in decreased revenues and otherwise materially negatively impacting our financial results. Also, our reputation could suffer irreparable harm, causing our current and prospective customers to decline to use our solutions in the future. Further, we could be forced to expend significant financial and operational resources in response to a security breach, including repairing system damage, increasing security protection costs by deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, and defending 12 Table of Contents against and resolving legal and regulatory claims, all of which could be costly and divert resources and the attention of our management and key personnel away from our business operations. Federal and state regulations may require us or our customers to notify individuals of data security or privacy incidents involving certain types of personal data or information technology systems, and those laws and regulations continue to evolve to add more reporting requirements on faster timelines. Security compromises experienced by others in our industry, our customers, or us may lead to public disclosures and widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to elect not to renew or expand their use of our solutions, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other actions or liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, some of our customers contractually require notification of data security compromises and include representations and warranties in their contracts with us that our solutions comply with certain legal and technical standards related to data security and privacy and meets certain service levels. In certain of our contracts, a data security compromise or operational disruption impacting us or one of our critical vendors, or system unavailability or damage due to other circumstances, may constitute a material breach and give rise to a customers right to terminate their contract with us. In these circumstances, it may be difficult or impossible to cure such a breach in order to prevent customers from potentially terminating their contracts with us. Furthermore, although our customer contracts typically include limitations on our potential liability, there can be no assurance that such limitations of liability would be adequate. We also cannot be sure that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions will be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more claims, or that our insurers will not deny or attempt to deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more claims against us, the inadequacy or denial of coverage under our insurance policies, litigation to pursue claims under our policies, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or coinsurance requirements, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. As cyber threats have evolved and continue to evolve, vulnerabilities in our solutions and information technology systems have been and will in the future be detected, and we expect to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our layers of defense to remediate such vulnerabilities. System enhancements and updates create risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones, including risks associated with the effectiveness of our, our customers' and our third-party providers' software development lifecycles. Due to the complexity and interconnectedness of our systems and solutions, the process of enhancing our layers of defense, including addressing hardware-based vulnerabilities, can itself create a risk of systems disruptions and security issues. Customer utilization of older versions of our solutions can increase the risk and complexity of security vulnerabilities and the resources and time required to address them. Fundamental elements of the nCino Platform are built on the Salesforce Platform and we rely on our agreement with Salesforce to provide this solution to our customers. Fundamental elements of the nCino Platform, including our client onboarding, loan origination, and deposit account opening solutions, are built on the Salesforce Platform and we rely on our agreement with Salesforce to use the Salesforce Platform in conjunction with these solutions, including for hosting infrastructure and data center operations. Any termination of our relationship with Salesforce would result in a materially adverse impact on our business model. Our agreement with Salesforce expires on January 31, 2031, unless earlier terminated by either party in the event of the other partys material breach, bankruptcy, change in control in favor of a direct competitor, or intellectual property infringement, and thereafter automatically renews for additional one-year periods unless notice of non-renewal is provided by either party. If we are unable to renew our agreement with Salesforce, there would be, absent a termination for cause, a wind-down period during which existing customers would be able to continue using the nCino Platform in conjunction with the Salesforce Platform, but we would be unable to provide this solution to new customers and could be limited in our ability to allow current customers to add additional users. In addition, if we are unable to renew our agreement with Salesforce upon its expiration, our customers would need to obtain a separate subscription from Salesforce in order to access the nCino Platform. This could cause a significant delay in the time required to enter into agreements with customers, place us and our customers at a disadvantage in negotiating with Salesforce, and lead customers not to renew or enter into agreements with us. We also cannot assure you that the pricing or other terms in any renewal with Salesforce would be favorable to us, and if they are not, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents In addition, Salesforce has the right to terminate their agreement with us in certain circumstances, including in the event of a material breach by us. If Salesforce terminates our agreement for cause, it would not be required to provide the wind-down period described above. We are also required to indemnify Salesforce for claims made against Salesforce by a third party alleging that the nCino Platform infringes the intellectual property rights of such third party. An expiration or termination of our agreement with Salesforce would cause us to incur significant time and expense to acquire rights to, or develop, a replacement solution and we may not be successful in these efforts, which could cause the nCino Platform to become obsolete. Even if we were to successfully acquire or develop a replacement solution, some customers may decide not to adopt such solution and may, as a result, decide to use a different solution. If we were unsuccessful in acquiring or developing a replacement solution or acquire or develop a replacement solution that our customers do not adopt, our business, results of operations, and brand would be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, there are no exclusivity arrangements in place with Salesforce that would prevent them from developing their own offerings that compete directly with ours, acquiring a company with offerings similar to ours, or investing greater resources in our competitors. While we believe our relationship with Salesforce is strong, Salesforce competing with us could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Privacy and data security concerns, data collection and transfer restrictions and related domestic or foreign regulations may limit the use and adoption of our solutions and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Personal privacy, information security, and data protection are significant issues in the U.S., the European Union (EU), the United Kingdom ("UK") and a number of other jurisdictions where we offer our solutions. The regulatory framework governing the collection, processing, storage, and use of certain information, particularly financial and other PII, is rapidly evolving. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with applicable privacy, security, or data protection laws, regulations, or industry standards may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We expect that there will continue to be new proposed and adopted laws, regulations, and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection, and information security in the U.S., the EU, and other jurisdictions in which we operate. For instance, the California Consumer Privacy Act (the "CCPA") became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents expanded rights to access and delete their personal information, receive detailed information about how their personal information is used and shared by requiring covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers (as that term is broadly defined), and provide such consumers rights to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. The CCPA provides for potential civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. The California Privacy Rights Act (the "CPRA"), which expands the CCPA, passed in November 2020 and went into effect on January 1, 2023, potentially requiring still to be determined additional compliance investment and potential business process changes. Among other things, the CPRA imposes additional data protection obligations on companies doing business in California, including additional consumer rights processes, limitations on data uses, new audit requirements for higher risk data, and opt outs for certain uses of sensitive data. It has also created a new California data protection agency authorized to issue substantive regulations which could result in increased privacy and information security enforcement. The CCPA includes a number of limited exceptions, including an exception for data that is collected, processed, sold or disclosed pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley-Act (GLBA) and an exemption that includes some types of data covered by the Fair Credit Recording Act (FCRA).These exceptions, however, do not apply to the private cause of action afforded to individuals for negligent information security incidents.Additionally, the CCPA applies to the personal information of California residents collected in the employment, job applicant and business-to-business settings. Twenty U.S. states have enacted comprehensive privacy laws and several others are proposing and enacting laws and regulations that impose obligations similar to the CCPA or that otherwise involve significant obligations and restrictions. Although many such state laws do not apply to FIs (or to data) subject to the GLBA, and some exempt all commercial- and employment-related data, these are evolving laws and regulations that add layers of complexity to compliance in the U.S. market. If passed, such laws will require additional resources to ensure compliance, and may have potentially conflicting requirements that would make compliance challenging. GLBA and FCRA impose privacy and information security requirements on FIs, including obligations to protect and safeguard consumers nonpublic personal information and creditworthiness information, respectively, and limitations on the use and disclosure of such information.The GLBA requires appropriate administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security, confidentiality, integrity, availability and the proper disposal of nonpublic personal information, and the FCRA imposes similar information security requirements regarding the protection of creditworthiness information. 14 Table of Contents The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and many state attorneys general are interpreting existing federal and state consumer protection laws to impose evolving standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of health-related and other personal information and in particular health information. Courts may also adopt the standards for fair information practices promulgated by the FTC, which concern consumer notice, choice, security and access. Consumer protection laws require us to publish statements that describe how we handle personal information and choices individuals may have about the way we handle their personal information. If such information that we publish is considered untrue, we may be subject to government claims of unfair or deceptive trade practices, which could lead to significant liabilities and consequences. Furthermore, according to the FTC, violating consumers privacy rights or failing to take appropriate steps to keep consumers personal information secure may constitute unfair acts or practices in or affecting commerce in violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act. Privacy and cybersecurity laws continue to evolve to impose ever stricter standards for the collection, use, dissemination and security of personally identifiable information, including financial information. Actual, potential, or perceived violations of such laws could result in regulatory investigations, fines, orders to cease/change our use of such technologies and processing of personal data, as well as civil claims including class actions, reputational damage and ongoing compliance costs, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, federal, and state regulation around AI may be enacted in the near future. Similarly, the European Economic Area (the "EEA") (comprised of the EU Member States and Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway) adopted the General Data Protection Regulation (2016/679) (the "EU GDPR") in May 2018 and the UK implemented the EU GDPR by virtue of section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 which sits alongside the UK Data Protection Act 2018 (known as the "UK GDPR", and together with the "EU GDPR", the "GDPR"). The GDPR has a direct effect where an entity is established in the EEA or the UK and has extra-territorial effect where an entity established outside of the EEA or UK processes personal data in relation to the offering of goods or services to individuals in the EEA and/or the UK or the monitoring of their behavior. The GDPR imposes a number of obligations on controllers, including, among others: (i) accountability and transparency requirements which require controllers to demonstrate and record compliance with the GDPR and to provide more detailed information to data subjects regarding processing; (ii) enhanced requirements for obtaining valid consent where consent is the lawful basis for processing; (iii) obligations to consider data protection as any new products or services are developed and to limit the amount of personal data processed; (iv) obligations to comply with data protection rights of data subjects including a right of access to and rectification of personal data, a right to obtain restriction of processing or to object to processing of personal data and a right to ask for a copy of personal data to be provided to a third party in a useable format and erasing personal data in certain circumstances and the right not to be subject to solely automated decision-making; (v) obligations to implement appropriate technical and organizational security measures to safeguard personal data; and (vi) obligations to report certain personal data breaches to the relevant supervisory authority without undue delay (and no later than 72 hours where feasible) and affected individuals, where the personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to their rights and freedoms. Processors are required to notify the controller without undue delay after becoming aware of a personal data breach. In addition, the EU GDPR prohibits the international transfer of personal data from the EEA to countries outside of the EEA unless made to a country deemed to have adequate data privacy laws by the European Commission or a data transfer mechanism in accordance with the EU GDPR has been put in place (e.g., Standard Contractual Clauses or SCCs) or a derogation under the EU GDPR can be relied on. In certain cases (e.g. where transfers are made in reliance on SCCs) it is also necessary to carry out a transfer impact assessment ("TIA") which, among other things, assesses laws governing access to personal data in the recipient country and considers whether supplementary measures that provide privacy protections additional to those provided under SCCs will need to be implemented to ensure an essentially equivalent level of data protection to that afforded in the EEA. On July 10, 2023, the European Commission adopted its Final Implementing Decision granting the U.S. adequacy (Adequacy Decision) for EU-US transfers of personal data for entities self-certified to the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (DPF). Entities relying on EU SCCs for transfers to the U.S. are also able to rely on the analysis in the Adequacy Decision as support for their TIA regarding the equivalence of U.S. national security safeguards and redress. The UK GDPR also imposes similar restrictions on transfers of personal data from the UK to jurisdictions that the UK government does not consider adequate. The UK Government has published its own form of the EU SCCs, known as the International Data Transfer Agreement and an International Data Transfer Addendum to the new SCCs. The UK Information Commissioner's Office ("ICO") has also published its own version of the TIA, although entities may choose to adopt either the EU or UK-style TIA. Further, on September 21, 2023, the UK Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology established a UK-U.S. data bridge (i.e., a UK equivalent of the Adequacy Decision) and adopted UK regulations to implement the UK-U.S. data bridge. Personal data may now be transferred from the UK under the UK-U.S. data bridge through the UK extension to the DPF to organizations self-certified under the UK extension to DPF. This may have implications for our cross-border data flows and may result in additional compliance costs. 15 Table of Contents Data protection supervisory authorities have the power under the GDPR to (amongst other things) impose fines of up to 20 million (under the EU GDPR) or 17.5 million (under the UK GDPR) or up to 4% of the annual global revenue of the noncompliant company, whichever is greater, for serious violations of certain of the GDPRs requirements. Data subjects also have a right to compensation, as a result of an organization's breach of the GDPR which has affected them for financial or non-financial losses (e.g., distress). Complying with the GDPR may cause us to incur substantial operational and compliance costs or require us to change our business practices. Despite our efforts to bring practices into compliance with the GDPR, we may not be successful either due to internal or external factors such as resource allocation limitations or a lack of vendor cooperation. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities, regulators, customers, data subjects, suppliers, vendors or other parties. Further, there is a risk that the measures will not be implemented correctly or that individuals within the business will not be fully compliant with the new procedures. If there are breaches of these measures, we could face significant administrative and monetary sanctions as well as reputational damage which may have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition and prospects. From a cybersecurity perspective, the GDPR does not provide for a specific set of cybersecurity requirements or measures to be implemented but rather requires a controller or processor to implement appropriate cyber and data security measures in accordance with the then-current risk, the state of the art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing. The GDPR however does explicitly require that controllers notify personal data breaches as described above. On January 17, 2023, the EU Network and Information Systems Security 2 Directive (NISD2) entered into force. Member States had until October 17, 2024 to transpose NISD2 into EU Member State law. The European Commission initiated infringement procedures, by sending letters of formal notice to 23 Member States for failing to fully transpose NISD2 by this deadline. Under the NISD2, stringent cybersecurity and incident reporting requirements are imposed on essential and important entities, which include information and communication technology (ICT) managed service providers. NISD2 states that any maximum fine which national implementing law provides for should at least be set at 10 million or 2% of total worldwide turnover, whichever is higher, where essential entities are concerned. Other sanctions may include (i) a temporary suspension to provide services in the EU (by suspending relevant authorizations/certifications); (ii) an order to make public certain elements of the infringement and/or inform customers; and (iii) injunctions to immediately cease infringing conduct. Importantly, NISD2 also provides that senior members of staff can be held personally liable, and face administrative fines or be temporarily suspended from exercising managerial functions at the legal representative or chief executive officer level. The EU Digital Operational Resilience Act (DORA), which applied from January 17, 2025, imposes regulatory obligations to reinforce the digital operational resilience of entities operating in the financial services industry, and to adequately manage and remediate risks related to the engagement of ICT third-party service providers. DORA only imposes direct regulatory obligations on ICT third-party service providers that are considered critical within the meaning of DORA. Non-critical ICT third-party service providers are only indirectly impacted by DORA, by virtue of the mandatory contractual terms that DORA requires financial entities to implement with ICT third-party service providers. DORA does not provide for minimum or maximum monetary sanctions but empowers EU Member State competent authorities to enforce DORA and determine the appropriate sanction on the basis of the factors set out in DORA, including the gravity and duration of the infringement. Sanctions may be administrative or criminal in nature, and DORA also provides that individual members of the management body can be held personally liable for any non-compliance. We cannot yet fully determine the impact these or future laws, rules, and regulations may have on our business or operations. Any such laws, rules, and regulations may be inconsistent among different jurisdictions, subject to differing interpretations or may conflict with our current or future practices. Additionally, we may be bound by contractual requirements applicable to our collection, use, processing, and disclosure of various types of information including financial and PII, and may be bound by, or voluntarily comply with, self-regulatory or other industry standards relating to these matters that may further change as laws, rules, and regulations evolve. Any failure or perceived failure by us, or any third parties with which we do business, to comply with these laws, rules, and regulations, or with other obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject, may result in actions or other claims against us by governmental entities or private actors, the expenditure of substantial costs, time, and other resources, or the incurrence of fines, penalties, or other liabilities. There is also a risk that we could be impacted by a cybersecurity incident that results in loss or unauthorized disclosure of personal data, potentially resulting in us facing harms similar to those described above. In addition, any such action, particularly to the extent we were found to be guilty of violations or otherwise liable for damages, would damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Because we recognize subscription revenues over the term of the contract, downturns or upturns in our business may not be reflected in our results of operations until future periods. We generally recognize subscription revenues ratably over the terms of our customer contracts. Most of the subscription revenues we report each quarter are derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions activated in previous quarters. Consequently, a reduction in activated subscriptions in any single quarter may only have a small impact on our subscription revenues for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our subscription revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales or market acceptance of our solutions may not be apparent in our current-quarter revenues or reflected in our results of operations until future periods. The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive and highly fragmented, and pricing pressure, new technologies or other competitive dynamics could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently compete with providers of technology and services in the financial services industry, primarily point solution vendors that focus on building functionality that competes with specific components of our solutions. From time to time, we also compete with systems internally developed by FIs. Many of our competitors have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their systems than we can, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have and have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. We may also face competition from new companies entering our markets, which may include large established businesses that decide to develop, market or resell cloud-based banking technology, acquire one of our competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors or with Salesforce. In addition, new companies entering our markets may choose to offer cloud-based banking solutions at little or no additional cost to the customer by bundling them with their existing solutions, including adjacent banking technologies. Competition from these new entrants may make attracting new customers and retaining our current customers more difficult, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, as we continue to increase building AI/ML into many of our solutions, we face more competition as AI/ML technologies are increasingly integrated into the markets in which we compete. New AI/ML offerings may disrupt workforce needs and negatively impact demand for our solutions, or our competitors may be able to incorporate AI/ML into their offerings more efficiently or successfully than we are able to incorporate it into our solutions, and thereby achieve greater and faster adoption. Even if our AI/ML solutions are more effective than the products and services that our competitors offer, potential customers might select competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our services. If we are unable to compete in this environment, sales and renewals of the nCino Platform could decline and adversely affect our business and results of operations. With the introduction of new technologies and potential new entrants into the cloud-based banking technology market, we expect competition to intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and achieve profitability. Our increased focus on the development and use of AI/ML technologies in our solutions and our business, as well as our potential failure to effectively implement, use, and market these technologies, may result in reputational harm or liability, or could otherwise adversely affect our business. We envision a future where AI/ML is embedded throughout nCinos platform to help our customers maximize their productivity. We increasingly have incorporated and may continue to incorporate AI/ML solutions and features into our solutions, and otherwise within our business, and these solutions and features continue to become more vital to our operations or to our future growth over time. There can be no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits from AI/ML, or at all, and we may fail to properly implement or market our AI/ML solutions and features. The legal, regulatory, and policy environments around AI/ML are evolving rapidly, and we may become subject to new legal and other obligations in connection with our use of AI/ML, which could require us to make significant changes to our policies and practices, necessitating expenditure of significant time, expense, and other resources. For example, in the EU/UK, laws and regulation regarding AI are developing at a fast pace. On August 1, 2024 the EU's standalone law to govern the offering and use of AI systems in the EU (the "AI Act") entered into force - it will become enforceable in a gradual manner between 2025-2027 depending on the specific requirement and the UK has not to date adopted dedicated AI legislation instead looking to rely on a principles-based, sector-specific approach to AI regulation. However, in July 2024 it was announced that new AI regulation would in fact be introduced for certain AI. Moreover, states such as Colorado, Utah, and California, have passed or are considering legislation or regulation governing development or use of AI technologies, supplementing the existing consumer 17 Table of Contents protection and other regulatory guidance that may apply to the use of AI technologies in our business, and which may impact our use of technology. More generally, our use of AI/ML technologies may present additional risks and challenges that could affect their adoption and therefore our business. For example, the development of our AI/ML solutions may present ethical or social issues. If we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact privacy, employment, or in other social contexts, we may experience new or enhanced governmental or regulatory scrutiny, brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability, especially in the context of an environment with heightened geopolitical volatility. Inadequate or ineffective AI/ML development, deployment, content labeling or governance by us or others that result in controversy could also impair the acceptance of AI/ML solutions or result in unintended performance of the services. This in turn could undermine confidence in the decisions, predictions, analysis or other content that our AI/ML solutions produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability and brand or reputational harm. The rapid evolution of AI/ML will require the application of resources to develop, test and maintain our products and services to help ensure that AI/ML is implemented ethically in order to minimize unintended, harmful impact. Uncertainty around new and emerging AI/ML applications such as generative AI content creation and AI/ML agents will require additional investment in compliance, governance and the licensing or development of proprietary datasets, machine learning models and systems to test for accuracy, bias and other variables, which are often complex, may be costly and could impact our results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the development of generative AI/ML solutions brings additional risks and responsibility. Known risks of generative AI/ML currently include risks related to accuracy, bias, toxicity, privacy and security and data provenance. For example, AI/ML technologies, including generative AI, may create content that appears correct but is factually inaccurate or flawed, or contains copyrighted or other protected material, and if our customers or others use this flawed or protected content to their detriment, or the owners of such copyrighted material seek to enforce their rights, we may be exposed to brand or reputational harm, competitive harm and/or legal liability. Developing, testing and deploying AI/ML systems may also increase the cost profile of our offerings due to the nature of the computing costs involved in such systems. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, or if we incur excessive expenses in our efforts to do so, our reputation, business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. We depend on data centers operated by or on behalf of Salesforce, Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), and other third parties, and any disruption in the operation of these facilities could adversely affect our business and subject us to liability. Our solutions are primarily hosted in data centers operated by or on behalf of Salesforce, AWS, and other third parties, and we do not control the operation of these data centers. Problems associated with these data centers could adversely affect the experience of our customers. Any disruptions or other operational performance problems with these data centers could result in material interruptions in our services, adversely affect our reputation and results of operations, and subject us to liability. We have and may acquire or invest in companies, or pursue business partnerships, which may divert our managements attention or result in dilution to our stockholders, and we may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions, investments, or partnerships. From time to time, we consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of, or investments in, businesses, technologies, services, solutions, and other assets. For example, in fiscal 2025 we completed three acquisitions and have already announced one in fiscal 2026. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our solutions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing, or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult, and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. For instance, we have incurred significant costs in connection with our fiscal 2025 acquisitions. In addition, nCino has limited experience in acquiring other businesses. If an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business, and financial position may suffer. We may not be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets, we may incorrectly estimate the value of an acquisition target, and we may not be successful in entering into an agreement with any particular target. If we are successful in acquiring additional businesses, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including: our inability to integrate or benefit from acquired technologies or services; unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; incurrence of acquisition-related costs; 18 Table of Contents difficulty integrating the technology, accounting systems, operations, control environments, and personnel of the acquired business and integrating the acquired business or its employees into our culture; difficulties and additional expenses associated with supporting legacy solutions and infrastructure of the acquired business; difficulty converting the customers of the acquired business to our solutions and contract terms, including disparities in terms; additional costs for the support or professional services model of the acquired company; diversion of managements attention and other resources; adverse effects to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers; the issuance of additional equity securities that could dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders; incurrence of debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; incurrence of substantial liabilities; difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired business; and adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation, or deferred compensation charges. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. In the future, if our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our customers are highly regulated. Our failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to us as a technology provider to FIs could adversely affect our business and results of operations, increase costs, and impose constraints on the way we conduct our business. Our customers and prospective customers are highly regulated and are generally required to comply with stringent regulations in connection with performing business functions that our solutions address. As a provider of technology to FIs, we have been, and expect to continue to be, examined on a periodic basis by various regulatory agencies and may be required to review certain of our suppliers and partners. In addition, while much of our operations are not directly subject to the same regulations applicable to FIs, we are generally obligated to our customers to provide software solutions and maintain internal systems and processes that comply with certain federal and state regulations applicable to them. For example, as a result of obligations under some of our customer contracts, we are required to comply with certain provisions of the GLBA related to the privacy of consumer information and may be subject to other privacy and data security laws because of the solutions we provide to FIs. The GLBA includes limitations on FI's disclosure of nonpublic personal information about a consumer to nonaffiliated third parties, in certain circumstances requiring FIs to limit the use and further disclosure of nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties and requiring FIs to safeguard nonpublic personal information. Banking regulations for information security and breach notification also impose obligations on us due to our relationships with customers that increase our information security obligations and customers may impose additional information security standards upon us, such as those relating to the New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation (Cybersecurity Regulation) or the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Insurance Data Security Model Law, which are both intended to establish standards for data security and standards for the investigation and notification of data breaches applicable to insurance licensees.As of February 1, 2025, a version of the Insurance Data Security Model law has been adopted in more than 25 jurisdictions. Both the Cybersecurity Regulation and Insurance Data Security Model Law require oversight of third-party service providers with respect to information security, among other things. Matters subject to review and examination by federal and state FI regulatory agencies and external auditors include our internal information technology controls in connection with our performance of data processing services, the agreements giving rise to those processing activities, and the design of our solutions. Any inability to satisfy these examinations and maintain compliance with applicable regulations could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, including attracting and maintaining customers. If we have to make changes to our 19 Table of Contents internal processes and solutions as result of these regulations, we could be required to invest substantial additional time and funds and divert time and resources from other corporate purposes to remedy any identified deficiency. The evolving, complex, and often unpredictable regulatory environment in which our customers operate could result in our failure to provide compliant solutions, which could result in customers not purchasing our solutions or terminating their contracts with us or the imposition of fines or other liabilities for which we may be responsible. In addition, federal, state, and/or foreign agencies may attempt to further regulate our activities in the future which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any legal proceedings against us could adversely affect our operations and prospects, damage our reputation, and be costly and time-consuming to defend. In the future, we may become subject, from time to time, to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes or employment claims made by current or former employees. Legal proceedings might result in damages and harm to our operations and prospects, reputational damage, substantial costs, and may divert managements attention and resources, which might adversely impact our business, overall financial condition, and results of operations. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Moreover, any negative impact to our reputation will not be adequately covered by any insurance recovery. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, thereby reducing our results of operations and leading analysts or potential investors to reduce their expectations of our performance, which could reduce the value of our common stock. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain it as we grow, particularly given our recent transition to a new Chief Executive Officer, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be adversely affected. We believe our corporate culture is one of our fundamental strengths, as we believe it enables us to attract and retain top talent and deliver superior results for our customers. As we grow, we may find it difficult to preserve our corporate culture, which could reduce our ability to innovate and operate effectively. In turn, the failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to attract, recruit, integrate and retain employees, continue to perform at current levels and effectively execute our business strategy. Our board appointed Sean Desmond as our new Chief Executive Officer, effective February 1, 2025, and Pierre Naud resigned as Chief Executive Officer, a position he had held since nCino's inception. Mr. Naud continues to serve as Executive Chairman. As with any other company transitioning from a long-serving Chief Executive Officer, it will be important to maintain the innovation, creativity, teamwork and other elements essential to the continued growth of our business under new leadership. Any failure to do so may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. We may encounter implementation challenges, including in situations in which we rely on SIs, which would materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may face unexpected challenges related to the complexity of our customers implementation and configuration requirements. Implementation of our solutions may be delayed or expenses may increase when customers have unexpected data, software, or technology challenges, or unanticipated business requirements, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers and our operating results. In general, the revenues related to implementation and other professional services we provide are recognized on a proportional performance basis, and delays and difficulties in these engagements could result in losses on these contracts. In addition, our customers often require complex acceptance testing related to the implementation of our solutions. We also leverage the services of SIs, including Accenture, Deloitte, PwC, and West Monroe Partners, among others, to implement and configure the nCino Platform for our larger FI customers, while we have historically performed professional services for smaller FIs ourselves. While SI partners generally contract directly with our customers, any failure or delay by the SI partners we work with in providing adequate service and support would likely adversely affect our brand and reputation. For implementations we conduct ourselves, project delays may result in recognizing revenues later than expected. Further, because we do not fully control our customers implementation schedules, if our customers do not allocate the internal resources necessary to meet implementation timelines or if there are unanticipated implementation delays or difficulties, our ability to take customers live and the overall customer experience could be adversely affected. We rely on existing customers to act as references for prospective customers, and difficulties in implementation and configuration could therefore adversely 20 Table of Contents affect our ability to attract new customers. Any difficulties or delays in implementation processes could cause customers to delay or forego future purchases of our solutions. We have experienced rapid growth, and if we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service and customer satisfaction, or adequately address competitive challenges, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since our inception, our business has grown rapidly, which has resulted in a large increase in our employee headcount, expansion of our infrastructure, enhancement of our internal systems, and other significant changes and additional complexities. Our revenues increased from $408.3 million for fiscal 2023 to $476.5 million for fiscal 2024 and to $540.7 million for fiscal 2025. Our total number of employees increased from 436 as of January 31, 2018 to 1,833 as of January 31, 2025. Managing and sustaining a growing workforce and customer base geographically-dispersed in the U.S. and internationally requires substantial management effort, infrastructure, and operational capabilities. To support our growth, we must continue to improve our management resources and our operational and financial controls and systems, and these improvements may increase our expenses more than anticipated and result in a more complex business. We also have to expand and enhance the capabilities of our sales, relationship management, implementation, customer service, research and development, and other personnel to support our growth and continue to achieve high levels of customer service and satisfaction. Our success depends on our ability to plan for and manage this growth effectively. If we fail to anticipate and manage our growth or are unable to continue to provide high levels of customer service, our reputation, as well as our business and results of operations, could be materially and adversely affected. Defects, errors, or other performance problems in our solutions could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us, impair our ability to sell our solutions, and subject us to substantial liability. Our solutions are complex and may contain defects or errors when implemented or when new functionality is released. Despite extensive testing, from time to time we have discovered, and may in the future discover, defects or errors in our solutions. Any performance problems or defects in our solutions may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Defects, errors, or other performance problems or disruptions in service to provide bug fixes or upgrades, whether in connection with day-to-day operations or otherwise, could be costly for us, damage our customers businesses, and harm our reputation. In addition, if we have any such errors, defects, or other performance problems, our customers could seek to terminate their contracts, elect not to renew their subscriptions, delay or withhold payment, or make claims against us. Any of these actions could result in liability, lost business, increased insurance costs, difficulty in collecting accounts receivable, costly litigation, or adverse publicity. Errors, defects, or other problems could also result in reduced sales or a loss of, or delay in, the market acceptance of our solutions. If we fail to accurately anticipate and respond to rapid changes in the industry in which we operate, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed. The financial services industry is subject to rapid change and the introduction of new technologies to meet the needs of this industry will continue to have a significant effect on competitive conditions in our market. If we are unable to successfully expand our product offerings beyond our current solutions, our customers could migrate to competitors who may offer a broader or more attractive range of products and services. For example, in fiscal 2025, we launched our Commercial Onboarding and Account Opening solution and we may fail to achieve market acceptance of this offering. Unexpected delays in releasing new or enhanced versions of our solutions, or errors following their release, could result in loss of sales, delay in market acceptance, or customer claims against us, any of which could adversely affect our business. The success of any new solution depends on several factors, including timely completion, adequate quality testing, and market acceptance. We may not be able to enhance aspects of our solutions successfully or introduce and gain market acceptance of new solutions or improvements in a timely manner, or at all. Additionally, we must continually modify and enhance our solutions to keep pace with changes in software solutions, database technology, and evolving technical standards and interfaces. Uncertainties related to our ability to introduce and improve functionality, announcements or introductions of a new or updated solution, or modifications by our competitors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We leverage third-party software, content, and services for use with our solutions. Performance issues, errors and defects, or failure to successfully integrate or license necessary third-party software, content, or services, could cause delays, errors, or 21 Table of Contents failures of our solutions, increases in our expenses, and reductions in our sales, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We use software and content licensed from, and services provided by, a variety of third parties in connection with the operation of our solutions. Any performance issues, errors, bugs, or defects in third-party software, content, or services could result in errors or a failure of our solutions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In the future, we might need to license other software, content, or services to enhance our solutions and meet evolving customer demands and requirements. Any limitations in our ability to use third-party software, content, or services could significantly increase our expenses and otherwise result in delays, a reduction in functionality, or errors or failures of our solutions until equivalent technology or content is either developed by us or, if available, identified, obtained through purchase or license, and integrated into our solutions. In addition, third-party licenses may expose us to increased risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, and our inability to generate revenues from new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs, all of which may increase our expenses and materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may fail to successfully expand internationally. In addition, sales to customers outside the U.S. or with international operations expose us to risks inherent in international sales, which may include a marked increase in expenses. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2023, 2024, and 2025, sales to customers outside the U.S. accounted for 15.1%, 18.7% and 21.5%, respectively, of our total revenues. A key element of our growth strategy is to further expand our international operations and worldwide customer base. We have expended significant resources to build out our sales and professional services organizations outside of the U.S. and we may not realize a suitable return on this investment in the near future, if at all. We have limited operating experience in international markets, and we cannot assure you that our international expansion efforts will be successful. Our experience in the U.S. may not be relevant to our ability to expand in any international market. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the U.S. Export control regulations in the U.S. may increasingly be implicated in our operations as we expand internationally. These regulations may limit the export of our solutions and provision of our solutions outside of the U.S., or may require export authorizations, including by license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorizations, including annual or semi-annual reporting and the filing of an encryption registration. Changes in export or import laws, or corresponding sanctions, may delay the introduction and sale of our solutions in international markets, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, regions, governments, persons, or entities altogether, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are also subject to various domestic and international anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other similar anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their employees and intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing improper payments or benefits to officials and other recipients for improper purposes. Although we take precautions to prevent violations of these laws, our exposure for violating these laws increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we face risks in doing business internationally that could adversely affect our business, including: unanticipated costs; the need to localize and adapt our solutions for specific countries; complying with varying and sometimes conflicting data privacy laws and regulations; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including employment laws and regulations; unstable regional, economic, or political conditions; different pricing environments, longer sales cycles, and collections issues; new and different sources of competition; 22 Table of Contents weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the U.S. and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the U.S.; laws and business practices favoring local competitors; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting, and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, and anti-bribery laws and regulations; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; restrictions on the transfer of funds; and adverse tax consequences. Our international contracts often provide for payment denominated in local currencies, and the majority of our local costs are denominated in local currencies. Therefore, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies may impact our results of operations when translated into U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in currency hedging activities to limit the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of our senior leadership team, and the loss of any member of this team could adversely affect our business. Competition for executive officers, software developers, sales personnel, and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing, and managing cloud-based software, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals. Our principal operations are in Wilmington, North Carolina, where the pool of potential employees with the skills we need is more limited than it may be in larger markets, and we are sometimes required to induce prospective employees to relocate. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects could be severely harmed. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the actual and potential value of the equity awards they receive as part of their overall compensation. Thus, if the perceived value or future value of our stock declines, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees may be adversely affected. Failure to effectively expand our sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base. Increasing our customer base and expanding customer adoption within and across business lines will depend, to a significant extent, on our ability to effectively expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally for the foreseeable future. We believe that there is significant competition for experienced sales professionals with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Newly hired employees require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity and they may not become as productive as quickly as we expect, if at all. Further, we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. Our business will be adversely affected if our sales expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenues. If we fail to provide effective customer training on our solutions and high-quality customer support, our business and reputation would suffer. Effective customer training and high-quality, ongoing customer support are critical to the successful marketing, sale, and adoption of our solutions and for the renewal of existing customer contracts. As we grow our customer base, we will need to further invest in and expand our customer support and training organization, which could strain our team and infrastructure and reduce profit margins. If we do not help our customers adopt our solutions, quickly resolve any post-implementation matters, and provide effective ongoing customer support and training, our ability to expand sales to existing and future customers and our reputation would be adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to effectively integrate our solutions with other systems used by our customers, or if there are performance issues with such third-party systems, our solutions will not operate effectively and our business and reputation will be adversely affected. Our solutions integrate with other third-party systems used by our customers, including core processing systems. We do not have formal arrangements with many of these third-party providers regarding our access to their application program interfaces to enable these customer integrations. If we are unable to effectively integrate with third-party systems, our customers operations may be disrupted, which may result in disputes with customers, negatively impact customer satisfaction and harm our business. If the software of such third-party providers has performance or other problems, such issues may reflect poorly on us and the adoption and renewal of our solutions, and our business and reputation may be harmed. Our sales cycle can be unpredictable, time-consuming and costly. Our sales process involves educating prospective customers and existing customers about the benefits and technical capabilities of our solutions. Prospective customers often undertake a prolonged evaluation process, which typically involves not only our solutions, but also those of our competitors. Our sales cycles are typically lengthy, generally ranging from 6 to 9 for smaller FIs and 12 to 18 months or more for larger FIs. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales and marketing efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Events affecting our customers businesses may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, contributing to more unpredictability in our business and results of operations. As a result of these factors, we may face greater costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability in the future. Failure to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technologies. To safeguard these rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws and contractual protections in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, all of which provide only limited protection and may not now or in the future provide us with a competitive advantage. As of January 31, 2025, we had 12 issued patents relating to the nCino Platform in the U.S. Any patents that may issue in the future from our pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection and may not be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. We have registered the nCino name and logo in the U.S. and certain other countries and we have registrations and/or pending applications for additional marks including nIQ in the U.S. and certain other countries. However, we cannot assure you that any future trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We also license software from third parties for integration into our solutions, including open source software and other software available on commercially reasonable terms. We cannot assure you that such third parties will maintain such software or continue to make it available. We also rely on confidentiality agreements, consulting agreements, work-for-hire agreements, and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, and others. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and trade secrets, unauthorized parties may attempt to misappropriate, reverse engineer, or otherwise obtain and use them. In addition, others may independently discover our trade secrets, in which case we would not be able to assert trade secret rights, or develop similar technologies and processes. Further, the contractual provisions that we enter into may not prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary technology or intellectual property rights. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property is difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S. and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. We may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use or infringement of our solutions, technologies, or intellectual property rights. We use open source software in our solutions, which may restrict how we use or distribute our solutions, require that we release the source code of certain software subject to open source licenses, or subject us to litigation or other actions that could adversely affect our business. We currently use in our solutions, and may use in the future, software that is licensed under open source, free, or other similar license, where the licensed software is made available to the general public on an as-is basis under the terms 24 Table of Contents of a specific non-negotiable license. Some open source software licenses require that software subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works based on the open source code be licensed in source code form under the same open source licenses. Although we monitor our use of open source software, we cannot assure you that all open source software is reviewed prior to use in our solutions, that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our solutions, or that they will not do so in the future. In addition, our solutions may incorporate third-party software under commercial licenses. We cannot be certain whether such third-party software incorporates open source software without our knowledge. In the past, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims alleging noncompliance with open source license terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms or infringement or misappropriation of proprietary software. Because few courts have interpreted open source licenses, the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is subject to some uncertainty. There is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market or provide our solutions. As a result of using open source software subject to such licenses, we could be required to release proprietary source code, pay damages, re-engineer our solutions, limit or discontinue sales, or take other remedial action, any of which could adversely affect our business. Assertions by third parties of infringement or other violations by us of their intellectual property rights, whether or not correct, could result in significant costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Intellectual property disputes are common in our industry. We may be subject to claims in the future alleging that we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed other parties intellectual property rights. Some companies, including certain of our competitors, own a larger number of patents, copyrights, and trademarks than we do, which they may use to assert claims against us. This disparity may also increase the risk that third parties may sue us for patent infringement and may limit our ability to counterclaim for patent infringement or settle through patent cross-licenses. In addition, future assertions of patent rights by third parties, and any resulting litigation, may involve patent holding companies, non-practicing entities, or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues and against whom our own patents may provide little or no deterrence or protection. Our solutions utilize third-party licensed software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these licenses could adversely affect our business. Third parties may also assert claims of intellectual property rights infringement against our customers, whom we are typically required to indemnify. As competition increases, claims of infringement, misappropriation, and other violations of intellectual property rights may increase. Any claim of infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights by a third party, even those without merit, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, could distract our management from our business, and could deter customers or potential customers from purchasing our solutions. There can be no assurance that we will successfully defend third-party intellectual property claims. An adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to: pay substantial damages, including treble or statutory damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed a third partys patents or copyrights, respectively; cease developing or selling any elements of our solutions that rely on technology that is alleged to infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property of others; enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or intellectual property rights; expend additional development resources to attempt to redesign our solutions or otherwise develop non-infringing technology, which may not be successful; and indemnify our customers and other third parties. Any license we may enter into as a result of litigation may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. Any of the foregoing events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Our ability to raise capital in a timely manner if needed in the future may be limited, or such capital may be unavailable on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to raise capital if needed could adversely affect our business and results of operations, and any debt or equity issued to raise additional capital may reduce the value of our common stock. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings and receipts generated from customers. During our fiscal year 2024, we supplemented our liquidity with a revolving credit facility of up to $250.0 million (the "Credit Facility"). As of January 31, 2025, we had $166.0 million outstanding under our Credit Facility. In March 2024, we amended our then-existing revolving credit facility and increased our borrowing availability from $50.0 million to $100.0 million and, in October 2024, we terminated our then-existing revolving credit facility and obtained the Credit Facility. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business and may require additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we incur debt, including under the Credit Facility, the lenders would have rights senior to holders of common stock to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any future debt could restrict our operations, and we may be unable to service or repay the debt. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in a future offering will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the impact any future incurrence of debt or issuance of equity securities will have on us. Any future incurrence of debt or issuance of equity securities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. We have incurred substantial net operating losses (NOLs), during our history. U.S. federal and certain state NOLs generated in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 are not subject to expiration. Federal NOLs generally may not be carried back to prior taxable years except that, under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security (CARES) Act, federal NOLs generated in tax years 2018, 2019, and 2020 may be carried back to each of the five taxable years preceding the taxable year in which the loss arises. Additionally, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020, the deductibility of federal NOLs is limited to 80% of our taxable income in such taxable year. NOLs generated in tax years before 2018 may still be used to offset future taxable income without regard to the 80% limitation, although they have the potential to expire without being utilized if we do not achieve profitability in the future. However, under the rules of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporations ability to use its NOLs, pre-change tax attributes and any net unrealized built-in losses to offset its post-change taxable income or taxes may be limited. The applicable rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the stock of a company, as well as changes in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company. The rules of Section 382 are regularly being evaluated to determine any potential limitations. If we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our NOL carryforwards, pre-change tax attributes or deductions to offset our future taxable income, if any. Amendments to existing tax laws, rules, or regulations, or enactment of new unfavorable tax laws, rules, or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. The rules dealing with U.S. federal, state, and local income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which changes may have retroactive application) could adversely affect us or holders of our common stock. In recent years, many such changes have been made and changes are likely to continue to occur in the future. For example, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted in 2017 and made a number of significant changes to the current U.S. federal income tax rules, including reducing the generally applicable corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, imposing additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, placing limits on the utilization of NOLs, and making substantial changes to the international tax rules. In addition, on March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was signed into law, which included certain changes in tax law intended to stimulate the U.S. economy in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, including temporary beneficial changes to the treatment of net operating losses, interest deductibility limitations, and payroll tax matters. Many of the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act still require guidance through the issuance and/or finalization of regulations by the U.S. Treasury Department in order to fully assess their effects, and there may be substantial delays before such regulations are promulgated and/or finalized, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on us and our stockholders. There also may be technical corrections 26 Table of Contents legislation or other legislative changes proposed with respect to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the effects of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile or may decline steeply or suddenly regardless of our operating performance and we may not be able to meet investor or analyst expectations and you may lose all or part of your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors, and the financial community; any forward-looking financial or operating information we may provide to the public or securities analysts, any changes in this information, or our failure to meet expectations based on this information; actions of securities analysts who initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow us, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; additional shares of our common stock being sold into the market by us or our existing stockholders, or the anticipation of such sales; hedging activities by market participants; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products or features, technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of companies in our industry, including our competitors; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole, including inflation and rising interest rates; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; developments in new legislation and pending lawsuits or regulatory actions, including interim or final rulings by judicial or regulatory bodies; and other events or factors, political conditions, election cycles, war or incidents of terrorism, or responses to these events. In addition, extreme price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets have affected and continue to affect many technology companies stock prices. Stock prices often fluctuate in ways unrelated or disproportionate to a companys operating performance. In the past, stockholders have filed securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business, and seriously harm our business. Moreover, because of these fluctuations, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. This variability and unpredictability could also result in our failing to meet the expectations of industry or financial analysts or investors for any period. If our revenues or operating results fall below the expectations of analysts or investors or below any forecasts we may provide to the market, or if the forecasts we provide to the market are below the expectations of analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could occur even when we have met any previously publicly stated revenue or earnings forecasts that we may provide. 27 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. Future securities issuances could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders and impair the market price of our common stock. Future issuances of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and result in dilution to existing holders of our common stock. Also, to the extent outstanding options to purchase shares of our common stock are exercised or options, restricted stock units, or other stock-based awards are issued or become vested, there will be further dilution. The amount of dilution could be substantial depending upon the size of the issuances or exercises. Furthermore, we may issue additional equity securities that could have rights senior to those of our common stock. As a result, purchasers of our common stock bear the risk that future issuances of debt or equity securities may reduce the value of our common stock and further dilute their ownership interest. Delaware law and provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer, or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay, or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions include the following: establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; permit the board of directors to establish the number of directors and fill any vacancies and newly-created directorships; provide that directors may only be removed for cause; require super-majority voting to amend some provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; authorize the issuance of blank check preferred stock that our board of directors could use to implement a stockholder rights plan; prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which requires all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; provide that the board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, or repeal our bylaws; restrict the forum for certain litigation against us to Delaware; and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at annual stockholder meetings. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 28 Table of Contents Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf under Delaware law, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, (4) any other action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, or (5) any other action asserting an internal corporate claim, as defined in Section 115 of the DGCL, shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) in all cases subject to the court having jurisdiction over indispensable parties named as defendants. These exclusive-forum provisions do not apply to claims under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. To the extent that any such claims may be based upon federal law claims, Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains a federal forum provision which provides that unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any of our securities shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to this provision. This exclusive-forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum of its choosing for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If a court were to find the exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which could harm our results of operations. General Risks Uncertain, volatile, or weakened economic conditions, including inflation and rising interest rates, tariffs and trade issues, and geopolitical uncertainties, may adversely affect our industry, business, and results of operations. Our overall performance depends on economic conditions, which may be challenging at various times in the future. Financial developments, monetary and other developments seemingly unrelated to us or our industry may adversely affect us. For example, the higher interest rate environment in the U.S., undertaken as a means to manage inflation, has had an impact on the real estate market in the U.S. and specifically, the demand for mortgage and mortgage-related products and services, which has had a negative impact on our U.S. mortgage business and may continue to adversely impact that business to the extent the higher interest rate environment persists. Moreover, domestic and international economies have from time-to-time been impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, tariffs and other trade issues, threatened sovereign defaults and ratings downgrades, restricted credit, threats to major multinational companies, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, and overall uncertainty, including uncertainty as a result of geopolitical events such as the conflicts in and around Ukraine, the Middle East and other parts of the world. In particular, recent tariffs and reciprocal trade measures enacted or threatened to be enacted by the U.S. and other countries have led to increased volatility and uncertainty in certain parts of the global economy. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of the current or any future potential economic volatility or slowdown in the U.S. or globally. These conditions affect the rate of technology spending generally and could adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase our solutions, delay prospective customers purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscriptions, or affect renewal rates, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Natural or man-made disasters and other similar events may significantly disrupt our business, and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A significant portion of our employee base, operating facilities, and infrastructure are centralized in Wilmington, North Carolina. Any of our facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable by natural or man-made disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, floods, earthquakes, nuclear disasters, acts of terrorism or other criminal activities, infectious disease outbreaks or pandemic events, power outages, and other infrastructure failures, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to operate our business for some period of time. Our facilities would likely be costly to repair or replace, and any such efforts would likely require substantial time. Any disruptions in our operations could adversely affect our business and results of operations and harm our reputation. Moreover, although we have disaster recovery plans, they may prove inadequate. We may not carry sufficient business insurance to compensate for losses that may occur. Any such losses or damages could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the facilities of our third-party providers, including Salesforce and AWS, may be harmed or rendered inoperable by such natural or man-made disasters, which may cause disruptions, difficulties, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. If securities or industry analysts either do not publish research about us or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business, or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the trading price or trading volume of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced in part by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts may publish about us, our business, our market, or our competitors. If one or more analysts initiate research with an unfavorable rating or downgrade our common stock, provide a more favorable recommendation about our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who covers us or may cover us were to cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the trading price or trading volume of our common stock to decline. Failure to maintain the adequacy of internal controls over financial reporting may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. On an annual basis, this assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal controls over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm is required to annually attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We are required to disclose significant changes made in our internal controls procedure on a quarterly basis. Our compliance with Section 404 has required, and will continue to require, that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal controls over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal controls over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. Operating as a public company requires us to incur substantial costs and requires substantial management attention. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur substantial legal, accounting, and other expenses. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the rules and regulations of the SEC, and the rules and regulations of The Nasdaq Global Select Market. As part of these requirements, we established and maintain effective disclosure and financial controls and make changes to our corporate governance practices. Compliance with these requirements has and will continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming. 30 Table of Contents Our management and other personnel divert attention from other business matters to devote substantial time to the reporting and other requirements of being a public company. In particular, we incur significant expense and devote substantial management effort to complying with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The terms of our Credit Facility contain restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. On October 28, 2024, we entered into a Credit Agreement by and among the Company, nCino OpCo, Inc., certain subsidiaries of the Company as guarantors, the lenders party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent, pursuant to which we received access to a revolving Credit Facility of up to $250.0 million. As of January 31, 2025, we had $166.0 million outstanding under our Credit Facility. The Credit Facility contains affirmative and restrictive covenants that limit our operating ability including to, among other things, dispose of assets, merge with other companies, incur additional indebtedness and liens, engage in new businesses, acquire certain other companies and modify organizational documents. In addition, the Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of our personal property, and the Credit Facility requires us to satisfy certain covenants, including maintaining certain total leverage and interest coverage ratios under the Credit Facility. As a result of these restrictions, we will be limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. There is no guarantee that we will be able to meet our covenants or pay the principal and interest on any such debt. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance any such debt. Any inability to make scheduled payments, meet the financial or other covenants in our Credit Facility would adversely affect our business. Further, at any time, if we violate the terms of the Credit Facility or otherwise fail to meet our covenants, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the lenders under satisfactory terms, if at all, which would limit our operating flexibility and/or liquidity and which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity nCino has implemented a variety of cybersecurity processes, technologies, and controls to aid in our efforts to identify, assess and manage material risks. Our approach includes (i) nCinos Enterprise Risk Management Program, as managed by the Internal Audit & Enterprise Risk Management Department and overseen by the Audit Committee of the Board; (ii) cybersecurity risk and threat assessments; (iii) vulnerability management programs designed to identify hardware and software vulnerabilities; (iv) variety of tools designed to monitor our networks and systems for suspicious activity; and (v) incident response plans and trainings. The Enterprise Risk Management Program includes a cybersecurity risk management process and a formal Information Security Management System ("ISMS") as foundational components of the program covering cybersecurity. Within this process, we routinely assess risks that could affect the organization's ability to meet its business objectives and provide reliable services to our customers. nCinos Chief Information Security Officer ("CISO") is responsible for identifying, assessing, and managing material cybersecurity risks. nCinos CISO brings over 25 years of experience in security and risk management to the Company, reporting to executive leadership, cybersecurity-focused committees, and nCinos Board of Directors. nCino conducts annual cybersecurity risk and threat assessments which include detailed control analyses for measuring both inherent and residual risk factors. These assessments are performed by nCino Information Security as part of ISO 27001 ISMS requirements, framework and certification. Our annual risk assessment, aligned to ISO 27001 and National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST"), is the basis for security risk identification, with additional assessments to address risks that threaten the achievement of established control objectives. Threats to security, confidentiality, and availability are identified and assessed as part of our annual and routine risk assessments. Additional information on the cybersecurity risks we face is discussed in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Risk Factors. nCinos CISO reports cyber security risk assessment results at the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, Information Security, and Board and Audit Committee Meetings. nCino uses formal and informal education and training efforts to identify and mitigate cybersecurity risk, which includes external collaboration with peers and industry groups. nCino maintains a documented process for when and by whom senior management is informed of a cybersecurity incident and when such information will be reported to affected parties. These processes are detailed within our Incident Response Plan which is regularly reviewed and updated by the information security team. 31 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Our headquarters are located in Wilmington, North Carolina where we lease several facilities encompassing approximately 224,000 square feet plus a 648-space parking deck. The leases relating to approximately 180,000 square feet of those facilities plus an adjacent parking deck expire in October 2037, each with options to extend and a purchase option that expires if not exercised on or before November 30, 2026. We have additional domestic offices in the U.S. and international offices in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Japan, Spain, New Zealand and South Africa. All of our offices are leased, and we do not own any real property. We believe our facilities are adequate for our current needs. We believe that we will be able to obtain additional space on commercially reasonable terms. Item 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we may become involved in various litigation matters and be subject to claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. For information regarding legal proceedings, see Note 15 "Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which is incorporated by reference into this Part I, Item 3. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 32 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information for Common Stock Our common stock has been listed on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol NCNO since July 14, 2020. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our common stock. Stockholders As of January 31, 2025, there were 90 holders of record of our common stock. Because many of such shares are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by these record holders. Dividends Policy We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock may be limited by any future debt instruments or preferred securities. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. The graph below compares the cumulative total return to our stockholders on our common stock between July 14, 2020 (the date our common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market) through January 31, 2025 in comparison to the Russell 2000 Index and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in our common stock on July 14, 2020, the Russell 2000 Index, and the S&P 1500 Application Software Index and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. 33 Table of Contents Comparison of Cumulative Total Return of nCino, Inc. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans See Part III, Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters for more information regarding securities authorized for issuance. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and other financial information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in the section titled Risk Factors. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Our fiscal year ends on January 31 of each year and references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to a fiscal year mean the year in which that fiscal year ends. For example, references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to "fiscal 2025" refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2025. The following section of this Form 10-K discusses our financial condition and results of operations for fiscal 2025 and 2024 and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2025 and fiscal 2024. Discussions of fiscal 2023 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in Part II, Item 7, 34 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 26, 2024. Overview As employees at financial institutions do their daily work and serve their clients, they often face inefficiencies from disparate systems, broken workflows, manual processes, and the inability to harness and utilize data effectively. This negatively impacts risk management, decision making and the experiences of bankers and their clients. To solve the problem, FIs need technology that helps them reengineer every experience, intelligently and with agility as market needs shift, and a partner with the experience to help advise on best practices. nCino's trusted platform enables FIs to consolidate vendors while optimizing operations by integrating AI and actionable insights to cohesively bring together people and data and thereby enhance strategic decision-making, risk management, and customer satisfaction. From managing complex credit portfolios to streamlining account onboarding and originating loans, nCino helps FIs of all sizes globally deliver faster, intelligent, and more connected experiences. With the nCino Platform, FIs can: embrace the power of intelligent automation and uncover data-driven insights, improve efficiency, elevate employee and customer experience, manage risk and helping to ensure compliance more effectively, nCino was originally founded in a bank to improve that institution's operations and client service. After realizing that virtually all banks and credit unions were dealing with the same problemscumbersome legacy technology, fragmented data, disconnected business functions, and a disengaged workforce made it difficult to maintain relevancy in their clients' livesnCino was spun out as a separate company in late 2011 to help more institutions solve these challenges using cloud-based technology. We initially focused on developing the nCino Platform to transform commercial and small business lending for community and regional banks in the United States ("U.S."). We scaled the platform to enterprise banks in the U.S. in 2014, and then internationally in 2017. We have subsequently expanded across North America, Europe, the Middle East, Japan and Asia-Pacific ("APAC"). nCino's approach to market expansion includes strategically building products and acquiring technology to continue to fulfill a platform vision. Over the years, we built and enhanced products internally to ensure innovation and seamless integration across key solutions lines of commercial, small business and consumer banking. Through the strategic acquisitions of SimpleNexus, DocFox, FullCircl, ILT, Visible Equity, FinSuite, and our recent acquisition of Sandbox Banking, we significantly augmented the nCino's Platform's capabilities for mortgage lending, onboarding, account opening, indirect auto lending, and advanced analytics and AI. This strategic approach has allowed us to create a unified platform of best-in-class intelligent solutions, enabling FIs to replace multiple legacy systems, connect their operations, and streamline workflows and processes across various business lines to achieve desired business impact and process improvement. We generally offer the nCino Platform on a subscription basis pursuant to non-cancellable multi-year contracts that are typically three to five years. nCino has evolved from being a single product workflow solution to offering a platform of best-in-class, intelligent solutions. Our new Intelligent Solution Framework pricing model helps ensure the value-based positioning and pricing of our products and creates an opportunity to embed intelligence into all our solutions. Starting in fiscal 2025, by moving away from a seat-based pricing model to pricing directly correlated to the FI's assets, we are aligning our revenues to the usefulness the nCino Platform provides as nCino creates efficiencies for our customers. For fiscal 2025, we had a subscription revenue net retention rate of 110%. See Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsFactors Affecting Our Operating ResultsSubscription Revenue Net Retention Rate for additional information on subscription revenue retention rates. We sell our solutions directly through our business development managers, account executives, field sales engineers, and customer success managers. Our sales efforts in the U.S. are organized around FIs based on size, whereas 35 Table of Contents internationally, we focus our sales efforts by geography. As of January 31, 2025, we had 194 sales and sales support personnel in the U.S. and 136 sales and support personnel in offices outside the U.S. To help customers go live with our solutions, we offer professional services including configuration and implementation, training, and advisory services. For enterprise FIs, we generally work with SI partners such as Accenture, Deloitte, and PwC for the delivery of professional services for the nCino Platform. For regional FIs, we work with SIs such as West Monroe Partners, and for community banks, we work with SIs or perform configuration and implementation ourselves. We expect enterprise FIs to make up a greater proportion of our nCino Platform sales. On March 20, 2024 (the "DocFox Acquisition Date"), we acquired DocFox, Inc. ("DocFox") which provides a solution for automating onboarding experiences for commercial and business banking, for an aggregate preliminary purchase price of $74.3 million. We funded the purchase consideration with $75.0 million borrowed under our revolving credit facility. We acquired Integrated Lending Technologies, LLC ("ILT") on April 1, 2024 (the "ILT Acquisition Date"), which provides consumer loan origination software that streamlines direct and indirect lending operations, for an aggregate purchase price of $20.0 million in cash. On November 5, 2024 (the "FullCircl Acquisition Date"), we acquired Artesian Solutions Limited, operating as FullCircl ("FullCircl"), a UK-based SaaS platform built to help FIs automate and accelerate onboarding and improve client lifecycle management. We funded $129.2 million of the purchase consideration with borrowings made in October 2024 under our revolving credit facility. See Note 6 "Business Combinations" and Note 14 "Revolving Credit Facility" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. We have included the financial results of DocFox, ILT and FullCircl in the consolidated financial statements from the DocFox Acquisition Date, the ILT Acquisition Date, and the FullCircl Acquisition Date, respectively. Our total revenues were $408.3 million, $476.5 million, and $540.7 million for fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025, respectively, representing a 15.1% compound annual growth rate. Our subscription revenues were $344.8 million, $409.5 million, and $469.2 million for fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025, representing a 16.7% compound annual growth rate. Our total subscription revenues include an aggregate of $12.3 million from DocFox, ILT, and FullCircl for fiscal 2025. We recorded net losses attributable to nCino in fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025 of $102.7 million, $42.3 million, and $37.9 million, respectively. For fiscal 2025, our financial results include the operating results of DocFox, ILT and FullCircl from the DocFox Acquisition Date, the ILT Acquisition Date, and the FullCircl Acquisition Date, respectively. In February 2025, we acquired Alphapack, Co. dba Sandbox Banking ("Sandbox Banking"), a digital transformation leader serving the financial services industry, for an aggregate purchase price of $52.5 million, subject to customary adjustments, with an additional earn-out opportunity of up to $10.0 million. This acquisition strengthens our ability to enhance data connectivity and streamline operations for banks and credit unions through an industry-leading Integration Platform as a Service (iPaaS) solution for a more intelligent and harmonious technology platform. See Note 20 "Subsequent Events" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Factors Affecting Our Operating Results Market Adoption of Our Solution. Our future growth depends on our ability to expand our reach to new FI customers and increase adoption with existing customers as they broaden their use of our solutions within and across lines of business. Our success in growing our customer base and expanding adoption of our solutions by existing customers requires a focused direct sales engagement and the ability to convince key decision makers at FIs to replace legacy third-party point solutions or internally developed software with our solutions. Our ability to successfully implement our new asset-based pricing model that formally started in fiscal 2025 will also be a key driver. In addition, growing our customer base will require us to increasingly penetrate markets outside the U.S., which accounted for 21.5% of total revenues for fiscal 2025. For new customers, our sales cycles are typically lengthy, generally ranging from 6 to 9 for smaller FIs to 12 to 18 months or more for larger FIs. Key to landing new customers is our ability to successfully take our existing customers live and help them achieve measurable returns on their investment, thereby turning them into referenceable accounts. If we are unable to successfully address the foregoing challenges, our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability will be adversely affected, which may in turn reduce the value of our common stock. Mix of Subscription and Professional Services Revenues. The initial deployment of our solutions by our customers requires a period of implementation and configuration services that typically average less than six months, but may extend beyond twelve months depending on scope. As a result, during the initial go-live period for a customer on the nCino Platform, professional services revenues generally make up a substantial portion of our revenues from that customer, whereas over time, revenues from established customers are more heavily weighted to subscriptions. While professional services 36 Table of Contents revenues will fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues, we expect subscription revenues will continue to make up an increasing proportion of our total revenues. Subscription Revenue Net Retention Rate. We believe that our ability to retain and grow subscription revenues from our existing customers over time strengthens the stability and predictability of our revenue base and is reflective of both the adoption curve of customers and the value we deliver to them. We assess our performance in this area using a metric we refer to as subscription revenue net retention rate. We calculate our subscription revenue net retention rate as total subscription revenues in a fiscal year from customers who contributed subscription revenues in the prior fiscal year, expressed as a percentage of total subscription revenues for the prior fiscal year. In accordance with this definition, subscription revenues from customers obtained through an acquisition will first be included in the calculation in the fiscal year subsequent to such acquisition, for the periods they were a customer of nCino. Our subscription revenue net retention rate provides insight into the impact on current year subscription revenues of: the number and timing of new customers, subscription fees to be charged existing customers in successive years, and phased activation of seats purchased by them in prior years, which activation schedules can span several fiscal years for larger contracts; expanding adoption of our solutions by our existing customers during the current year; and customer attrition. For fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025, we had subscription revenue net retention rates of 144%, 116%, and 110%, respectively. The most significant driver of changes in our subscription revenue net retention rate each year has historically been the number of new customers in prior years and the associated phased activation schedules for such customers. In addition, because larger FIs tend to make more sizable purchases, we expect variability in our subscription revenue net retention rates based on the timing and extent of our continued penetration of this portion of the market. Excluding our U.S. mortgage business, the subscription revenue net retention rate for fiscal 2023 was 124%. The moderation in our subscription revenue net retention rate for fiscal 2024 was due to a decline in revenues from customers adversely affected by an increase in mortgage interest rates, from the expiration of licenses utilized for forgiveness monitoring of Paycheck Protection Program loans, and from the acquisition of certain customers by entities that do not currently use our solutions. The moderation in our subscription revenue net retention rate for fiscal 2025 was due primarily to a decline in revenues from customers adversely affected by an increase in mortgage interest rates, and from the acquisition of certain customers by entities that do not currently use our solutions. Our use of subscription revenue net retention rate has limitations as an analytical tool, and investors should not consider it in isolation. Other companies in adjacent markets may calculate subscription revenue net retention rates or similar metrics differently, which reduces its usefulness as a comparative measure. For fiscal 2025, we refined our methodology for calculating subscription revenue net retention rate to align with the details disclosed in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations regarding the change in subscription revenues. Using our prior calculation methodology, subscription revenue retention rate was 148%, 117%, 112% for fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025, respectively. ACV Net Retention Rate. A key element of our growth strategy is to expand our deployed footprint with a customer after initial adoption. Our customers typically purchase the nCino Platform for a defined line of business or to support a specific use case and, once deployed, we seek to convince the customer to adopt our solutions within and across additional lines of business. To date, we have been successful in executing our land and expand strategy as a result of the ability of our solutions to streamline workflow, generate meaningful insights for operational improvement, and help drive improved bottom line results. Our historical net retention rates may not be predictive of future results. If our customers do not continue to see the ability of our solutions to generate return on investment relative to other available solutions or at all, ACV net retention rates could suffer and our operating results could be adversely affected. We believe our ACV net retention rate over the long term illustrates our success in executing our land and expand strategy, as it demonstrates growing adoption by existing customers, including price increases but net of attrition. We define ACV net retention rate as total ACV at the end of a fiscal year from customers with ACV as of the end of the prior fiscal year, expressed as a percentage of ACV as of the end of the prior fiscal year, converted to U.S. dollar with foreign exchange rates in effect as of the end of the applicable period. We define ACV as the highest annualized subscription fee obligation under customer contracts in effect at the end of the reporting period. ACV net retention rate can occasionally moderate from one period to the next, from customer attrition for example. Our ACV net retention rate was 105%, 102%, and 106% for fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025, respectively.The moderation in our ACV net retention rate for fiscal 2024 was due to a decline in ACV from customers adversely affected by an increase in mortgage interest rates, from the expiration of licenses utilized for 37 Table of Contents forgiveness monitoring of Paycheck Protection Program loans, and from the acquisition of customers by non-customers. The increase in our ACV net retention rate for fiscal 2025 was attributable to increased ACV from customers who expanded their adoption of our solutions, offset in part due to a decline in ACV from customers adversely affected by an increase in mortgage rates. Macroeconomic Environment. We are currently operating in a fluctuating interest rate environment with inflationary pressures. These fluctuations have had an impact on the real estate market in the U.S. and specifically, the demand for mortgages and mortgage-related products and services, which has had a negative impact on our U.S. mortgage business. We will continue to monitor the impact the macroeconomic environment may have on our business. Continued Investment in Innovation and Growth. We have made substantial investments in product development, sales and marketing, and strategic acquisitions since our inception to achieve a leadership position in our market and grow our revenues and customer base. We intend to continue to increase our investment in product development in the coming years to maintain and build on this advantage. We also intend to invest in sales and marketing both in the U.S. and internationally to further grow our business. To capitalize on the market opportunity we see ahead of us, we expect to continue to optimize our operating plans for revenue growth and profitability. Components of Results of Operations Revenues We derive our revenues from subscription and professional services and other revenues. Subscription Revenues. Our subscription revenues consist principally of fees from customers for accessing our solutions and maintenance and support services that we generally offer under non-cancellable multi-year contracts, which are typically three to five years in length, we offer: Client onboarding, loan origination, and deposit account opening solutions targeted at a FIs commercial, small business, and retail lines of business, as well as Banking Advisor and other ancillary products, for which we generally charge on a per seat basis or based upon the asset size of the customer. As we continue to implement our new pricing model, we expect the number of customers we charge based on asset size will increase considerably. Through our U.S. mortgage business, a digital homeownership solution uniting people, systems, and stages of the mortgage process into a seamless end-to-end journey for which we generally charge on a per seat basis or anticipated lending volume basis. Maintenance and support services as well as internal-use or sandbox development licenses, for which we generally charge as a percentage of the related subscription fees. Our subscription revenues are generally recognized ratably over the term of the contract beginning upon activation. For new customers, we may activate a portion of seats at inception of the agreement, with the balance activated at contractually specified points in time thereafter, to pattern our invoicing after the customers expected rate of implementation and adoption. Where seats are activated in stages, we charge subscription fees from the date of activation through the anniversary of the initial activation date, and annually thereafter. Subscription fees are generally billed annually in advance while subscription fees for U.S. mortgage are generally billed monthly in advance. Maintenance and support fees, as well as development licenses, are provided over the same periods as the related subscriptions, so fees are invoiced and revenues are recognized over the same periods. Subscription fees invoiced are recorded as deferred revenue pending recognition as revenues. In certain cases, we are authorized to resell access to Salesforces CRM solution along with the nCino Platform. When we resell such access, we charge a higher subscription price and remit a higher subscription fee to Salesforce for these subscriptions. Professional Services and Other Revenues. Professional services and other revenues consist of fees for implementation and configuration assistance, training, and advisory services. For enterprise and larger regional FIs, we generally work with SI partners to provide the majority of implementation services for the nCino Platform, for which these SI partners bill our customers directly. We have historically delivered professional services ourselves for community banks and smaller credit unions and our U.S. mortgage business has historically provided professional services directly to its customers. Revenues for implementation, training, and advisory services are generally recognized on a proportional performance basis, 38 Table of Contents based on labor hours incurred relative to total budgeted hours. To date, our losses on professional services contracts have not been material. During the initial go-live period for a customer on the nCino Platform, professional services revenues generally make up a substantial portion of our revenues from that customer, whereas over time, revenues from established customers are more heavily weighted to subscriptions. While professional services revenues will fluctuate as a percentage of total revenues in the future and tend to be higher in periods of faster growth, over time we expect to see subscription revenues make up an increasing proportion of our total revenues. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Cost of Subscription Revenues. Cost of subscription revenues consists of fees paid to Salesforce for access to the Salesforce Platform, including Salesforces hosting infrastructure and data center operations, along with certain integration fees paid to other third parties. When we resell access to Salesforces CRM solution, cost of subscription revenues also includes the subscription fees we remit to Salesforce for providing such access. We also incur costs associated with access to other platforms. In addition, cost of subscription revenues includes personnel-related costs associated with delivering maintenance and support services, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, travel and related costs, amortization of acquired developed technology, and allocated overhead. Our subscription gross margin will vary from period to period as a function of the utilization of support personnel and the extent to which we recognize subscription revenues from the resale of Salesforces CRM solution. Cost of Professional Services and Other Revenues. Cost of professional services and other revenues consists primarily of personnel-related costs associated with delivery of these services, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, travel and related costs, and allocated overhead. The cost of providing professional services is significantly higher as a percentage of the related revenues than for our subscription services due to direct labor costs. The cost of professional services revenues has increased in absolute dollars as we have added new customer subscriptions that require professional services and built-out our international professional services capabilities. Realized effective billing and utilization rates drive fluctuations in our professional services and other gross margin on a period-to-period basis. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our sales and marketing employees, including salaries, sales commissions and incentives, benefits and stock-based compensation expense, travel and related costs. We capitalize incremental costs incurred to obtain contracts, primarily consisting of sales commissions, and subsequently amortize these costs over the expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be approximately four years. Sales and marketing expenses also include outside consulting fees, marketing programs, including lead generation, costs of our annual user conference, advertising, trade shows, other event expenses, amortization of intangible assets, and allocated overhead. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase as a percentage of revenues. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation associated with our engineering, product and quality assurance personnel, as well as allocated overhead. Research and development expenses also include the cost of third-party contractors. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We expect research and development costs will decrease as a percentage of revenues as we leverage the investments we have made to date. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation associated with our executive, finance, legal, human resources, information technology, compliance and other administrative personnel. General and administrative expenses also include accounting, auditing and legal professional services fees, travel and other corporate-related expenses, and allocated overhead, as well as acquisition-related expenses, such as legal and other professional services fees. We expect general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenues as we leverage the investments we have made to date. Non-Operating Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Interest Expense. Interest expense consists primarily of interest related to our financing obligations along with interest expense on borrowings, commitment fees, and amortization of debt issuance costs associated with our secured revolving credit facility. 39 Table of Contents Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net consists primarily of foreign currency gains and losses, the majority of which is due to intercompany loans that are denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional currency of the applicable entity. Income Tax Provision (Benefit). Income tax provision (benefit) consists of federal and state income taxes in the U.S. and income taxes in foreign jurisdictions. Results of Operations The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with the financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following tables present our selected consolidated statements of operations data for fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025 in both dollars and as a percentage of total revenues, except as noted. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands, except share and per share amounts) 2023 2024 20251 Revenues: Subscription revenues $ 344,752 $ 409,479 $ 469,168 Professional services and other revenues 63,563 67,064 71,489 Total revenues 408,315 476,543 540,657 Cost of revenues: Cost of subscription revenues 106,265 120,861 134,932 Cost of professional services and other revenues 63,341 70,609 80,937 Total cost of revenues 169,606 191,470 215,869 Gross profit 238,709 285,073 324,788 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 127,669 130,547 123,231 Research and development 121,576 117,311 129,422 General and administrative 83,477 76,727 90,266 Total operating expenses 332,722 324,585 342,919 Loss from operations (94,013) (39,512) (18,131) Non-operating income (expense): Interest income 403 2,567 1,761 Interest expense (2,807) (4,135) (8,763) Other expense, net (1,356) (856) (10,427) Loss before income taxes (97,773) (41,936) (35,560) Income tax provision (benefit) 4,071 1,590 (2,511) Net loss (101,844) (43,526) (33,049) Net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interest (1,119) (1,109) (472) Adjustment attributable to redeemable non-controlling interest 1,995 (71) 5,301 Net loss attributable to nCino, Inc. $ (102,720) $ (42,346) $ (37,878) Net loss per share attributable to nCino, Inc.: Basic and diluted $ (0.93) $ (0.38) $ (0.33) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: Basic and diluted 110,615,734 112,672,397 115,162,175 1Includes the operating results of DocFox, ILT and FullCircl from the DocFox Acquisition Date, the ILT Acquisition Date and the FullCircl Acquisition Date, respectively, see Note 6 "Business Combinations" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 40 Table of Contents The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense as follows: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2024 2025 Cost of subscription revenues $ 1,430 $ 1,847 $ 2,891 Cost of professional services and other revenues 7,263 9,369 11,977 Sales and marketing 13,283 15,417 17,016 Research and development 11,602 15,942 17,416 General and administrative 16,654 15,460 22,292 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 50,232 $ 58,035 $ 71,592 The Company recognized amortization expense for intangible assets as follows: Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2024 2025 Cost of subscription revenues $ 17,019 $ 16,306 $ 17,784 Cost of professional services and other revenues 94 330 330 Sales and marketing 11,087 20,590 11,979 Total amortization expense $ 28,200 $ 37,226 $ 30,093 Fiscal Year Ended January 31, 2023 2024 2025 Revenues: Subscription revenues 84.4 % 85.9 % 86.8 % Professional services and other revenues 15.6 14.1 13.2 Total revenues 100.0 100.0 100.0 Cost of revenues (percentage shown in comparison to related revenues): Cost of subscription revenues 30.8 29.5 28.8 Cost of professional services and other revenues 99.7 105.3 113.2 Total cost of revenues 41.5 40.2 39.9 Gross profit 58.5 59.8 60.1 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 31.3 27.4 22.8 Research and development 29.8 24.6 23.9 General and administrative 20.4 16.1 16.7 Total operating expenses 81.5 68.1 63.4 Loss from operations (23.0) (8.3) (3.3) Non-operating income (expense): Interest income 0.1 0.5 0.3 Interest expense (0.7) (0.9) (1.6) Other expense, net (0.3) (0.2) (1.9) Loss before income taxes (23.9) (8.9) (6.5) Income tax provision (benefit) 1.0 0.3 (0.5) Net loss (24.9) % (9.2) % (6.0) % 41 Table of Contents Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 2024 and 2025 Revenues Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2024 2025 Revenues: Subscription revenues $ 409,479 85.9 % $ 469,168 86.8 % Professional services and other revenues 67,064 14.1 71,489 13.2 Total revenues $ 476,543 100.0 % $ 540,657 100.0 % Subscription Revenues Subscription revenues increased $59.7 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, due to initial revenues from customers who did not contribute to subscription revenues during the prior period, growth from existing customers within and across lines of business, and acquisitions. Of the increase, 70.6% was attributable to increased revenues from existing customers as additional seats were activated in accordance with contractual terms and customers expanded their adoption of our solutions, and 29.4% was attributable to initial revenues from customers who did not contribute to subscription revenues during the prior period. Subscription revenues were 86.8% of total revenues for fiscal 2025 compared to 85.9% of total revenues for fiscal 2024, primarily due to growth in our installed base. Professional Services and Other Revenues Professional services and other revenues increased $4.4 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, primarily due to the addition of new customers as well as expanded adoption by existing customers within and across lines of business where implementation, configuration, and training services were required. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2024 2025 Cost of revenues (percentage shown in comparison to related revenues): Cost of subscription revenues $ 120,861 29.5 % $ 134,932 28.8 % Cost of professional services and other revenues 70,609 105.3 80,937 113.2 Total cost of revenues $ 191,470 40.2 $ 215,869 39.9 Gross profit $ 285,073 59.8 % $ 324,788 60.1 % Cost of Subscription Revenues Cost of subscription revenues increased $14.1 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, generating a gross margin for subscription revenues of 71.2% compared to a gross margin of 70.5% for fiscal 2024. Other costs of subscription revenues increased $6.3 million due to other data costs. Personnel costs, including stock-based compensation expense, increased $4.0 million, mainly from an increase in overall headcount. Costs related to Salesforce user fees increased $2.3 million as we continued to add new customers and sell additional functionality to existing customers. The increase in cost of subscription revenues also included an increase of $1.5 million in amortization expense related to acquired intangibles. We expect the cost of subscription revenues will continue to increase in absolute dollars as the number of users of the nCino Platform grows. Cost of Professional Services and Other Revenues Cost of professional services and other revenues increased $10.3 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, generating a gross margin for professional services and other revenues of (13.2)% compared to a gross margin of (5.3)% for fiscal 2024. For fiscal 2025, personnel costs increased $9.0 million for professional services and other revenues compared to the prior year period, mainly from an increase in headcount and a $2.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in cost of professional services and other revenue also included an increase of $1.2 million in third-party costs of 42 Table of Contents professional services. The decrease in our professional services and other gross margin for fiscal 2025 was primarily due to a decline in realized effective billing rates in our professional services teams. Operating Expenses Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2024 2025 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 130,547 27.4 % $ 123,231 22.8 % Research and development 117,311 24.6 129,422 23.9 General and administrative 76,727 16.1 90,266 16.7 Total operating expenses 324,585 68.1 342,919 63.4 Loss from operations $ (39,512) (8.3) % $ (18,131) (3.3) % Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses decreased $7.3 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, primarily attributable to a decrease of $11.9 million due to no longer amortizing the SimpleNexus trade name intangible asset as a result of the rebranding of the SimpleNexus solution to nCino Mortgage during fiscal 2024, partially offset by an increase of $2.8 million in amortization expense for fiscal 2025 acquired intangible assets. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses also included a decrease of $0.5 million sales-related travel costs. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses was partially offset by an increase $1.2 million in personnel costs primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation expense. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses was also partially offset by an increase of $1.1 million in marketing costs. Our sales and marketing headcount increased by 54 from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, primarily due to acquisitions. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase as a percentage of revenues. Research and Development Research and development expenses increased $12.1 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, primarily attributable to a $9.2 million increase in personnel cost, mainly from an increase in headcount due to acquisitions and an increase in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in research and development expenses also included an increase of $2.1 million in third-party professional fees as a result of increased contract research and development spend, and an increase of $0.5 million in allocated overhead costs due to growth supporting our continued business expansion. Our research and development headcount increased by 22 from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, primarily due to acquisitions. We expect research and development expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenues as we leverage the investments we have made to date. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses increased $13.5 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, primarily due to an increase of $9.8 million in personnel costs, mostly attributable to a $6.8 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, and an increase in headcount. The increase in general and administrative expenses also included an increase of $5.2 million in third-party professional fees, mostly attributable to an increase for acquisition-related expenses for fiscal 2025 acquisitions offset by a decrease in litigation expenses and other professional fees. The increase in general and administrative spend was partially offset by a decrease of $1.6 million in allocated overheard and other general and administrative costs. Our general and administrative headcount increased by 18 from January 31, 2024 to January 31, 2025, primarily due to acquisitions. We expect general and administrative expenses will decrease as a percentage of revenues as we leverage the investments we have made to date. 43 Table of Contents Non-Operating Income (Expense) Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2024 2025 Interest income $ 2,567 0.5 % $ 1,761 0.3 % Interest expense (4,135) (0.9) (8,763) (1.6) Other expense, net (856) (0.2) (10,427) (1.9) Interest income decreased $0.8 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, due to the mix of our accounts earning interest and interest rates. Interest expense increased $4.6 million for fiscal 2025 compared to fiscal 2024, due to borrowing on our revolving credit facility. The increase of $9.6 million in other expense, net was primarily driven by intercompany loans and transactions that are denominated in currencies other than the underlying functional currency of the applicable entity resulting in remeasurement losses. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2024 2025 Income tax provision (benefit) $ 1,590 0.3 % $ (2,511) (0.5) % Income tax benefit was $2.5 million for fiscal 2025 compared to a provision of $1.6 million for fiscal 2024 and resulted in an effective tax rate of 7.1% compared to (3.8)% in the prior fiscal year. See Note 11 "Income Taxes" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the components of income tax and a reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory rate to the effective tax rate. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets in several jurisdictions, including the U.S. It is determined by management when a valuation allowance should be recorded, utilizing significant judgement and the use of estimates. In fiscal year 2025, the Company acquired DocFox and recorded a net U.S. deferred tax liability mostly related to identifiable intangible assets. The deferred tax liability recognized provides additional positive evidence that a portion of the Companys U.S. deferred tax assets are realizable. As a result, the Company reduced the historical valuation allowance in the U.S. by $3.6 million. Comparison of the Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 2023 and 2024 For a discussion of our results of operations for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024 compared to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023, please refer to Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2024, filed with the SEC on March 26, 2024. Non-GAAP Financial Measure In addition to providing financial measurements based on generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"), we provide an additional financial metric that is not prepared in accordance with GAAP ("non-GAAP"). Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure, in addition to GAAP financial measures, to understand and compare operating results across accounting periods, for financial and operational decision making, for planning and forecasting purposes, and to evaluate our financial performance. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure helps us to identify underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the expenses that we exclude in the calculations of the non-GAAP financial measure. Accordingly, we believe that this financial measure reflects our ongoing business in a manner that allows for meaningful comparisons and analysis of trends in the business and provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results, and enhancing the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects. Although the calculation of non-GAAP financial measures may vary from company to company, our detailed presentation may facilitate analysis and comparison of our operating results by management and investors with other peer 44 Table of Contents companies, many of which use a similar non-GAAP financial measure to supplement their GAAP results in their public disclosures. This non-GAAP financial measure is non-GAAP operating income (loss), as discussed below. Non-GAAP operating income (loss). Non-GAAP operating income (loss) is defined as loss from operations as reported in our consolidated statements of operations excluding the following items: Amortization of Purchased Intangibles. nCino incurs amortization expense for purchased intangible assets in connection with certain mergers and acquisitions. Because these costs have already been incurred, cannot be recovered, are non-cash, and are affected by the inherent subjective nature of purchase price allocations, nCino excludes these expenses for our internal management reporting processes. nCinos management also finds it useful to exclude these charges when assessing the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Although nCino excludes amortization expense for purchased intangibles from these non-GAAP measures, management believes it is important for investors to understand that such intangible assets were recorded as part of purchase accounting and contribute to revenue generation. Stock-Based Compensation Expense. nCino excludes stock-based compensation expenses primarily because they are non-cash expenses that nCino excludes from our internal management reporting processes. nCinos management also finds it useful to exclude these expenses when they assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses and resource allocations when budgeting, planning and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use, nCino believes excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. Acquisition Related Expenses.nCino excludes expenses related to acquisitions as they limit comparability of operating results with prior periods. Acquisition-related expenses, include but are not limited to, costs incurred from third-party professional services firms in connection with business combination and one-time integration activities. We believe these costs are non-recurring in nature and outside the ordinary course of business. Litigation Expenses. nCino excludes fees and expenses related to certain litigation expenses incurred from legal matters outside the ordinary course of our business as we believe their exclusion from non-GAAP operating expenses will facilitate a more meaningful explanation of operating results and comparisons with prior period results. Restructuring Costs.nCino excludes costs incurred related to bespoke restructuring plans and other one-time costs that are fundamentally different in strategic nature and frequency from ongoing initiatives. We believe excluding these costs facilitates a more consistent comparison of operating performance over time. See Note 18 "Restructuring" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on the charges related to the restructuring. This non-GAAP financial measure does not replace the presentation of our GAAP financial results and should only be used as a supplement to, not as a substitute for, our financial results presented in accordance with GAAP. There are limitations in the use of non-GAAP measures because they do not include all of the expenses that must be included under GAAP and because they involve the exercise of judgment concerning exclusions of items from the comparable non-GAAP financial measure. In addition, other companies may use other measures to evaluate their performance, or may calculate non-GAAP measures differently, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. 45 Table of Contents The following table reconciles non-GAAP operating income (loss) to loss from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure, calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP (in thousands): Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2024 2025 GAAP loss from operations $ (94,013) $ (39,512) $ (18,131) Adjustments Amortization of intangible assets 28,200 37,226 30,093 Stock-based compensation expense 50,232 58,035 71,592 Acquisition-related expenses 2,276 878 12,245 Litigation expenses1 6,147 4,525 366 Restructuring and related charges2 5,017 627 Total adjustments 91,872 101,291 114,296 Non-GAAP operating income (loss) $ (2,141) $ 61,779 $ 96,165 1Represents legal expenses related to a closed government antitrust investigation and related civil action and a dismissed shareholder derivative lawsuit. 2Stock-based compensation benefit of $0.2 million related to restructuring is included on the stock-based compensation expense line item for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 31, 2025, we had $120.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, and an accumulated deficit of $385.3 million. Our net losses have been driven by our investments in developing the nCino Platform and scaling our sales and marketing organization and finance and administrative functions to support our rapid growth. To date, we have funded our capital needs through issuances of common stock including our initial public offering in July 2020, operating cash flows, and our revolving line of credit. We generally bill and collect from our customers annually in advance. Our billings are subject to seasonality, with billings in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year substantially higher than in the second and third quarters. Because we recognize revenues ratably, our deferred revenue balance mirrors the seasonality of our billings. As of January 31, 2025, the Company had $166.0 million outstanding, no letters of credit issued under the 2024 Credit Facility, was in compliance with all covenants and had borrowing availability of $84.0 million. On March 17, 2024, the Company entered into the Second Amendment for the 2022 Credit Facility which, among other things, increased our borrowing availability to $100.0 million. In March 2024, we borrowed $75.0 million under the 2022 Credit Facility to fund the acquisition of DocFox. On October 28, 2024, the Company entered into the 2024 Credit Facility, which increased our borrowing availability to $250.0 million. The Company borrowed $166.0 million under the 2024 Credit Facility to fund the acquisition of FullCircl and pay the outstanding amount under the 2022 Credit Facility. The Company expects to pay an additional $15.0 million in two years for the FullCircl acquisition upon the satisfaction and performance of certain warranties and covenants. During fiscal 2025, we repaid $75.0 million on the 2022 and 2024 Credit Facilities. As of January 31, 2025, the applicable interest rate was 6.31%. See Note 14 "Revolving Credit Facility" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. In February 2025, the Company borrowed an additional $52.5 million on the 2024 Credit Facility to fund an acquisition and in March 2025 the Company repaid $50.0 million on the 2024 Credit Facility, see Note 20 "Subsequent Events" for additional information. We believe that current cash and cash equivalents as well as borrowings available under the 2024 Credit Facility will be sufficient to fund our operations and capital requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts to enhance the nCino Platform and introduce new solutions, market acceptance of our solutions, the continued expansion of our sales and marketing activities, capital expenditure requirements, and any potential future acquisitions. We expect capital expenditures will be appreciably higher in absolute dollars in fiscal 2026 for planned office build-outs, mainly for an international office, compared to prior fiscal years to accommodate our growth, which we estimate to be approximately $8.4 million. We may from time-to-time seek to raise additional capital to support our growth. Any equity financing we may undertake could be dilutive to our existing stockholders, and any debt financing we may undertake could 46 Table of Contents require debt service and financial and operational covenants that could adversely affect our business. There is no assurance we would be able to obtain future financing on acceptable terms or at all. nCino K.K. In fiscal 2020, we established nCino K.K., a Japanese company in which we own a controlling interest, for purposes of facilitating our entry into the Japanese market. We have consolidated the results of operations and financial condition of nCino K.K. since its inception. Pursuant to an agreement with the holders of the non-controlling interest in nCino K.K., beginning in 2027 we may redeem the non-controlling interest, or be required to redeem such interest by the holders thereof, based on a prescribed formula derived from the relative revenues of nCino K.K. and the Company. The balance of the redeemable non-controlling interest is reported on our balance sheet below total liabilities but above stockholders equity at the greater of the initial carrying amount adjusted for the redeemable non-controlling interests share of earnings or losses and other comprehensive income or loss, or its estimated redemption value. As of January 31, 2024 and January 31, 2025, the redeemable non-controlling interest was $3.4 million and $8.3 million, respectively. Cash Flows Summary Cash Flow information for fiscal 2023, 2024, and 2025 are set forth below. Fiscal Year Ended January 31, ($ in thousands) 2023 2024 2025 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (15,381) $ 57,285 $ 55,199 Net cash used in investing activities (20,725) (6,328) (219,177) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 36,712 (21,113) 170,478 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities The $55.2 million of net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2025 reflects our net loss of $33.0 million and $38.5 million used in changes in working capital accounts, offset by $126.7 million in non-cash charges. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, foreign currency losses related to intercompany loans and transactions, deferred income taxes, and non-cash operating lease costs. Cash used in working capital accounts was principally a function of a $31.4 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and collections from customers, an increase of $21.5 million of capitalized costs to obtain revenue contracts, which consisted primarily of sales commissions, a $7.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, a decrease of $3.8 million in operating lease liabilities, and a $0.2 million decrease in accounts payable. The cash used in working capital accounts was partially offset by a $13.8 million increase in deferred revenue, as we expanded our customer base and renewed existing customers, a $10.2 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities primarily due to acquisition costs and compensation, and a $1.4 million increase in other long-term liabilities. The $57.3 million of net cash provided by operating activities in fiscal 2024 reflects our net loss of $43.5 million and $16.4 million used in changes in working capital accounts, partially offset by $117.2 million in non-cash charges. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization, amortization of costs capitalized to obtain revenue contracts, non-cash operating lease costs, deferred income taxes, provision for bad debt, foreign currency losses related to intercompany loans and transactions, and an unrealized gain on investment. Cash used in working capital accounts was principally a function of a $14.3 million increase in accounts receivable due to the timing of billings and collections from customers, an increase of $10.3 million of capitalized costs to obtain revenue contracts, which consisted primarily of sales commissions, a $6.0 million decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities which includes payments of approximately $5.0 million for severance and other employee costs associated with the restructuring plan and changing commission payment plans from a quarterly basis to a monthly basis, and a decrease of $4.1 million in operating lease liabilities. The cash used in working capital accounts was partially offset by a $15.9 million increase in deferred revenue, as we expanded our customer base and renewed existing customers, a $1.9 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $0.5 million increase in accounts payable. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities The $219.2 million of net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2025 was comprised of $216.9 million used for the acquisition of DocFox, ILT, and FullCircl, $1.8 million for the purchase of property and equipment and leasehold 47 Table of Contents improvements to support the expansion of our business, and $0.5 million for the acquisition of certain technology. The $6.3 million of net cash used in investing activities in fiscal 2024 was comprised of $3.5 million used for the purchase of property and equipment to support the expansion of our business, $2.5 million used for the purchase of preferred stock in Rich Data Co, and $0.4 million for an asset acquisition completed in August 2022. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities The $170.5 million of net cash provided by financing activities in fiscal 2025 was comprised principally of $241.0 million proceeds from borrowings on the 2022 and 2024 Credit Facility to fund the acquisitions of DocFox and FullCircl, $4.5 million of proceeds from stock issuances under the employee stock purchase plan, and $2.8 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. The cash provided by financing activities was partially offset by payments of $75.0 million on the 2022 Credit Facility, payments of debt issuance costs of $1.5 million, and principal payments of $1.3 million on financing obligations. The $21.1 million of net cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2024 was comprised principally of payments of $30.0 million on the Credit Facility and principal payments of $1.2 million on the financing obligations. The cash used in financing activities was partially offset by $4.7 million in proceeds from stock issuances under the employee stock purchase plan, $4.5 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, and $1.0 million in proceeds from the non-controlling interest in our Japan joint venture. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our estimated future obligations principally consist of an indemnity holdback associated with a business combination, leases related to our facilities, purchase obligations related primarily to licenses and hosting services, financing obligations for leases for which we are considered the owners for accounting purposes, and the Credit Facility. See Note 6 "Business Combinations," Note 13 "Leases," Note 14 "Revolving Credit Facility," and Note 15 "Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be significant. We believe that the following accounting policies involve a high degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of our operations. See Note 1 "Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, for a description of our other significant accounting policies. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the amounts reported in those financial statements and accompanying notes. Although we believe that the estimates we use are reasonable, due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making those estimates, actual results reported in future periods could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition We derive our revenues from subscriptions and professional services. We recognize revenues when a contract exists between the Company and a customer and upon transfer of control of promised products or services to such customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of subscriptions and professional services, which may be capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations, or in the case of offerings such as subscriptions, services and support, accounted for as a single performance obligation. Revenues are recognized net of allowances and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. We determine revenue recognition through the following steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer; 48 Table of Contents Identification of the performance obligations in the contract; Determination of the transaction price; Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and Recognition of revenues when, or as, the Company satisfies a performance obligation. Subscription Revenues Subscription revenues primarily consist of fees for providing customers access to our solutions, with routine customer support and maintenance related to email and phone support, bug fixes, and unspecified software updates and upgrades released when and if available during the maintenance term. Revenues are generally recognized on a ratable basis over the contract term beginning on the date that our service is made available to the customer, which we believe best reflects the manner in which our customers utilize our subscription offerings. Arrangements with customers do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of the software supporting the cloud-based application service at any time and, as a result, are accounted for as a service contract. Generally, our subscription contracts are three to five years in length, billed annually in advance, are non-cancelable, and do not contain refund-type provisions. U.S. mortgage contracts are generally billed monthly in advance. Subscription arrangements that are cancelable generally have penalty clauses. Professional Services and Other Revenues Professional services and other revenues primarily consist of fees for deployment, configuration, and optimization services, as well as training. The majority of our professional services contracts revenues are recognized over time based on a proportional performance methodology which utilizes input methods. Professional services contracts are billed on a time and materials or fixed fee basis. Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations. For these contracts, we account for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price (SSP) basis. We determine SSP by considering its overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical sales, and contract prices. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify its pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes to SSP. Given the variability of pricing, we use a range of SSP. We determine the SSP range using information that may include market conditions or other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of products and services by customer size. Remaining performance obligations ("RPOs") represent contracted revenues that have not yet been recognized, including deferred revenue and unbilled amounts that we expect will be recognized as revenues in future periods. Our reported RPO balance is influenced by several factors, including the timing of renewals, average contract terms, and foreign currency exchange rates. Because we often enter into large, multi-year contracts and the timing of renewal of these contracts varies by customer, our reported RPOs may fluctuate significantly from period to period, and we do not believe this measure is a useful gauge of our future performance. For these reasons, we do not use RPOs as a tool for managing our business. Business Combinations We use our best estimates and assumptions to assign fair value to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. We determine the fair value of intangible assets acquired in consultation with third-party valuation advisors. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The determination of fair value requires management to make significant estimates, particularly with respect to intangible assets. These estimates can include, but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from subscriptions contracts and acquired developed technologies; historical and expected customer attrition rates and anticipated growth in revenue from acquired customers; royalty rates applied to acquired developed technology platforms and other intangible assets; 49 Table of Contents assumptions about the period of time and intended use of acquired intangible assets; discount rates; and uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances While we use our best estimates and assumptions, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company may record adjustments to the fair value of these tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company's consolidated statements of operations. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment as different types of intangible assets have different lives. Income Taxes Accrued income taxes are reported as a component of either prepaid expenses and other current assets or accrued expenses and other current liabilities, as appropriate, in our consolidated balance sheets and reflect our estimate of income taxes to be paid or received. Deferred income taxes represent the amount of future income taxes to be paid or refunded and are accounted for using the asset and liability method. Temporary differences are the differences between the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases. We recognize deferred tax assets for temporary deductible differences and deferred tax liabilities for temporary taxable differences. Deferred tax assets are also recorded for any tax attributes, such as net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards. A valuation allowance is provided against a deferred tax asset when we determine that it is more likely than not that all, or a portion of, the balance will not be realized. This requires management to utilize significant judgement and the use of estimates. Any realization of the Companys deferred tax assets is based upon the evaluation of four sources of taxable income, the future reversals of taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years, and tax-planning strategies. At January 31, 2025, we determined that it is more likely than not that the majority of our deferred tax assets will not be realized and as such, recorded a valuation allowance of $160.3 million against our deferred tax assets of $218.0 million as of that date. The Company is subject to income tax in the U.S., multiple state and local jurisdictions and various foreign countries. The tax laws and regulations in each jurisdiction may be interpreted differently in certain situations, which could result in differing financial results. The Company is required to exercise judgement regarding the application of these tax laws and regulations. Through this judgement process, the Company will evaluate and recognize any tax liabilities related to any income tax uncertainties. Due to the complexity of any uncertainty, the ultimate resolution may result in a remittance that is different from the current estimate of any tax liabilities. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 "Summary of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" of the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted, if applicable.