Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Combined Financial Statements and notes thereto included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q and our Combined Financial Statements and notes thereto and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Registration Statement on Form 10, initially filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 26, 2023 and as further amended thereafter and declared effective on August 11, 2023 (as amended, the Form 10), and in our information statement dated August 14, 2023, for the year ended December 31, 2022. The section of this Form 10-Q titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See the sections of the Form 10-Q titled Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements included in this information statement have been derived from NCRs historical accounting records and are presented on a stand-alone basis as if NCR Atleoss operations had been conducted independently from NCR. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and NCRs historical accounting policies, by aggregating financial information from the components of NCR Atleos and NCRs accounting records directly attributable to NCR Atleos. The Condensed Combined Statements of Operations include all revenues and costs directly attributable to NCR Atleos, including costs for facilities, functions and services used by NCR Atleos. NCR Atleoss businesses have historically functioned together with the other businesses controlled by NCR. Accordingly, NCR Atleos relied on NCRs corporate overhead and other support functions for its business. Therefore, certain corporate overhead and shared costs have been allocated to NCR Atleos including (i) certain general and administrative expenses related to NCR support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within NCR (e.g., expenses for corporate facilities, executive oversight, treasury, finance, legal, human resources, compliance, information technology, employee benefit plans, stock compensation plans, and other corporate functions) and (ii) certain operations support costs incurred by NCR, including product sourcing, maintenance and support services, and other supply chain functions. These expenses have been specifically identified, when possible, or allocated based on revenues, headcount, usage or other allocation methods that are considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or benefit received. Management considers that such allocations have been made on a reasonable basis consistent with benefits received but may not necessarily be indicative of the costs that would have been incurred if NCR Atleos had been operated on a standalone basis for the periods presented. Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the quarter as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying Condensed Combined Statements of Operations by comparing the results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023 to the results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022. Financial condition, liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at June 30, 2023. OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW NCR Atleos is an industry-leading financial technology company providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base including financial institutions, merchants, manufacturers, retailers and consumers. Self-directed banking is a rapidly growing, secular trend that allows banking customers to transact seamlessly between various channels all for the same transaction. Our comprehensive solutions enable the acceleration of self-directed banking through ATM and interactive teller machine (ITM) technology, including software, services, hardware and our proprietary Allpoint network. While we provide all our solutions on a modular basis, we have also assembled these capabilities into a turnkey, end-to-end platform which we have branded ATM-as-a-Service. 25 Table of Contents NCR Atleos operates two leading business segments focused on facilitating self-service banking through ATMs supported by a shared set of tools, systems and platforms. In addition, we operate a Telecommunications and Technology (T&T) segment offering managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. We manage our operations in the following segments: Self-Service Banking, Payments & Network, and T&T. Self-Service Banking - Offers solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer solutions to manage and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that include back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Payments & Network - Provides a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, and neobanks to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our Allpoint retail-based ATM network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via NCRPay360. We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions as well as ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses. T&T - Offers managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. Our customers rely on us as a strategic partner to help them reduce complexity, improve cost efficiency, and enable global geographical reach. We deliver expert professional, field, and remote services for modern network technologies including Software-Defined Wide Area Networking, Network Functions Virtualization, Wireless Local Area Networks, Optical Networking, and Edge Networks. SPIN-OFF FROM NCR On September 15, 2022, NCR announced its plan to separate its businesses into two distinct, publicly traded companies. As part of the spin-off, NCR Atleos, LLC was formed as a limited liability company in Delaware on April 14, 2023 to hold, directly or indirectly, the NCR Atleos business and conduct certain operational activities in anticipation of the planned spin-off. Pursuant to a reorganization, prior to the spin-off, NCR Atleos, LLC will convert into a Maryland corporation. We expect to incur certain costs in connection with our establishment as a standalone public company (the Separation-related costs). The Separation-related costs include one-time and non-recurring expenses associated with the separation and stand up of functions required to operate as a stand-alone public entity. These non-recurring costs primarily relate to system implementation costs, business and facilities separation, applicable employee related costs, development of our brand and other matters. We expect the Separation-related costs will continue through at least fiscal year 2024. The spin-off is intended to be structured in a tax-free manner. The spin-off transaction will follow the satisfaction of customary conditions as described in the Form 10 and in our information statement, dated August 14, 2023. There are no assurances as to when the planned spin-off will be completed, if at all. RELATIONSHIP WITH NCR In connection with the spin-off, we will enter into the separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with NCR. These agreements will provide a framework for our relationship with NCR and govern various interim and ongoing relationships between NCR Atleos and NCR. These agreements with NCR are described in the section of the information statement titled Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAgreements with NCR. STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS NCR Atleos is expected to be a cash-generative business positioned to focus on delivering ATM-as-a-Service to a large, installed customer base across banks and retailers. We believe it will build on our leadership in self-service banking and ATM networks to meet global demand for ATM access and leverage new ATM transaction types, including digital currency solutions, to drive market growth. NCR Atleos is expected to also continue shifting to a highly recurring revenue model to drive stable cash flow and capital returns to shareholders. 26 Table of Contents Additionally, we plan to capitalize on opportunities presented by the acquisitions of Cardtronics plc (Cardtronics) and LibertyX to accelerate our Payments & Network business as we go to market with a more robust offering in this segment. Cardtronics is expected to accelerate our ATM-as-a-Service strategy by adding the Allpoint debit network and LibertyX is expected to enable NCR Atleos to provide a digital currency solution, including the ability to buy Bitcoin, and conduct cross-border remittance using Bitcoin. We also plan to continue to improve our execution to drive solid returns and to transform our business to enhance value for all shareholders. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, NCR Atleos and its customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. NCR maintains cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures, which it regularly evaluates for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. We intend to adopt similar policies. These policies and procedures include internal notifications and engagements and, as necessary, cooperation with law enforcement. Personnel involved in handling and responding to cybersecurity events periodically undertake tabletop exercises to simulate an event. NCRs internal notification procedures include notifying the applicable NCR attorneys, which, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event, may include direct notice to, among others, NCRs General Counsel, Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Chief Privacy Officer. Company attorneys support efforts to evaluate the materiality of any incidents, determine whether notice to third parties such as customers or vendors is required, determine whether any prohibition on insider trading is appropriate, and assess whether disclosure to stockholders or governmental filings, including with the SEC, are required. NCRs internal notification procedures also include notifying various NCR Information Technology Services managers, subject matter experts in NCRs software department and NCR leadership, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event. For further information on potential risks and uncertainties, see Item 1A Risk Factors, of the Form 10 and Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors, of this Form 10-Q, as applicable. Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures as a result of supply chain challenges, foreign currency fluctuations, and spikes in commodity and energy prices as a result of geopolitical challenges, including the war in Eastern Europe, and the lingering impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to navigate through these challenges with a sharp focus on helping our customers, managing impacts on our supply chain and safeguarding our employees. Despite the unprecedented environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. The war in Eastern Europe and related sanctions imposed on Russia and related actors have resulted in interest rate acceleration, which is driving higher cost of vault cash agreements, and inflation, including, but not limited to, a significant increase in the price of energy around the world, particularly in regions such as Europe that are significantly dependent on Russia for their energy needs, and continued commodity price increases due to disruption in the mining industry in Ukraine and other factors. The war in Eastern Europe has also contributed to further disruption in logistics due to the shipping difficulties in and around the Black Sea and its ports, which have resulted in the rerouting of traffic to other ports and further logistics challenges. Inflation has also impacted wage inflation, both internally and with our suppliers that are primarily based on labor rates. The recent bank failures, during the first and second quarters of 2023, in addition to other global macroeconomic conditions, have caused a degree of uncertainty in the investor community and among bank customers, and could significantly impact the national, regional and local banking industry and the global business environment in which NCR Atleos operates. The Company does not believe that the circumstances of these bank failures are indicators of broader issues within the banking system. However, if there is a severe or prolonged economic downturn, it could result in a variety of risks to our business, including driving banking customers to tighten budgets and curtail spending, which would negatively impact our sales and business. We believe the impact of COVID-19 on our business has largely diminished at this time; however, uncertainties continue, particularly around disruptions to the global supply chain and shifting consumer behaviors. If conditions related to the pandemic were to deteriorate (whether due to the emergence of new variants or otherwise), we expect that parts of our business could again suffer negative impacts from the pandemic. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of these activities. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. 27 Table of Contents For further information on the risks posed to our business from the COVID-19 pandemic and other geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors, of the Companys Form 10 and related information statement, including the risk factor titled A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. For further information on exposures to foreign exchange risk, refer to Item 3,