Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 (the 2022 Form 10-K). Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the quarter as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 to the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at September 30, 2023. OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW NCR Voyix Corporation (Voyix, NCR, the Company, we or us), which, prior to its name change effective October 13, 2023 was known as NCR Corporation, was originally incorporated in 1884 and is a software- and services-led enterprise technology provider that runs stores, restaurants and self-directed banking for our customers, which includes businesses of all sizes. We are a global company that is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Our software platform, which runs in the cloud and includes microservices and APIs that integrate with our customers systems, and our NCR-as-a-Service solutions bring together all of the capabilities and competencies to power the technology to run our customers operations. Our portfolio includes digital first software and services offerings for banking, retailers and restaurants, as well as payments processing and networks, multi-vendor connected device services, automated teller machines (ATMs), self-checkout (SCO) kiosks and related technologies, point of sale (POS) terminals and other self-service technologies. We also resell third-party networking products and provide related service offerings in the telecommunications and technology sector. Our solutions are designed to support our transition to becoming a software platform and payments company. Completion of NCR Atleos Spin-Off Transaction On September 15, 2022, we announced a plan to separate into two independent, publicly traded companies one focused on digital commerce, the other on ATMs. On October 16, 2023, we completed our separation of our ATM-focused business, including our self-service banking, payments & network and telecommunications and technology businesses, through the spin-off of our wholly owned subsidiary, NCR Atleos Corporation (Atleos), (the Spin-Off). The Spin-Off was effected through a pro rata distribution of all outstanding shares of Atleos common stock to holders of Voyix common stock as of the close of business on October 2, 2023 (the record date). We distributed one share of Atleos common stock for every two common shares of Voyix outstanding as of the record date. Shareholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Atleos common stock. The Spin-Off is expected to qualify as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Atleos is an independent, publicly traded company focused on providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base, including financial institutions, retailers and consumers, and Voyix retains no ownership interest. Atleoss common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol NATL. The historical financial results of Atleos are included in these condensed consolidated financial statements. Subsequent to the Spin-Off, and in future filings, the historical results of Atleos will be reflected as discontinued operations in the Companys consolidated financial statements. Disclosures pertaining to Atleoss issuance of debt in connection with the Spin-Off are provided in Note 5, Debt Obligations. Refer to Note 6, Trade Receivables Facility, Note 7, Income Taxes, Note 8, Stock Compensation Plans, Note 9, Employee Benefit Plans, Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, Note 11, Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and Note 13, Derivatives and Hedging Instruments for additional disclosures related to the Spin-Off. 44 Table of Contents In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company and Atleos entered into various agreements to effect the Spin-Off and provide a framework for the relationship between the Company and Atleos after the Spin-Off. Such agreements include the separation and distribution agreement, as well as the following ongoing agreements: a transition services agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, patent and technology cross-license agreement, trademark license and use agreement, master services agreement, manufacturing services agreement and various other transaction agreements. Under these agreements, we will continue to provide certain products and services to Atleos following the Spin-Off. Our Segments Prior to the October 16, 2023 Spin-Off, and during the quarter ended September 30, 2023, we managed and reported our operations in the following segments: Retail, Hospitality, Digital Banking, Payments & Network, and Self-Service Banking. Retail - We offer software-led solutions to customers in the retail industry, leading with digital to connect retail operations end to end to integrate all aspects of a customers operations in indoor and outdoor settings from POS, to payments, inventory management, fraud and loss prevention applications, loyalty and consumer engagement. These solutions include retail-oriented technologies such as comprehensive API-point of sale retail software platforms and applications, hardware terminals, self-service kiosks including SCO, payment processing and merchant acquiring solutions, and bar-code scanners. Hospitality - We offer technology solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, including table-service, quick-service and fast casual restaurants of all sizes, that are designed to improve operational efficiency, increase customer satisfaction, streamline order and transaction processing and reduce operating costs. Our solutions include POS hardware and software solutions, payment processing and merchant acquiring services, installation, maintenance, as well as managed and professional services. Digital Banking - Digital Banking helps financial institutions implement their digital-first platform strategy by providing solutions for account opening, account management, transaction processing, imaging, and branch services to enable financial institutions to offer a compelling customer experience. Payments & Network - We provide a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, and neobanks to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our Allpoint retail-based ATM network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via NCRPay360. We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions, ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses, as well as payment processing and merchant acquiring services in the retail, hospitality and other industries. Self-Service Banking - We offer solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer solutions to manage and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that includes back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Corporate and Other includes income and expenses related to corporate functions that are not specifically attributable to an individual reportable segment along with any immaterial operating segment(s). Eliminations include revenues from contracts with customers and the related costs that are reported in the Payments & Network segment as well as in the Retail or Hospitality segments, including merchant acquiring services that are monetized via payments. Concurrently with the Spin-Off on October 16, 2023, the Company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system, including the Companys reportable segments. Following the Spin-Off, the Company will manage its reports and operations using three reportable segments - Retail, Restaurant (formerly reported as Hospitality) and Digital Banking. These changes will impact the Companys reportable segments beginning in the fourth quarter of 2023. Our reputation is founded upon over 139 years of providing quality products, services and solutions to our customers. At the heart of our customer and other business relationships is a commitment to acting responsibly, ethically and with the highest 45 Table of Contents level of integrity. This commitment is reflected in our Code of Conduct, which is available on the Corporate Governance page of our website. SIGNIFICANT THEMES AND EVENTS The following were significant themes and events for the third quarter of 2023. Revenue of $2,017 million, up 2% compared to the prior year period Recurring revenue increased 7% from the prior year and comprised 65% of total consolidated revenue Continued strength in strategic initiatives Separation of NCR Corporation into two independent, publicly traded companies announced on September 15, 2022, completed on October 16, 2023 STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS In order to provide long-term value to all our stakeholders, we set complementary business goals and financial strategies. We are continuing its transition to become a software platform and payments company with a shift to a higher level of recurring revenue. Our business goal is to be a leading enterprise technology provider that runs stores, restaurants and self-directed banking through our software platform and our NCR-as-a-Service solutions. Execution of our goals and strategy is driven by the following key pillars: (i) focus on our customers; (ii) take care of our employees; (iii) bring high-quality, innovative products to market; and (iv) leverage our brand. We also plan to continue to improve our execution to drive solid returns and to transform our business to enhance value for all stockholders. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, the Company and its customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks (including the ransomware incident announced April 17, 2023). We maintain cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures including disclosure controls, which we regularly evaluate for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. These policies and procedures include internal notifications and engagements and, as necessary, cooperation with law enforcement. Personnel involved in handling and responding to cybersecurity events periodically undertake tabletop exercises to simulate an event. Our internal notification procedures include notifying the applicable Company attorneys, which, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event, may include direct notice to, among others, our General Counsel, Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Chief Privacy Officer. Our attorneys support efforts to evaluate the materiality of any incidents, determine whether notice to third parties such as customers or vendors is required, determine whether any prohibition on insider trading is appropriate, and assess whether disclosure to stockholders or governmental filings, including with the SEC, are required. Our internal notification procedures also include notifying various Information Technology Services managers, subject matter experts in our software department and Company leadership, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event. For further information on potential risks and uncertainties, see Part 1, Item 1A Risk Factors, of the 2022 Form 10-K and Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors, of this Form 10-Q, as applicable. Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures as a result of supply chain challenges, foreign currency fluctuations, and spikes in interest rates, commodity and energy prices as a result of geopolitical challenges, including those due in part to the conflict between Israel and Hamas. We continue to navigate through these challenges with a sharp focus on and goal of safeguarding our employees, helping our customers and managing impacts on our supply chain. Despite the rapidly changing environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the duration and severity of these geopolitical and other macroeconomic pressures and any governmental and public actions taken in response. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. For further information on the risks posed to our business from the COVID-19 pandemic and other geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of the Companys 2022 Form 10-K. For further information on 46 Table of Contents exposures to foreign exchange risk, refer to Item 3,