Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. RISK FACTOR SUMMARY The following is a summary of certain risks and uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Risks Associated with our Strategy & Technology If we do not successfully execute our business strategy, including our strategic initiatives to grow and transform our business, our operating results could be negatively impacted. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing markets in which we do business, our business results may be impacted. If we do not compete effectively within the competitive markets we serve, we may not be successful. If we fail to maintain a consistently high level of customer service or if we fail to manage our reputation, our brand, business and financial results may be harmed. If we are unable to successfully manage our profitability and cost reduction initiatives, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with the Spin-Off of NCR Atleos We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the Spin-Off of NCR Atleos. If the Spin-Off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it could result in substantial tax liability for us and our stockholders. We may be held liable to NCR Atleos if we fail to perform under our agreements with NCR Atleos, and the performance of such services may negatively affect our business and operations. Potential indemnification obligations to NCR Atleos or a refusal of NCR Atleos to indemnify us pursuant to agreements executed in the Spin-Off could materially adversely affect us. Risks Associated with our Business & Operations Data protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could negatively impact our business. Our business may be negatively affected by domestic and global economic and credit conditions. A downturn, consolidation or decrease in technology spend in the financial services industry could harm our digital banking business. Disruptions in our data center hosting and public cloud facilities could adversely affect our business. If we are unable to maintain and update our information technology systems to meet the needs of our business, our business could be adversely impacted. If we do not retain key employees, or attract quality new and replacement employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. If third party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to timely bring our products to market could be affected. Our payments-related business subjects us to additional regulatory requirements and other risks and uncertainties that could be costly and difficult to comply with or that could harm our business. Our international operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management efforts may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure, which could expose us to losses and liability and otherwise harm our business. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. 9 Table of Contents Our historical manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Risks Associated with our Finance & Accounting Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Despite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and other liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness. If we are unable to continue to access or renew financing sources and obtain capital, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be impaired. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities bear interest at a variable rate, which could cause our debt service obligations or other costs of capital under our senior secured credit facilities to increase significantly. The terms governing our trade receivables facility, including the length of term, financial and other covenants, and obligations to remit collections on the sold receivables could restrict or otherwise limit our financial and business operations. Certain changes in control may result in an acceleration of our indebtedness or our obligations under other financing arrangements, or may require us to repurchase our senior unsecured notes or our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to us or our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future capital costs and reduce our access to capital. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate our material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Associated with Law & Compliance Failure to protect intellectual property, and issues related to third party intellectual property can have an adverse effect. Changes to our tax rates and additional income tax liabilities could impact profitability. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. Risks Associated with our Governance Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock differing from those of our common stockholders. The issuance of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock reduces the relative voting power of holders of our common stock, and the conversion and sale of those shares would dilute the ownership of such holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We could be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. STRATEGY AND TECHNOLOGY If we do not successfully execute our business strategy, including our strategic initiatives to grow and transform our business, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We have taken steps toward executing on our strategy to transform the Company to a platform-led software and services business, including the Spin-Off of our ATM-focused business. Our focus on increased software and services revenue, as well as recurring revenue, includes a shift away from perpetual license-based products that yield revenue recognized at an earlier point in time to a term license model, that includes a termination for convenience which could have a negative impact on our revenue and margin. Successful execution of our strategy depends on a number of different factors including, among others, our ability to attract new customers, maintain existing customers, and attract additional customers to our commerce platform; developing, deploying and supporting the next generation of digital first software and cloud solutions for the industries we serve; market acceptance of our new and existing software and cloud solutions; adoption by new and existing customers of our payment solutions; enabling our sales force to use a consultative selling model that better incorporates our comprehensive and new solutions; transform our services performance, capabilities and coverage to improve efficiency; incorporate remote diagnostic and other technologies, such as artificial intelligence, that align with and support our solutions; cross-sell 10 Table of Contents additional products and services to our existing customer base; manage professional services and other costs associated with large solution roll-outs; and integrating, and developing and supporting software gained through acquisitions. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract additional customers to our commerce platform. Our ability to convert existing customers to our platform or attract new customers to commerce platform depends on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our sales team, the success of our marketing efforts, our levels of investment in expanding our sales and marketing teams, referrals by existing customers, and the availability of competitive technology platforms. In addition, we continue to pursue growth with small- and medium-sized and mid-market businesses in our retail and restaurant segments by increasing our use of indirect sales channels, and by developing, marketing and selling solutions aimed for such businesses. It is not yet certain whether these initiatives will yield the anticipated benefits, or whether our solutions will be compelling and attractive to small- and medium-sized businesses. If we are not successful in attracting additional customers to our commerce platform, expanding our customer base at the rate that we anticipate, implementing and managing these initiatives, or if the costs to complete these initiatives is higher than anticipated, we may not meet our growth and gross margin projections or expectations, and operating results could be negatively impacted. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing markets in which we do business, our business results may be impacted. Our growth and profitability depend on our ability to develop and introduce new solutions in the retail, restaurant and digital banking markets. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from our product development teams as well as suppliers of the components embedded or incorporated in our solutions. To support our growth, we expect to continue to spend and may increase our capital expenditures to enhance our products and platform capabilities. In addition, certain of our solutions, including our cloud solutions, may require us to build, lease or expand, and maintain, infrastructure (such as hosting centers) to support them. The development process can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. In addition, our success may be impacted by safety and security technology and industry standards. We may not be able to anticipate our customers needs and technological and industry trends accurately, or to complete development of new solutions efficiently. Further, once we have developed new solutions, if we cannot successfully market and sell those solutions, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. As we develop, acquire, and introduce new technologies, including those that incorporate artificial intelligence and machine learning, we may be subject to new or heightened legal, ethical, and other challenges, including the ability to innovate as quickly as our competitors as well as increased research and development expenses. In addition, contract terms, market conditions or customer preferences may affect our ability to limit, sunset or end-of-life our older products in a timely or cost-effective fashion. If any of these risks materialize, we may be unable to introduce new solutions into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results could be impacted. Likewise, we sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. We face extensive competition in our markets and if we do not compete effectively, we may not be successful. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advances, intense competition among existing and emerging competitors, and frequent new product introductions. We face a variety of competitors in the retail, restaurant and digital banking markets and our competitors also include other large companies in the information technology industry, many of which have more financial and technical resources than we do. Our future success depends on our ability to anticipate and identify changes in customer needs and/or relevant technologies, quickly respond to customer requirements, and rapidly and effectively introduce new and innovative products, features, and functions, while maintaining the integrity, quality, and competitiveness of our existing products. If we fail in these efforts, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could suffer, and our ability to achieve and sustain profitability adversely impacted. Our business and operating performance also could be impacted by external competitive pressures, such as consolidation, increasing price erosion and the entry of new competitors and technologies into our existing product and geographic markets. In addition, our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third-party financing companies, and in the case of customer default, these financing companies may be forced to resell this equipment at discounted prices, competing with us and impacting our ability to sell incremental units. The impact of these product and pricing pressures could include lower customer satisfaction, decreased demand for our solutions, loss of market share and reduction of operating profits. If we fail to maintain a consistently high level of customer service or if we fail to manage our reputation, our brand, business and financial results may be harmed. We believe our focus on customer service and support is critical to attract and onboard new customers, retain our existing customers and grow our business. If we are unable to maintain a consistently high level of customer service, including through our use of third-party service providers or by leveraging evolving technology such as artificial 11 Table of Contents intelligence, our ability to grow our operations may be harmed and we may need to hire additional support personnel, which could harm our margins and results of operations. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer support, could adversely affect our reputation and brand, our ability to benefit from referrals by existing customers, our ability to sell cross-sell our products and services to existing and prospective customers, and our business, financial condition, or results of operations. If we are unable to successfully manage our profitability and cost reduction initiatives, our operating results could be adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we have implemented strategic cost initiatives that we believe will drive operating efficiencies and margin expansion and we may engage in similar efforts in the future. As these plans and actions are complex, we may not be able to achieve the operating efficiencies to reduce costs or realize benefits that were anticipated in connection with these initiatives. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the ongoing difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. If we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions may not produce anticipated results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our Company. For example, we completed the Spin-Off of our ATM-business on October 16, 2023. Such transactions present significant challenges and risks, as the market for acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions is highly competitive, especially in light of industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. If we are unsuccessful in completing such transactions or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives of such transactions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and a variety of factors may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions face difficulties, including, but not limited to, the following: disruption to our business and the successful execution of our growth strategy; diversion of managements focus from other business operations; increased capital and research and development expenses and resource allocation; delays or difficulties in the assimilation and integration of different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures (such as data centers) and technologies or solutions acquired or licensed, while maintaining quality, and designing and implementing appropriate risk management measures; failure to retain key employees and talent associated with the current or acquired business; incurring significant transaction fees and costs, impairment charges or other losses related to divestitures; assuming unintended liabilities; the possibility of conflict with joint venture or alliance partners regarding strategic direction, prioritization of objectives and goals, governance matters or operations. There is risk that the integration and development of new technology or solutions may take longer than anticipated and may not meet estimated growth projections or expectations, or investment recipients may not successfully execute their business plans. Further, we may not achieve the projected efficiencies and synergies once we have integrated the business into our operations, which may lead to the impairment or write down of assets, and other additional costs not anticipated at the time of acquisition. In the case of a divestiture, we may have difficulty finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. In addition, we may experience fewer benefits than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our financial performance may be larger than projected. The failure of acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions to perform as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. SPIN-OFF OF NCR ATLEOS The Spin-Off of NCR Atleos may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits and may adversely affect our business. On October 16, 2023, we completed the separation of our ATM business through the Spin-Off of NCR Atleos. We may not be able to achieve the full strategic, financial, operational, and other benefits that are expected to result from the Spin-Off, or such benefits may be delayed. We cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the Spin-Off will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, or that the costs or dis-synergies of the transaction will not exceed the anticipated amounts. If we fail to 12 Table of Contents achieve some or all of the benefits expected to result from the Spin-Off, or if such benefits are delayed, our business could be harmed. Following the Spin-Off, we are a smaller company with a less diversified product portfolio and a narrower business focus. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions and the other risks impacting our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Spin-Off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it could result in substantial tax liability for the Company and its stockholders. We received an opinion of counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Spin-Off qualifies for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. However, the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from the Company and NCR Atleos, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters, and the opinion would not be valid if such assumptions, representations and undertakings were incorrect. Furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts. If the Spin-Off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Companys stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and the Company could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of NCR Atleos are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Spin-Off. In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with NCR Atleos, pursuant to which NCR Atleos agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause the Spin-Off or any related transactions to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. In addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. The Company may be held liable to NCR Atleos if it fails to perform under its agreements with NCR Atleos, and the performance of such services may negatively affect the Companys business and operations. In connection with the Spin-Off, the Company and NCR Atleos entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements (including a transition services agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, patent and technology cross-license agreement, trademark license and use agreement, master services agreement) that provide for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the Spin-Off. If the Company does not satisfactorily perform its obligations under these agreements, it may be held liable for any resulting losses suffered by NCR Atleos, subject to certain limits. In addition, during the transition services periods under these agreements, the Companys management and employees may be required to divert their attention away from its business in order to provide services to NCR Atleos, which could adversely affect the Companys business. Potential indemnification obligations to NCR Atleos or a refusal of NCR Atleos to indemnify us pursuant to agreements executed in the Spin-Off could materially adversely affect us. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements the Company entered into with NCR Atleos in connection with the Spin-Off, the Company and NCR Atleos agree to indemnify the other for certain liabilities. The indemnities from NCR Atleos for our benefit may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and NCR Atleos may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from NCR Atleos any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. In addition, our indemnity obligations to NCR Atleos may be significant. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. BUSINESS OPERATIONS Data protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could negatively impact our business. Our products and services, including our cloud and hosted solutions as well as our payments and networking solutions, facilitate financial and other transactions for the customers in the industries we serve. As a result, we collect, use, transmit and store certain of the transaction and personal data of our customers and end-users. We also have access to transaction and personal data of our customers and their customers through or in the course of servicing our products or third-party products. Additionally, we collect, use and store personal data of our employees and the personnel of our business partners, such as resellers, suppliers and contractors, in the ordinary course of business. While we have programs and measures in place designed to protect and safeguard this data, and while we have implemented access controls designed to limit the risk of unauthorized use or disclosure by employees and contractors, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to this data are complex and changing, as are the underlying objectives of the attacker, like targeted business disruption, financial impact, intellectual property theft, political motives, or sophisticated nation-state sponsored and organized cyber-criminal activity, and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. An attack, disruption, intrusion, denial of service, theft or other breach, or an inadvertent act by an employee or contractor, could result in unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, this data, resulting in claims, costs and reputational harm that could negatively affect our operating results. We may also detect, or may receive notice from third parties (including governmental agencies) regarding potential vulnerabilities in our information technology systems, our products, or third-party products used in conjunction with our products or our business. In the course of our business activities, the Company contracts with numerous suppliers, vendors and resellers who may experience a cybersecurity, data 13 Table of Contents protection or privacy issue that could negatively affect our operating results. Even if these potential vulnerabilities do not result in a data breach, their existence can adversely affect marketplace confidence and reputation. To the extent such vulnerabilities require remediation, such remedial measures could require significant resources and may not be implemented before such vulnerabilities are exploited. As the landscape evolves, we may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect information and infrastructure. Like most companies, the Company is regularly the subject of cyberattacks, which may involve personal data. Most cyberattacks are detected, prevented or mitigated by the Companys various information technology and data protections, including but not limited to firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system, identity management technology, security analytics, encryption and multi-factor authentication. There can be no assurance that our protections will be successful. On April 13, 2023, the Company determined that a single data center outage impacting certain of its commerce customers was caused by a cyber ransomware incident. Upon such determination, the Company immediately started contacting customers, enacted its cybersecurity protocol and engaged outside experts to contain the incident and begin the recovery process. Following an extensive investigation which included Company experts, external forensic cybersecurity experts and federal law enforcement, among others, the Company concluded that this incident impacted operations for some customers only with respect to specific Aloha cloud-based services and Counterpoint. Functionality has been fully restored to customers, and we built a new cloud environment to host the affected applications. We have incurred certain expenses related to the cyber ransomware incident and may incur additional costs relating to this incident in the future, including payment of damages or other costs to customers or others, any of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. We continue to assess the incident and cannot definitively determine, at this time, the full extent of the impact from such event on our business, results of operations or financial condition or whether such impact will ultimately have a material adverse effect. With regard to this incident, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied include (i) future claims from customers or other third parties, (ii) legal, reputational and financial risks resulting from the incident, (iii) the effectiveness of business continuity plans and cybersecurity risk management policies during the incident, (iv) the possibility that we will identify materially adverse findings arising from this incident that are not known to us on the date hereof. The Company has established relationships with cybersecurity firms and internal cybersecurity experts, which it engages in connection with certain suspected incidents. The costs arising from those engagements, which depending on the incident may include both investigatory and remedial efforts, have not to date been material to the Company. The Company also regularly undergoes evaluation of its protections against incidents, including both self-assessments and expert third-party assessments, and it regularly enhances those protections, both in response to specific threats and as part of the Companys efforts to stay current with advances in cybersecurity defense. When the Company experiences a confirmed cybersecurity incident it generally performs root cause analyses and in appropriate instances will implement additional controls based on those analyses. There can be no assurance that the Company or its cybersecurity consultants will be able to prevent or remediate all future incidents or that the cost associated with responding to any such incident will not be significant. The personal information and other data that we process and store also are subject to data security and data privacy obligations and laws of many jurisdictions, which are growing in complexity and sophistication as data becomes more enriched and technology and the global data protection landscape evolves. These laws may provide a private right of action for individuals alleging a breach of privacy rights, which may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with, data breach litigation. These laws may also conflict with one another, and many of them are subject to frequent modification and differing interpretations. The laws impose a significant compliance burden and include, for example, the European Unions (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act and the Brazilian General Data Protection Law. Complying with these evolving and varying standards could require significant expense and effort, and could require us to change our business practices or the functionality of our products and services in a manner adverse to our customers and our business. In addition, violations of these laws can result in significant fines, penalties, claims by regulators or other third-party lawsuits alleging significant damages, and damage to our brand and business. The GDPR, for example, includes fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer for failure to comply, and grants corrective powers to supervisory authorities including the ability to impose a limit on processing of personal data. The laws also cover the transfer of personal, financial and business information, including transfers of employee information between us and our subsidiaries, across international borders. The regulatory framework governing the collection, processing, storage, use, and sharing of certain information, particularly financial and other personal information, is rapidly evolving and is likely to continue to be subject to uncertainty and varying 14 Table of Contents interpretations. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our services and platform capabilities. Complying with these requirements and changing our policies and practices may be onerous and costly, and we may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to regulatory, legislative, and other developments. These changes may in turn impair our ability to offer our existing or planned features, products, and services, and/or increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any failure or perceived failure by us, or any third parties with which we do business, to comply with our posted privacy statements or notices, changing consumer expectations, evolving laws, rules and regulations, industry standards, or contractual obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject, may result in actions or other claims against us by governmental entities or private actors, the expenditure of substantial costs, time, and other resources or the incurrence of significant fines, penalties, or other liabilities. Any such action, particularly to the extent we were found to have engaged in violations or otherwise liable for damages, would damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The use of artificial intelligence and machine learning technologies, including generative artificial intelligence, has increased rapidly with increasing complexity and changes in the nature of the technology. Our use of artificial intelligence and machine learning is subject to various risks including the use of personal information, flaws in our models or datasets that may result in biased or inaccurate results, ethical considerations regarding artificial intelligence, and our ability to safely deploy and implement governance and controls for artificial intelligence systems. Additionally, laws and regulations related to automated decision making, artificial intelligence (including the EU Artificial Intelligence Regulation) and machine learning are still evolving and there is uncertainty as to new laws and regulations that will be adopted and the application of existing laws and regulations, which may restrict or impose burdensome and costly requirements on our ability to use artificial intelligence and machine learning. Adverse consequences of these risks related to artificial intelligence and machine learning could undermine the decisions, predictions or analysis such technologies produce and subject us to competitive harm, legal liability, heightened regulatory scrutiny and brand or reputational harm. Our business may be negatively affected by domestic and global economic and credit conditions. Our business is sensitive to the strength of domestic and global economic and credit conditions, particularly as they affect, either directly or indirectly, the financial, retail and restaurant sectors of the economy. Economic and credit conditions are influenced by a number of factors, including political conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates, commodity prices and government actions to stimulate economic growth. The imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial, retail and restaurant industries, new tax legislation across multiple jurisdictions, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices, among other things, have created a challenging and unpredictable environment in which to market the products and services of our various businesses across our different geographies and industries. A negative or unpredictable economic climate could create uncertainty or financial pressures that impact the ability or willingness of our customers to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their decision to purchase or roll out our products or services or, especially with respect to smaller customers, to pay accounts receivable owed to the Company. Additionally, if financial institutions respond to a negative or unpredictable economic climate by consolidation, it could reduce our base of potential customers. Negative or unpredictable global economic conditions also may have an adverse effect on our customers ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third party financing companies or on the number of payment processing transactions which could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. We derive a portion of our revenues from customers in the financial services industry, and any downturn, consolidation or decrease in technology spend in the financial services industry could harm our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from financial institutions, whose industry has experienced significant pressure in recent years due to economic and political uncertainty, liquidity concerns and increased regulation. In the recent past, financial institutions have experienced consolidation, distress and failure, and very few new financial institutions are being created. It is possible these conditions may continue into the future, and even if conditions improve for financial institutions, there can be no guarantee that these conditions will not reoccur. If any of our customers fail or merge with, or are acquired by, other entities, such as financial institutions that have internally developed banking technology solutions or that are not our customers or use our solutions less, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Financial institutions increasingly face competition from non-depository institutions or other innovative products or emerging technologies, such as cryptocurrencies, which may reduce the number of transactions using their more traditional financial services. It is also possible that consolidation among financial institutions could decrease the number of registered users by causing registered users to opt for fewer and deeper financial institution relationships, and larger financial institutions that result from business combinations could have greater leverage in 15 Table of Contents negotiating price or other terms with us or could decide to replace some or all of the elements of our solutions. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected by weak economic conditions in the financial services industry. Any downturn in the financial services industry may cause potential new clients and existing clients to forego or delay purchasing our solutions or reduce the amount of spend with us, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions in our data center hosting and public cloud facilities could adversely affect our business. Our software products are increasingly being offered and provided on a cloud or other hosted basis through data centers operated by the Company or third parties in the United States and other countries. In addition, certain applications and data that we use in our services offerings and our operations may be hosted or stored at such facilities. These facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters, including those exacerbated by the effects of climate change, telecommunications failures and similar events, or to armed hostilities or intentional acts of misconduct, such as security incidents (including the ransomware incident announced April 17, 2023) or interference (including by disgruntled employees, former employees or contractors). The occurrence of these events or acts, or any other unanticipated problems, at these facilities could result in damage to or the unavailability of these cloud hosting facilities. Such damage or unavailability could, despite existing disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements, interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings for our customers. We have experienced such interruptions and damage or unavailability which interrupt the availability of applications or data necessary to provide services or conduct critical operations. Interruptions in the availability of our data center or cloud offerings or our ability to service our customers could result in the failure to meet contracted up-time or service levels, which could cause us to issue credits or pay damages or penalties or cause customers to terminate or not renew subscriptions. Interruptions could also expose us to liability claims from customers and others, payment of damages or other amounts, negative publicity and the need to engage in costly remediation efforts, any of which could impact our business and reduce our revenue. If we are unable to maintain and update our information technology systems to meet the needs of our business, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on our information technology systems and certain third-party systems to effectively operate our business. We are currently in the process of reviewing and modernizing certain of our information technology systems and processes in order to simplify and improve our operations. There is a risk, however, that these efforts could materially and adversely disrupt our operations, could occur over a period longer than planned, or require greater than expected investment and other internal and external resources. It may take longer to realize the intended favorable benefits from these efforts than we expected. Our failure to properly and efficiently maintain and update our information technology systems, or the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate, could hinder our ability to attract new customers, cause us to incur legal liability, contractual penalties or cause us to lose existing customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not retain key employees, or attract quality new and replacement employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives.Our employees are vital to our success, including the successful execution of our transformative business strategy. Therefore, our ability to retain our key business leaders and our highly skilled software development, technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel, including key personnel of acquired businesses, is critical. Maintaining an inclusive culture and work environment is an important factor in attracting employees and retention. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive, and we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees. We may never realize returns on these investments. Key employees may decide to leave the Company for other opportunities or may be unavailable for health or other reasons. Changes of key business leaders could be disruptive to our business or delay the execution of our strategy, and as a result could cause fluctuation in our stock price. In addition, as our business model evolves, we may need to attract employees with different skill sets, experience and attributes to support that evolution. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, or we are unable to attract highly qualified new and replacement employees by offering competitive compensation, secure work environments, and leadership opportunities now and in the future, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. Many of our products are sophisticated and complex, and may incorporate third-party hardware and software. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that defects or errors will not be found in our products. If our products contain undetected defects or errors, or otherwise fail to meet our customers expectations, we could face the loss of customers, liability exposure and additional development costs. If defects or errors delay product installation or make it more difficult, we could experience delays in customer acceptance, or if our products require significant amounts of customer support, it could result in incremental costs to us. In addition, our customers who license and deploy our software may do so in both standard and non-standard configurations in different environments with different computer platforms, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may increase the likelihood of technical difficulties. Our products may be integrated with other components or software, and, in the event that there are defects or errors, it may be difficult to determine the origin of such defects or errors. Additionally, damage to, or failure or unavailability of, any significant aspect of our cloud hosting 16 Table of Contents facilities could interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings, which could cause disruption for our customers, and, in turn, their customers, and expose us to liability. If any of these risks materialize, they could result in additional costs and expenses, exposure to liability claims, diversion of technical and other resources to engage in remediation efforts, loss of customers or negative publicity, each of which could negatively impact our business and operating results. If third party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to timely bring our products to market could be affected. There are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in or in connection with our products. However, there are some services and components that are licensed or purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology, functionality or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses that provide us with critical products for our solutions. If we were unable to secure the necessary services or maintain current demand, including contract manufacturing, parts, software, components or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, our new and existing product shipments and solution deliveries, or the provision of contracted services, could be delayed, impacting our business and operating results. We have, from time to time, formed alliances with third parties that have complementary products, software, services and skills. These alliances represent many different types of relationships, such as outsourcing arrangements to manufacture hardware and subcontract agreements with third parties to perform services and provide products and software to our customers in connection with our solutions. These alliances introduce risks that we cannot control, such as nonperformance by third parties and difficulties with or delays in integrating elements provided by third parties into our solutions. Lack of information technology infrastructure, shortages in business capitalization, and manual processes and data integrity issues, particularly with smaller suppliers can also create product time delays, inventory and invoicing problems, and staging delays, as well as other operating issues. The failure of third parties to provide high-quality products or services that conform to required specifications or contractual arrangements could impair the delivery of our solutions on a timely basis, create exposure for non-compliance with our contractual commitments to our customers and impact our business and operating results. Also, some of these third parties have access to confidential Company and customer data, personal data, and sensitive data, the integrity and security of which are of significant importance to the Company. Our payments-related business subjects us to additional regulatory requirements and other risks and uncertainties that could be costly and difficult to comply with or that could harm our business. The majority of the electronic debit networks over which transactions are conducted require sponsorship by a bank, and the financial condition and results of operations of any sponsors and/or the inability to find a replacement may cause disruptions to our operations. In addition, bank sponsorship is required in order to process transactions over certain networks and payments solutions depend on our ability to secure these sponsor arrangements with financial institutions. Interchange fees may be lowered in some cases at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which transactions are routed, or through potential regulatory changes, thus reducing future revenues and operating profits. Future changes in interchange rates, some of which we have minimal or no control over, could have an adverse impact on our operations and cash flows. Non-compliance with established EFT network rules and regulations could expose us to fines, penalties or other liabilities and could negatively impact results of our operations and new EFT network rules and regulations could require significant amounts of capital to remain in compliance with such rules and regulations. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds could damage relationships with customers and expose us to liability. In addition, we are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for certain merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. We are subject to certain consumer protection requirements such as oversight by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the customer-facing nature of our payments-related business subjects us to increased risks of disputes with consumers, including litigation and class action litigation, and significant costs to address such matters. Our international operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the percentage of our revenue from outside of the United States was 33%, respectively. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: the impact of ongoing and future economic and credit conditions on the stability of national and regional economies and industries within those economies; political conditions and local regulations that could adversely affect demand for our solutions, our ability to access funds and resources, or our ability to sell products in these markets; the impact of a downturn in the global economy, or in regional economies, on demand for our products; competitive labor markets and increasing wages in markets that we operate in; currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses; 17 Table of Contents limited availability of local currencies to pay vendors, employees and third parties and to distribute funds outside of the country; changes to global or regional trade agreements that could limit our ability to sell products in these markets; the imposition of import or export tariffs, taxes, trade policies or import and export controls that could increase the expense of, or limit demand for our products; changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally; government uncertainty or limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, including as a result of new, or changes to, laws and regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; implementing and managing systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets; changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; longer collection cycles and the financial viability and reliability of contracting partners and customers; managing a geographically dispersed workforce, work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues; disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; and the impact of natural disasters, catastrophic events, civil unrest, war and terrorist activity on supply chains, the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments. These risks and challenges could result in an increase in our cost of doing business internationally, including shortages and increased costs of products and components, shipping delays, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, and restrictions on the repatriation of funds to the United States. In addition, our business is exposed to health epidemics and pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), war, terrorism, civil insurrection or social unrest, and other significant business interruptions that could lead to disruption, instability and volatility in the global economy and negatively impact us, and our suppliers, partners, and customers. We have employees and third-party consultants outside of the U.S. that provide software development and support services. A sustained loss of the software development services provided by international employees and third-party consultants could negatively impact our software development efforts, adversely affect our competitive position, harm our reputation, impede our ability to achieve and maintain profitability, and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our risk management efforts may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure, which could expose us to losses and liability and otherwise harm our business. We provide our customers with the latest innovations and technologies required to compete successfully and grow their businesses. Accordingly, our risk management policies, procedures, techniques, and processes may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks to which we are exposed, to enable us to mitigate the risks we have identified, or to identify additional risks to which we may become subject in the future as we expand our product and services offerings. If any of our risk management policies and processes are ineffective, or if we are not successful in identifying and mitigating all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer uninsured liability or harm to our reputation, or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely affected by a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, pandemics or other (actual or threatened) public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 outbreak, or other events beyond our control, and measures taken in response thereto. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane could have a material and adverse effect on our business and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Global climate change is resulting in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. We have operations all over the world and our sites in California, Texas, Florida, and India are particularly vulnerable to climate change effects. Acts of terrorism could also cause disruptions in our businesses or those of our customers, consumer demand or the economy as a whole. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in some circumstances. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our headquarters or facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in access to or functionality of our platform or could result in related liabilities, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our historical manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Our facilities and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, to comply, or to determine compliance, with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions. Given the uncertainties inherent in such activities, there can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not impact future operating results. We 18 Table of Contents have also been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, including the Kalamazoo River matter, as further described in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; in Government Regulations within Item 1 of Part I of this Report; and in Environmental and Legal Contingencies within the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate such disclosures by reference and make them a part of this discussion of risk factors. FINANCE & ACCOUNTING Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. At December 31, 2023, we had approximately $2.6 billion of total indebtedness outstanding. At December 31, 2023, we had approximately $351 million of secured revolving credit commitments undrawn and available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Our current level of indebtedness could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt, including obligations to repurchase our senior unsecured notes under our indentures following the occurrence of certain changes in control; limit our ability to borrow money or otherwise enter into financing arrangements that would provide us with additional capital if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all; limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing or access to financing on preferential terms; make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic, business and other conditions; and make us more susceptible to adverse changes in our credit ratings and those of our debt securities, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our obligations under our debt and other financing agreements materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be negatively affected. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations.Our credit agreement governing the senior secured facilities and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or otherwise limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets; engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities; make certain investments (including acquisitions); engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions; repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock; repay certain indebtedness; engage in certain affiliate transactions; and enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments. The senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes also contain certain affirmative covenants, and the senior secured credit agreement requires us to comply with a leverage ratio that measures our debt relative to our Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit agreement). 19 Table of Contents These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable debtholders, an event of default would result under the applicable agreements and under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the administrative agent or the required lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate the commitments under the senior secured credit agreement, or require us to deposit cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit. Upon a bankruptcy or insolvency event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, all outstanding amounts thereunder become due and payable and all commitments thereunder automatically terminate. If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the administrative agent or the lenders could, among other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes certain of our domestic assets and the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Upon an event of default under the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, the related trustee or the holders of our senior unsecured notes could declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. Despite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and similar liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness. Although the agreements governing our senior secured credit facilities and our senior unsecured notes include restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, those agreements do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or pursuing other financing arrangements. As a result, the amount of additional debt and other obligations that we could incur could be substantial. In addition, certain types of liabilities are not considered Indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement or the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, and our senior secured credit agreement and indentures do not impose any limitation on the amount of liabilities incurred by our subsidiaries, if any, that are designated as unrestricted subsidiaries under our senior secured credit agreement or indentures, as applicable. Accordingly, to the extent permitted under our senior secured credit agreement or indentures governing our unsecured notes, we could incur significant additional debt, liabilities or similar obligations in the future, some of which could constitute secured debt (such as additional debt under our senior secured credit agreement). In addition, if we form or acquire any subsidiaries in the future, those subsidiaries also could incur debt or similar liabilities. If new debt or similar liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. We may, from time to time, seek to opportunistically refinance, amend, reprice and/or otherwise replace any of our debt, obtain additional debt financing or enter into other financing arrangements, reduce or extend our debt, lower our interest payments or the cost of capital available to us under certain types of financing arrangements, or otherwise seek to improve our financial position or the terms of our debt or other financing agreements. These actions may include open market debt repurchases, negotiated repurchases, or other repayments, redemptions or retirements of our debt or other financing arrangements. The amount of debt that may be borrowed or issued, refinanced, and/or repurchased, repaid, redeemed or otherwise retired, if any, will depend on market conditions, trading levels of our debt, our cash position, compliance with our debt covenants and other considerations. Any such actions could impact our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to continue to access or renew financing sources and obtain capital, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be impaired. We use debt and other sources of financing to maintain and grow our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our senior secured credit facilities after their current maturity dates on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain additional or replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, our financial position, our results of operations, and the capacity for additional borrowing or other forms of financing under our existing financing arrangements. If our various financing alternatives were to become limited or unavailable, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business and our operations could be materially adversely affected. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful.Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors, which may include factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt 20 Table of Contents service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities bear interest at a variable rate which subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations or other costs of capital under our senior secured credit facilities to increase significantly.All of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities are priced using variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed were to remain the same. Although we may enter into interest rate swaps or similar instruments to reduce interest rate volatility in connection with our variable rate financing arrangements, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps or instruments will be effective. The terms governing our trade receivables facility, including the length of term, financial and other covenants, and obligations to remit collections on the sold receivables could restrict or otherwise limit our financial and business operations. During 2021, we amended our trade receivables facility to allow, among other things, one of our wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote special purposes entities (an SPE) to sell to PNC and other participating financial institutions an undivided ownership interest in a portion of the trade receivables owned by such SPE, in an amount not to exceed $288 million at any point in time. Our trade receivables facility has a term of two years and contains customary termination events, including termination events that are based on the performance of the pool of receivables, including the pools satisfaction of certain financial tests relating to the three-month rolling average ratios of defaults, delinquencies, dilution and days sales outstanding. If we fail to renew our trade receivable facility or a termination event occurs and we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable purchasers, we would be required to continue remitting collections to the purchasers until the facility was terminated, and we would no longer benefit from the liquidity provided to us by the ability to sell our receivables. Such a result could negatively impact the cash that we have available to use in our financial and business operations. A termination event under the trade receivables facility would also result in an event of default or a termination event under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. Certain changes in control may result in an acceleration of our indebtedness or our obligations under other financing arrangements, or may require us to repurchase our senior unsecured notes or our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Upon the occurrence of a change in control under the applicable indenture governing the applicable senior unsecured notes, holders of those notes may require us to repurchase their notes. On any date during the three months commencing on and immediately following March 16, 2024 and the three months commencing on and immediately following every third anniversary of such date, holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to repurchase any or all of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, upon certain change of control events involving the Company, holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock can require us, subject to certain exceptions, to repurchase any or all of their Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. It is possible that we would not have sufficient funds at the time that we are required to make any such purchase of notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or both). We cannot assure the holders of the senior unsecured notes and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any such notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be repurchased upon a change in control or scheduled redemption. Our failure to repurchase the senior unsecured notes of a series when required would result in an event of default with respect to such notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. If we are unable to repurchase all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be purchased, then we are required to pay dividends on the shares not repurchased at a rate equal to 8.0% per annum, accruing daily from such date until the full purchase price, plus all accrued dividends, are paid in full in respect of such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, a change in control (i) may constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit agreement that would permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings thereunder and/or terminate the commitments under the senior secured revolving credit facility, (ii) may constitute a termination event under our trade receivables facility that would permit the purchasers to declare the capital they have invested in our receivables to be due and owing and (iii) may require us to make a similar change in control offer to holders of our existing senior unsecured notes. 21 Table of Contents Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalization that would increase the level of our indebtedness, may not constitute a change in control under the indentures governing our unsecured notes or the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future capital costs and reduce our access to capital.Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing or capital from other financing arrangements. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have a number of significant assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2023 and the value of these assets can be adversely impacted by factors related to our business and operating performance, as well as factors outside of our control. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, totaled approximately $406 million and $461 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate. The Company has previously recorded valuation allowances related to certain deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits from those assets. The recorded valuation allowances cover deferred tax assets, including tax loss carryforwards, interest expense carryforwards and foreign tax credits, in tax jurisdictions where there is uncertainty as to the ultimate realization of those tax assets. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income of the proper source in the time period within which the temporary differences underlying our deferred tax assets become deductible, or before the expiration of our loss and credit carryforwards, additional valuation allowances could be required in the future. Failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure