Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. RISK FACTOR SUMMARY The following is a summary of certain risks and uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Risks Associated with our Strategy If we do not successfully execute our growth strategy, our operating results could be negatively impacted. If we do not successfully develop new solutions that achieve market acceptance and keep pace with technological developments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. If we fail to maintain a consistently high level of customer service or if we fail to manage our reputation, our brand, business and financial results may be harmed. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our cost reduction initiatives and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and our ability to integrate with third-party applications and software. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions or future acquisitions may not produce anticipated results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be held liable to the buyer of our Digital Banking business if we fail to perform under our agreements and the performance of such services may negatively affect our business and operations. We may not realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits related to the Hardware Business Transition on a timely basis or at all. Risks Associated with the Spin-Off of NCR Atleos If the Spin-Off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it could result in substantial tax liability for us and our stockholders. We may be held liable to NCR Atleos if we fail to perform under our agreements with NCR Atleos, and the performance of such services may negatively affect our business and operations. Potential indemnification obligations to NCR Atleos or a refusal of NCR Atleos to indemnify us pursuant to agreements executed in the Spin-Off could materially adversely affect us. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Data Privacy and Intellectual Property Our inability to protect our systems and data from cybersecurity threats or other technological risks could adversely affect our business operations or stock price and damage our brand and reputation. We are subject to evolving global laws and regulations relating to data privacy, data protection and information security, which may require us to incur substantial compliance costs or harm our business operations. Our intellectual property is valuable and our inability to protect it could reduce the value of our products, services and brand and harm our competitive position. Claims by others that we infringe upon, misappropriate or otherwise violate their intellectual property or other proprietary technology could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with our Business & Operations We face extensive competition in our markets and if we do not compete effectively, we may not be successful. Disruptions in our data center hosting and public cloud facilities could adversely affect our business. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. Our artificial intelligence capabilities may not operate as anticipated, which could adversely affect our reputation, revenues and profitability. 9 Table of Contents We rely on the availability of third-party licenses, and our inability to maintain those licenses could harm our business. Changes in U.S. or foreign trade policies and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain and update our information technology systems to meet the needs of our business, our business could be adversely impacted. If we do not retain key employees, or if we are unable to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. If third-party suppliers upon which we rely to manufacture our products and to supply key components necessary for our products and services are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to timely bring our products to market could be affected. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. Our payments-related business subjects us to additional regulatory requirements and other risks and uncertainties that could be costly and difficult to comply with or that could harm our business. Changes to our tax rates and additional income tax liabilities could impact profitability. Our international operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our risk management efforts may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure, which could expose us to losses and liability and otherwise harm our business. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. Our historical manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Risks Associated with our Finance & Accounting Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Despite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and other liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness. If we are unable to continue to access or renew financing sources and obtain capital, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be impaired. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful. Certain changes in control may result in an acceleration of our indebtedness or our obligations under other financing arrangements, or may require us to repurchase our senior unsecured notes or our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to us or our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future capital costs and reduce our access to capital. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. Our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate our material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Associated with our Governance Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock differing from those of our common stockholders. The issuance of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock reduces the relative voting power of holders of our common stock, and the conversion and sale of those shares would dilute the ownership of such holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We could be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR STRATEGY If we do not successfully execute our growth strategy, our operating results could be negatively impacted. We have taken significant steps, including the Spin-Off of our ATM-focused business and the sale of our Digital Banking business, to transform the Company to a platform-led software and services provider for the retail and restaurant industries and have shifted our strategic focus 10 Table of Contents towards accelerating the adoption of our platform. Successful execution of our growth strategy depends on a number of different factors including, among others, our ability to convert existing customers to our platform and attract new customers; to develop and deploy new or enhanced software solutions and technologies; to facilitate adoption by our customers of our payment solutions; to expand our services capabilities and geographic coverage; to transform our services performance, capabilities and coverage to improve efficiency; to incorporate remote diagnostic and other technologies that align with and support our solutions; and to cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customer base. In addition, we continue to pursue growth with small- and medium-sized and mid-market customers by increasing our use of indirect sales channels, and by developing, marketing and selling solutions aimed for such businesses. It is not yet certain whether these initiatives will yield the anticipated benefits, or whether our solutions will be compelling and attractive to small- and medium-sized businesses. If we are not successful in attracting customers to our platform, expanding our customer base at the rate that we anticipate, or if the costs to complete these initiatives is higher than anticipated, we may not meet our growth and gross margin projections, and operating results could be negatively impacted. If we do not successfully develop new solutions that achieve market acceptance and keep pace with technological developments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The retail and restaurant markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological advancement, increasingly sophisticated consumer needs and preferences, evolving security technology and industry standards, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop new or sufficiently differentiated solutions and introduce enhancements to our product offerings on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from our product development teams as well as suppliers of the components embedded or incorporated in our solutions. To support our growth, we expect to continue to spend capital and may need to increase our capital expenditures to enhance our products and platform capabilities. In addition, certain of our solutions, including our cloud solutions, may require us to build, lease, expand, and maintain, infrastructure (such as hosting centers) to support them. The development process can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. In addition, our success may be impacted by safety and security technology and industry standards. We may not be able to anticipate our customers needs and technological and industry trends accurately, or to complete development of new solutions efficiently. Further, once we have developed new solutions, if we cannot successfully market and sell those solutions, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, contract terms, market conditions or customer preferences may affect our ability to limit, sunset or end-of-life our older products in a timely or cost-effective fashion. We sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. If we fail to maintain a consistently high level of customer service or if we fail to manage our reputation, our brand, business and financial results may be harmed. We believe our focus on customer service and support is critical to attract and onboard new customers, retain our existing customers and grow our business. If we are unable to maintain a consistently high level of customer service, including through our use of third-party service providers or by leveraging evolving technology such as artificial intelligence, our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, in order to maintain adequate levels of service, we may need to hire additional support personnel, which could increase our costs. Our sales are highly dependent on our business reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer support, could adversely affect our reputation and brand, our ability to benefit from referrals by existing customers, our ability to cross-sell our products and services to existing and prospective customers, and our business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition, certain of our customer agreements include service level commitments or milestones. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, or if we suffer extended periods of unavailability for our solutions, we could face contract terminations or, as a result of such failures, pay damages or issue credits to our customers. Moreover, our failure to meet our commitments could result in customer dissatisfaction, reputational harm, or the loss of customers, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our cost reduction initiatives and our operating results could be adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we have undertaken and may undertake in the future cost reduction actions in order to reduce costs. We may not obtain the anticipated cost savings or operational improvements or realize the benefits that were anticipated in connection with these initiatives within the projected timing or at all. Further, such benefits may be realized later than expected, and the difficulties in implementing these measures may be greater than anticipated, which could cause us to incur additional costs or result in business disruptions. Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge, loss of key employees and/or other retention issues or inefficiencies during transitional periods. Cost reduction initiatives can require a significant amount of time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and 11 Table of Contents growing our business. Moreover, projections of any cost savings or other benefits associated with our initiatives are based on a number of assumptions and subject to economic, competitive, and other uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to execute these initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties and our ability to integrate with third-party applications and software. The success of our platform depends, in part, on our ability to integrate third-party applications, software, and other offerings into our platform and we anticipate that the growth of our business will continue to depend on these third-party relationships, including relationships with ordering service providers, payment processors, loyalty providers, and other partners. Integrating third-party content and technology requires significant time and resources, and third-party providers may choose to change the economics of or terminate their relationships with us, to compete directly against us, to enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, or to make material changes to their businesses, solutions, or services that could be detrimental to our business. Third-party developers may change the features of their applications and software or alter the terms governing the use of their offerings in a manner that is adverse to us. We may also be unable to maintain our relationships with certain third parties if we are unable to integrate their offerings into our platform. In addition, third parties may refuse to partner with us or limit or restrict our access to their offerings. We may not be able to adapt to the data transfer requirements of third-party offerings. If we fail to integrate new third-party offerings into our platform that our customers need to operate their businesses, or to provide the proper support or ease of third-party integrations our customers require, we may lose business or be unable to compete. If we lose access to solutions or services from a particular partner, or experience a significant reduction or disruption in the supply of services from a current partner, it could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions or future acquisitions may not produce anticipated results, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions to strengthen our business and grow our Company. For example, in October 2023 we completed the Spin-Off of NCR Atleos and in September 2024, we completed the sale of our Digital Banking segment. We may not be able to achieve the expected strategic, financial, operational, and other benefits from the Spin-Off or Digital Banking Sale, or such benefits may be delayed. We cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the Spin-Off or Digital Banking Sale will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, or that the costs or dis-synergies of the transactions will not exceed the anticipated amounts. Further, the impact of the divestitures (or other acquisitions or dispositions) on our financial performance may be larger than projected. Following the Spin-Off and Digital Banking Sale, we are a smaller company with a less diversified product portfolio and a narrower business focus. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions and the other risks impacting our operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may continue to expand our business through acquisitions of complementary products and technologies. Acquisition transactions present significant challenges and risks, especially in light of a highly competitive market and industry consolidation, which may affect our ability to complete such transactions. If we are unable to complete strategic acquisitions or if such opportunities do not arise, our growth opportunities could be adversely affected. If such transactions are completed, the anticipated growth and other strategic objectives may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected, and a variety of factors (such as business disruption, integration, talent loss, misallocation of resources and transaction costs, among others) may adversely affect any anticipated benefits from such transactions. The failure of acquisitions, divestitures and other strategic transactions to perform or deliver results as expected could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may be held liable to the Buyer of our former Digital Banking Business if we fail to perform under our agreements with the Buyer, and the performance of transition services to the Buyer may negatively affect our business and operations. In connection with the Digital Banking Sale, we and the Buyer entered into certain agreements, including a transition services agreement, providing for the performance of certain services by us for the benefit of the Buyer for a period of time after the Digital Banking Sale. If we do not satisfactorily perform our obligations under these agreements, we may be held liable for certain losses incurred by the Buyer. In addition, during the transition services period, our management and employees may be required to divert their attention away from our business in order to provide services to the Buyer, which could adversely impact our business. Further, as a result of these transition services, our counterparty will have access to certain of our information technology systems and shared information technology infrastructure during the transition services period. Any disruption, degradation, destruction or manipulation of our information technology systems as a result of such access, whether accidental or intentional, may cause 12 Table of Contents cybersecurity, data protection or privacy incidents or failures, which could in turn interrupt or adversely impact our operations or our reputation. We may not realize the anticipated cost savings or other benefits related to the transition of our Hardware Business to an outsourced design and manufacturing (ODM) model on a timely basis or at all. In August 2024, we announced our entry into a commercial agreement with Ennoconn Corp. (Ennoconn) to transition our point-of-sale and self-checkout hardware businesses to an outsourced design and manufacturing model (the Hardware Business Transition). We and Ennoconn are working to implement the Hardware Business Transition. We have experienced delays, and may experience additional unanticipated delays, in migrating certain aspects of our hardware business to Ennoconn. We expect the Hardware Business Transition to be completed in 2025; however, the Hardware Business Transition may not be implemented successfully or within the anticipated timeline. We anticipate that, once the Hardware Business Transition is implemented, we will record revenue from point-of-sale and self-checkout hardware sales on a net basis, excluding the costs paid to Ennoconn. Until the implementation of the Hardware Business Transition, the substantial majority of the revenue from our hardware business is attributable to point-of-sale and self-checkout hardware. Under our new business model following the Hardware Business Transition, a substantial majority of the revenue related to the sale of hardware will no longer be recognized by us and will instead be recognized by our counterparty. This will result in a substantial decrease to our hardware-related revenue and could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We also expect to reduce hardware-related costs in connection with the Hardware Business Transition. If we are unable to reduce costs in connection with the Hardware Business Transition or if the Hardware Business Transition has an adverse impact on our hardware sales or customer relationships, this could have an adverse impact on our future operating results and financial condition. In addition, as a result of the Hardware Business Transition, a third party will design, manufacture, warrant, supply, and ship self-checkout and point-of sale hardware directly to our customers. If our counterparty fails to deliver on their commitments or otherwise breaches their obligations to our customers, our reputation and our relationship with our customers may be harmed which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SPIN-OFF OF NCR ATLEOS If the Spin-Off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, it could result in substantial tax liability for us and our stockholders. We received an opinion of counsel to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the Spin-Off qualifies for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the Internal Revenue Code. However, the opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from us and NCR Atleos, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters, and the opinion would not be valid if such assumptions, representations and undertakings were incorrect. Furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) or the courts. If the Spin-Off is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we and our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Even if the Spin-Off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of NCR Atleos are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the Spin-Off. In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the Spin-Off, we entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with NCR Atleos, pursuant to which NCR Atleos agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause the Spin-Off or any related transactions to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. In addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. We may be held liable to NCR Atleos if we fail to perform under our agreements with NCR Atleos, and the performance of such services may negatively affect our business and operations. In connection with the Spin-Off, we and NCR Atleos entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements (including a transition services agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement, patent and technology cross-license agreement, trademark license and use agreement, master services agreement) that provide for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the Spin-Off. If we do not satisfactorily perform our obligations under these agreements, we may be held liable for any resulting losses suffered by NCR Atleos, subject to certain limits. In addition, during the transition services periods under these agreements, our management and employees may be required to divert their attention away from our business in order to provide services to NCR Atleos, which could adversely affect our business. Potential indemnification obligations to NCR Atleos or a refusal of NCR Atleos to indemnify us pursuant to agreements executed in the Spin-Off could materially adversely affect us. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements we entered into with NCR Atleos in connection with the Spin-Off, the Company and NCR Atleos agree to indemnify the other for certain liabilities. The indemnities from NCR Atleos for our benefit may not be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, and NCR Atleos may not be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. 13 Table of Contents Moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from NCR Atleos any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses ourselves. In addition, our indemnity obligations to NCR Atleos may be significant. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our inability to protect our systems and data from cybersecurity threats or other technological risks could adversely affect our business operations or stock price and damage our brand and reputation. In the course of our business, we obtain, process and store large amounts of sensitive business and personal information, including information related to our customers, their end-users and their transactions. We also have access to certain transaction and personal data of our customers and their consumers through or in the course of servicing our products or third-party products. Additionally, we collect, use and store personal data of our employees and the personnel of our business partners in the ordinary course of business. We face risks, including to our reputation as a trusted brand, in the handling, securing, and protection of this information, and these risks will increase as our business continues to expand to include new products and technologies. While we have programs and measures in place designed to protect and safeguard our data and third party data we collect, store or process, and while we have implemented access controls designed to limit the risk of unauthorized use or disclosure by employees and contractors, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data are complex and evolving as threat actors adopt new and emerging technologies (including artificial intelligence and machine learning). Cybersecurity threat actors are increasingly sophisticated and are increasingly targeting employees, contractors, service providers and third parties through evolving techniques, including through social engineering and/or misrepresentation (such as phishing attempts and similar techniques). An attack, disruption, intrusion, denial of service, theft or other breach, or an inadvertent act by an employee or contractor, could result in unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, our data or third-party data we collect, store or process, resulting in claims, costs and reputational harm that could negatively affect our operating results or stock price. Like most companies, we are regularly subject to attempts by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation-states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit system vulnerabilities or to penetrate or bypass our security measures, in order to gain unauthorized access to our networks and systems. Successful attempts by one of these malicious actors could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential data of us or our customers. Attempts of this nature typically involve technology-related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that attack networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. Our products and services may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee, contractor or supplier error or malfeasance. We have administrative, technical, organizational, and physical security measures in place to defend against intrusion and attack and to protect our information. Most cyberattacks are detected, prevented or mitigated by our various information technology and data protections, including but not limited to firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly-based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management system, identity management technology, security analytics, encryption and multi-factor authentication. However, we have experienced security incidents in the past, and we may face additional security incidents in the future. In April 2023, we determined that a single data center outage impacting certain of our customers was caused by a cyber ransomware incident. Upon such determination, we immediately started contacting customers, enacted our cybersecurity protocol and engaged outside experts to contain the incident and begin the recovery process. Following an extensive investigation which included Company experts, external forensic cybersecurity experts and federal law enforcement, among others, we concluded that the incident impacted operations for some customers only with respect to specific Aloha cloud-based services and Counterpoint. Functionality was fully restored to all impacted customers, and we built a new cloud environment to host the affected applications. We have incurred certain expenses related to the cyber ransomware incident and may incur additional costs relating to this incident in the future, including payment of damages or other costs to customers or others. At this time we do not believe additional costs incurred as a result of the incident will ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition; however, we remain subject to risks and uncertainties as a result of the incident. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage technology systems, change frequently, grow more complex over time, and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent such techniques. In addition, it is not uncommon for security breaches to remain undetected for extended periods of time. There can be no assurance that we or our partners and advisors will be able to prevent or remediate all future incidents or that the cost associated with responding to any such incident will not be significant. 14 Table of Contents If any security breach or significant denial-of-service attack or other cyberattack involving our systems or the systems of third parties that store or process our data occurs or is believed to have occurred, our reputation and brand could be damaged and we could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to address problems caused by any such actual or perceived event and to remediate our systems. In addition, we could be exposed to business losses, litigation, regulatory action or other liabilities and our ability to operate our business may be impaired. While we maintain cybersecurity insurance, there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover losses we incur in connection with any cybersecurity incident. We are subject to evolving global laws and regulations relating to data privacy, data protection and information security, which may require us to incur substantial compliance costs or harm our business operations. In addition to the risks described above relating to cybersecurity threats or other technology risks, our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security laws and regulations of many jurisdictions. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal data privacy laws, consumer protection laws, and other similar laws. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (collectively, CCPA) applies to personal information of consumers, business representatives, and employees who are California residents, and requires businesses to provide specific disclosures in privacy notices and honor requests of such individuals to exercise certain privacy rights. The CCPA provides for administrative fines of up to $7,500 per violation and allows private litigants affected by certain data breaches to recover significant statutory damages. Numerous other states, such as Virginia and Colorado, have also passed comprehensive privacy laws, and similar laws are being considered in several other states, as well as at the federal and local levels. Outside the U.S., an increasing number of laws, regulations and industry standards govern data privacy and security. The European Unions General Data Protection Regulation, (EU GDPR), the United Kingdoms GDPR, and the Brazilian General Data Protection Law impose strict requirements for processing the personal data of individuals. In addition, violations of these laws can result in significant fines, penalties, claims by regulators or other third-party lawsuits alleging significant damages, and damage to our brand and business. For example, under EU GDPR, the authorities may impose fines of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of an organizations global revenue or impose limits on an organizations ability to operate by limiting the ability to process personal data. Additional jurisdictions continue to enact and modify their data privacy laws, which increases the complexity of the data privacy landscape. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing practices or the features of our products or services. Complying with these requirements and changing our policies and practices may be onerous and costly, and we may not be able to respond quickly or effectively to regulatory, legislative, and other developments. These changes may in turn impair our ability to offer existing or planned features, products, and services, and also may increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any failure or perceived failure by us, or any third parties with which we do business, to comply with our posted privacy statements or notices, changing consumer expectations, evolving laws, rules and regulations, industry standards, or contractual obligations, may result in actions or other claims against us by governmental entities or private actors, or the incurrence of significant fines, penalties, or other liabilities. Any such actions, particularly to the extent we were found to have engaged in violations or otherwise liable for damages, could result in the expenditure of substantial resources and could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our intellectual property is valuable, and our inability to protect it could reduce the value of our products, services and brand and harm our competitive position. Our copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, patents, and other intellectual property are important assets for us and it is critical to our strategy that we protect and can leverage our intellectual property, including our intellectual property rights. We own approximately 875 patents in the United States and many other patents in foreign countries. We own the trademark for NCR Voyix and certain variants thereof, as well as certain other trademarks relating to our products and services. We rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws in the United States and internationally to protect our intellectual property and brand. We also rely on agreements with our employees, contractors and other third parties who have access to our confidential information (including trade secrets and know-how) to protect that intellectual property. Such agreements and laws may be insufficient or otherwise fail to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property (including technology), and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, technology, and other intellectual property. In addition, various factors outside our control pose a threat to our intellectual property, including to our technology. For example, we may fail to obtain or maintain effective intellectual property protection, or the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or enforceable. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are 15 Table of Contents substantially similar to ours to compete with our business or that unauthorized parties will not attempt to copy aspects of our technology or use, misappropriate or disclose information that we consider confidential or proprietary. For example, it is possible that third parties, including our competitors, may obtain patents relating to innovations that overlap or compete with our products or services. If third parties obtain patent protection with respect to such innovations or technologies, they may assert, and have in the past asserted, that our products or services infringe their patents and seek to charge us a licensing fee or otherwise preclude the use of our products or services or file suit against us. Additionally, unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property and other information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Investment in protecting our intellectual property, especially through patents, is expensive and time-consuming. We may not be able to obtain protection for our technology, and even if we are successful in obtaining effective protection, it is expensive to maintain these rights, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, and the time and cost required to defend our rights could be substantial. Moreover, our failure to develop and properly manage and protect new intellectual property could hurt our market position and business opportunities. Possible future changes to U.S. or foreign intellectual property laws and regulations may jeopardize the enforceability, validity or scope of our intellectual property rights and harm our ability to obtain protection. We may be unable to obtain trademark protection for our products and brands, and our existing trademark registrations and applications, and any trademarks that may be used in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. In addition, our trademarks may be contested or found to be unenforceable, weak or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. Additionally, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our products and services, and the laws of certain non-U.S. countries where we do business or may do business in the future may not recognize certain intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition, any changes in, or unexpected interpretations of, intellectual property laws may compromise our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights. Failure to obtain or maintain protection of our confidential information (including trade secrets) or other proprietary information could harm our competitive position and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to registered intellectual property rights, we rely on non-registered intellectual property rights, such as copyrights and trade secrets, including to protect our confidential information, know-how and technical information. In order to protect our confidential and proprietary information and technology, we rely in part on non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to our confidential information (including trade secrets and know-how), including our employees, contractors and other third parties, which place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property. We also enter into intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, contractors and consultants. We cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our confidential or proprietary information or otherwise developed intellectual property for us, including our technology and processes. Individuals not subject to intellectual property assignment agreements may make adverse ownership claims to our current and future intellectual property. Additionally, these agreements may be insufficient or breached, or this intellectual property, including trade secrets, may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. We may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Additionally, to the extent that our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in such work The loss of trade secret and other confidential information protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and services by copying our technology, including features and functionality. To counter infringement or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, we may deem it necessary to file infringement claims, which can be expensive, time consuming and distracting to management. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights in this manner may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised during this type of litigation. Claims by others that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their intellectual property rights, even those without merit, could result in significant costs and adversely affect our business and results of operations. A large number of patents and other intellectual property rights exist in our industry and technology companies frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We are subject to, and may be subject in the future, to claims by third parties that we have infringed, misappropriated, or otherwise violated their intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us may increase. This risk has been amplified by the increase in patent holding companies that seek to monetize patents they have purchased or otherwise obtained and whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. 16 Table of Contents Any claim of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights made by a third party, even those without merit and regardless of the outcome, could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim and could distract our management from our business. The outcome of any allegation is often uncertain and there can be no assurance that we will successfully defend third-party intellectual property claims. An adverse outcome of an intellectual property dispute may require us to pay substantial monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable, cause a delay to the development of our products and services, require us to stop selling all or a portion of our products and services, and could require us to redesign certain components of our platform, products or services using alternative non-infringing technology or practices, which could require significant effort and expense. Any of the foregoing events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, in certain of our agreements with customers, we agree to indemnify them with respect to claims by third parties that our products or services infringe, misappropriates or violates the intellectual property of such third party. From time to time, customers have requested, and may in the future request, us to indemnify them for such infringement, misappropriation or violation. The obligations, liability and risks we could face depend on the scope and limitations of the indemnification we have provided. Any legal claims from our customers could result in substantial liabilities, reputational harm, or the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products, which could have adverse effects on our relationships with such customers. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS We face extensive competition in our markets and if we do not compete effectively, we may not be successful. We face intense competition in the retail and restaurant markets in which we offer our products. Our competitors and potential competitors range from large and established entities to emerging start-ups. Our competitors also include other large companies in the information technology industry, many of which have more financial and technical resources than we do. Our competitors may introduce superior products and services, successfully use and deploy new technologies such as artificial intelligence that may reduce customer demand for our products or services, reduce prices, have greater technical, marketing and other resources, have greater name recognition, have larger installed bases of customers, have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, advertise aggressively or beat us to market with new products and services. Our business and operating performance also could be impacted by changes to our competitive landscape, such as industry consolidation, and the entry of new competitors and technologies into our existing product and geographic markets. In addition, our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third-party financing companies, and in the case of customer default, these financing companies may be forced to resell this equipment at discounted prices, competing with us and impacting our ability to sell incremental units. The impact of these product and pricing pressures could include lower customer satisfaction, decreased demand for our solutions, loss of market share and reduction of operating profits. Disruptions in our data center hosting and public cloud facilities could adversely affect our business. Our products and services are increasingly being offered and provided on a cloud or other hosted basis through data centers operated by us or third parties in the United States and other countries. In addition, certain applications and data that we use in our services offerings and our operations may be hosted or stored at such facilities. These facilities may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks or incidents (such as the ransomware incident we experienced in April 2023), logical security and physical security events, hardware or software failures, human error, natural disasters, telecommunications failures and similar events, or to armed hostilities or intentional acts of misconduct, or interference (including by disgruntled employees, former employees or contractors). The occurrence of these events or acts, or any other unanticipated problems, at these facilities could result in damage to, lockout of, or the unavailability of these cloud hosting facilities. Such damage or unavailability could, despite existing disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements, interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings for our customers which could severely impact the operations of our customers. Our business operations and those of our customers rely heavily on the continuous availability and proper functioning of our platform and network. Any significant disruption, system downtime, or network lockout could have significant consequences, impacting important operations for our customers. We have experienced such interruptions and unavailability which has affected the availability of our applications and data. Interruptions in the availability of our data center or cloud offerings o could cause us to fail to meet contracted up-time or service level thresholds, which could cause us to issue credits or pay damages or penalties to customer or cause customers to terminate or not renew their contracts. Interruptions could also expose us to other liability claims from customers and others, payment of damages or other amounts, negative publicity and the need to engage in costly remediation efforts, any of which could impact our business and reduce our revenue. Although we have implemented disaster recovery plans and other measures to mitigate these risks, we can provide no assurance that these measures would be sufficient to prevent or mitigate the impact of a prolonged disruption or that we would not experience material losses if such an event was to occur. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. Many of our products are sophisticated and complex, and may incorporate or rely upon third-party 17 Table of Contents hardware, software and data. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that defects or errors will not be found in our products. If our products contain undetected defects or errors, or otherwise fail to perform as intended or to meet our customers expectations, we could lose customers and/or incur contractual liabilities and additional development costs. If defects or errors delay or complicate product installations, we could experience delays in customer acceptance or an increase in our incremental costs. In addition, customers license and deploy our software in both standard and non-standard configurations and across a variety of different environments, computer platforms, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, any of which could increase the likelihood of technical difficulties. Our products may be integrated with other components or software, and, in the event that there are defects or errors, it may be difficult to determine the origin of such defects or errors. If any of these risks materialize, they could result in additional costs and expenses, exposure to liability claims, diversion of technical and other resources, and loss of customers or negative publicity, each of which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Our use of artificial intelligence in our products and operations, as well as our potential failure to effectively implement, use and market these technologies, may result in reputational harm or liability or could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are increasingly incorporating artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities in our product and solutions offerings, as well as in our own business operations. AI technology is complex and rapidly evolving, and may subject us to significant competitive, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks. The implementation of AI can be costly, and there is no guarantee that our use of AI will enhance our technologies, benefit our business operations, or produce products and services that are competitive. Our competitors may incorporate AI technology into their products, offerings, and solutions more quickly or more successfully than we do, which could impair our ability to compete effectively. Further, our products and solutions which incorporate AI technologies may not function as designed or have unintended consequences, any of which could subject us to new or enhanced competitive harm, legal liability, regulatory or public scrutiny or reputational harm. In addition, our use of AI is subject to various risks including the use of personal information, flaws in our models or datasets that may result in biased or inaccurate results, ethical considerations regarding AI, and our ability to safely deploy and implement governance and controls for AI systems. Additionally, laws and regulations related to automated decision making, AI and machine learning are still evolving and there is uncertainty as to new laws and regulations that will be adopted and the application of existing laws and regulations. For example, the European Union has adopted the EU Artificial Intelligence Act and in the United States, new AI-related laws and rulemakings are underway or being proposed at the federal, state, and local levels. The EU Artificial Intelligence Act and any other new regulations could require us to comply with various burdensome requirements depending on the nature and categorization of AI. This may result in expending resources and additional costs to comply with these requirements or changing our products or features, which could harm our business. The intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, surrounding AI technologies have not been fully addressed by regulations, laws or courts and the adoption of third-party AI technologies into our business operations, products and services may result in exposure to claims of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation, as well as potential liability to customers. Adverse consequences of these risks related to artificial intelligence could subject us to competitive harm, legal liability, heightened regulatory scrutiny and brand or reputational harm. We rely on the availability of third-party licenses, and our inability to maintain those licenses could harm our business. Many of our products and solutions include software or other intellectual property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to renew such third party licenses or to seek new licenses for existing or new products. The necessary licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, our products and services are dependent upon the use of certain open-source software and we intend to continue our use of open-source software in the future. This software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open-source licenses. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on reasonable terms or any third party disputes that may arise regarding these matters, could result in delays in product releases until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, if at all, and integrated into our products. In addition, such events may cause us to incur significant license fees which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If an author or other third party or one of our license counterparties were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of a license, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses, be subject to damages or equitable remedies, be required to purchase a costly license, or be required to devote additional development resources to change our software. Changes in U.S. or foreign trade policies and other factors beyond our control may adversely impact our business and operating results. Geopolitical tensions and trade disputes can disrupt supply chains and increase the costs of our products. This could cause our products to be more expensive for customers, which could reduce the demand for our products. In addition, a geopolitical conflict in a region where we operate could disrupt our ability to conduct business operations in that region. Countries also could 18 Table of Contents adopt restrictive trade measures, such as tariffs, laws and regulations concerning investments and limitations on foreign ownership of businesses, taxation, foreign exchange controls, capital controls, employment regulations, the repatriation of earnings, and import and export controls o, any of which could adversely affect our operations and supply chain and limit our ability to offer our products and services as intended. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, and in particular increased trade restrictions, tariffs or taxes on imports from countries where our products are manufactured or assembled or from where we import products or raw materials (either directly or through our suppliers) could have an impact on our competitive position, business operations and financial results. For example, the new U.S. presidential administration has proposed the implementation of a number of tariffs, including a 25% tariff on imports from Canada and Mexico, as well as tariffs on imports from BRICS nations (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa). Similar restrictive trade actions, including tariffs, export controls, sanctions, legislation favoring domestic investment and other actions impacting the import and export of goods, foreign investments and foreign operations in jurisdictions in which we operate could be adopted with little to no advanced notice, and we may not be able to effectively mitigate the adverse impacts from such measures. Political uncertainty surrounding trade or other international disputes also could have a negative impact on customer confidence and willingness to spend money, which could impair our future growth. Any of these events could increase the cost of our products, create disruptions to our supply chain and impair our ability to effectively operate and compete in the countries where we do business. Our business may be negatively affected by domestic and global economic conditions. Our business is sensitive to the strength of domestic and global economic conditions, particularly as they affect, either directly or indirectly, the retail and restaurant sectors of the economy. Economic conditions are influenced by a number of factors, including political conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates, commodity prices, and government actions to stimulate economic growth. The imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions, spending trends in the retail and restaurant industries, tax legislation, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, fluctuations in oil and commodity prices, among other things, have created a challenging and unpredictable environment in which to market our products and services across our different geographies and industries. The retail and restaurant industries depend on consumer discretionary spending and consumer confidence, which is influenced, in part, by general economic conditions. A material decline in consumer confidence could impact the ability or willingness of our customers to make expenditures, thereby affecting their decision to purchase our products or services or to pay us for our products and services. A material decline in consumer confidence could result in consumers choosing to dine out less frequently or reduce the amount they spend while dining out, which could negatively impact our Restaurant segment. Negative or unpredictable global economic conditions also may have an adverse effect on our customers ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third party financing companies or on the number of payment processing transactions which could negatively impact our operating results. In addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for hostilities in various parts of the world, public health crises and natural disasters can create or contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that adversely impacts our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. If we are unable to maintain and update our information technology systems to meet the needs of our business, our business could be adversely impacted. We rely on our information technology systems and certain third-party systems to effectively operate our business. We have continued to review and modernize certain of our information technology systems and processes in order to simplify and improve our operations. There is a risk, however, that these efforts could materially and adversely disrupt our operations, could occur over a period longer than planned, or could require greater than expected investments or utilization of internal and external resources. It may take longer than expected to realize the intended benefits from these efforts. Our failure to properly and efficiently maintain and update our information technology systems, or the failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate, could hinder our ability to operate or to attract and support customers, or could cause us to incur legal liability, contractual penalties or cause us to lose existing customers, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we do not retain key employees, or if we are unable to recruit, develop and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Our ability to successfully execute on our growth strategy and achieve our business objectives is dependent on our ability to retain our key business leaders and our highly skilled software development, technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive, and we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain these employees. We may never realize returns on these investments. Key employees may decide to leave the Company for other opportunities. Changes of key business leaders could be disruptive to our business or delay the execution of our strategy. In addition, as our business model evolves, we need to attract employees with different skill sets, experience and attributes. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, or we are unable to attract highly qualified new and replacement employees by offering competitive compensation, attractive work environments, and leadership opportunities, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. 19 Table of Contents If third party suppliers upon which we rely to manufacture our products, supply key components, and provide other technologies and services necessary for our offerings are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to bring our products to market could be affected. There are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in connection with our products. However, there are some services and components that are licensed or purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology, functionality or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. We also rely on key technology providers with respect to our payments offerings. If we were unable to secure the necessary services or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, product shipments and solution deliveries, or the provision of services, could be delayed or our customers operations could be affected, impacting our business and operating results. In 2024, we announced our entry into a commercial agreement with Ennoconn to transition our point-of-sale and self-checkout hardware businesses to an outsourced design and manufacturing model (the Hardware Business Transition). As a result of the Hardware Business Transition, we will utilize Ennoconn as our single-source partner to supply and manufacture substantially all of our hardware products. Once implemented, this arrangement involves a number of risks, including decreased control over the production process, which could lead to production delays or interruptions and inferior product quality control. If Ennoconn experiences any significant difficulties in its manufacturing processes, or becomes insolvent or unwilling to continue to manufacture products of acceptable quality and in a timely manner or otherwise does not comply with their agreement with us, we could experience significant interruptions in the supply of our products. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including, for example, those that relate to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, employee benefits, import/export compliance, intellectual property, data privacy and security, payments services (such as payment processing and settlement services), product liability, commercial disputes and regulatory compliance, among others. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable and we must make certain estimates and assumptions in our financial statements. While we believe that amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to such matters are currently adequate, there can be no assurances that our estimates will align with the actual amount of any losses or liabilities relating to these matters or that the funding required to ultimately satisfy the liabilities from such matters will not impact future operating results. Many of the diverse and complex regulations we are subject to, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, securities laws, taxes, accounting, environmental safety and the discharge of materials into the environment, product safety, import and export compliance, data privacy and security, antitrust and competition, anti-corruption, and labor and human resources, can be subject to rapid and substantial change and may continue to be subject to material changes in the future. Compliance with these regulations, could create a substantial burden on us and materially increase our costs or could otherwise impact on our future operating results. Additionally, our global footprint requires us to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. For example, our international operations are subject to United States and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act. Our international operations are also subject to economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). If we are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and to our brand and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our payments-related business subjects us to additional regulatory requirements and other risks and uncertainties that could be costly and difficult to comply with or that could harm our business. The majority of the payment networks over which transactions are conducted require sponsorship by a bank, and the financial condition and results of operations of any sponsor bank and/or the inability to find a replacement sponsor bank may cause disruptions to our operations. In addition, bank sponsorship is required to process transactions over certain payment networks and our payments solutions depend on our ability to secure these sponsor arrangements with financial institutions. Our ability to process certain card transactions is contingent upon our continued registration with the applicable card brands. Non-compliance with established rules and regulations of the card brands with which we are registered could expose us to fines, penalties or other liabilities and could result in the revocation of our registration, all of which could negatively impact results of our operations. In addition, card brands could enact new rules and regulations that could require a significant investment of resources to maintain our compliance. 20 Table of Contents Increases in interchange rates or other payment network fees, over which we have minimal or no control, could cause a decline in merchant acceptance of card and digital payments and/or in consumers use of card and digital payments, causing an adverse impact on our operations and cash flows. Merchant attrition due to these or other factors could adversely impact our financial results. Further, errors, omissions or disputes in the settlement of merchant funds could damage relationships with customers and expose us to liability. We are responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for certain merchant customers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. In addition, we may incur losses when our merchants fail to reimburse us for chargebacks resolved in favor of their customers. Fraud by our merchants or others could also have an adverse effect on our operations and cash flows. Changes to laws, regulations, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard or other industry standards affecting our business may require significant development and compliance investments or have an unfavorable effect on our ability to offer certain services or on our financial performance. Further, we are subject to certain consumer protection requirements such as oversight by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the customer-facing nature of our payments-related business subjects us to increased risks of disputes with consumers, including litigation and class action litigation, and significant costs to address such matters. Changes to our tax rates and additional income tax liabilities could impact profitability. We are a United States based multinational company subject to income taxes in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent on the distribution of our earnings across different jurisdictions, and our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected if the distribution of earnings is higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates. In addition, changes in United States or foreign tax laws and regulations or tax rulings could affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, in light of continuing global fiscal challenges, various levels of government and international organizations such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and EU are focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue and establish minimum levels of corporate income tax. These tax reform efforts, such as the OECD-led Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (BEPS), are designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Although some countries have passed tax laws based on findings from the BEPS project, the final nature, timing and extent of any such tax reforms or other legislative or regulatory actions is unpredictable, and it is difficult to assess their overall effect. Additionally, tax law changes that could significantly reduce or limit our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets could have a material impact on our tax rate and cash tax payments. Any of these potential changes could increase our effective tax rate, increase cash tax payments and adversely impact our financial results. We are also subject to audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the United States and internationally. While we believe that our tax positions are sustainable, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. Our international operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, the percentage of our revenue from outside of the United States was 40% and 35%, respectively. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: the impact of ongoing and future economic conditions on the stability of national and regional economies and industries within those economies; political conditions and local regulations that could adversely affect demand for our solutions, our ability to access funds and resources, or our ability to sell products in these markets; the impact of a downturn in the global economy, or in regional economies, on demand for our products; competitive labor markets and increasing wages in markets that we operate in; varied employee/employer relationships, existence of works councils and differing labor practices, and other challenges caused by distance, language, local expertise, and cultural differences, increasing the complexity of doing business in multiple jurisdictions; currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses; limited availability of local currencies to pay vendors, employees and third parties and to distribute funds outside of the country; changes to global or regional trade agreements that could limit our ability to sell products in these markets; 21 Table of Contents the imposition of import or export tariffs, taxes, trade policies or import and export controls that could increase the expense of, or limit demand for our products; changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally or that may impose burdensome reporting requirements on us or impose restrictions on our operations or offerings; government uncertainty or limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, including as a result of new, or changes to, laws and regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; implementing and managing systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets; changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; longer collection cycles and the financial viability and reliability of contracting partners and customers; managing a geographically dispersed workforce, work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues; disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; and the impact of natural disasters, catastrophic events, civil unrest, war and terrorist activity on supply chains, the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments. These risks and challenges could result in an increase in our cost of doing business internationally, including shortages and increased costs of products and components, shipping delays, longer payment cycles, increased taxes, and restrictions on the repatriation of funds to the United States. In addition, our business is exposed to health epidemics and pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), war, terrorism, civil insurrection or social unrest, and other significant business interruptions that could lead to disruption, instability and volatility in the global economy and negatively impact us, and our suppliers, partners, and customers. We have employees and third-party consultants outside of the U.S. that provide software development and support services. A sustained loss of the software development services provided by international employees and third-party consultants could negatively impact our software development efforts, adversely affect our competitive position, harm our reputation, impede our ability to achieve and maintain profitability, and negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our risk management efforts may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure, which could expose us to losses and liability and otherwise harm our business. We have transformed our business to become a leading global provider of digital commerce solutions with a focus on retail and restaurants. As a result of our strategic transformation, our risk management policies, procedures, techniques, and processes may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks to which we are exposed, to enable us to mitigate the risks we have identified, or to identify additional risks to which we may become subject in the future as we expand our product and services offerings. If any of our risk management policies and processes are ineffective, or if we are not successful in identifying and mitigating all risks to which we are or may be exposed, we may suffer losses or harm to our reputation, or be subject to litigation or regulatory actions, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely affected by a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, pandemics or other (actual or threatened) public health emergencies such as the COVID-19 outbreak, or other events beyond our control, and measures taken in response thereto. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or hurricane could have a material and adverse effect on our business and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Global climate change is resulting in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. We have operations all over the world and our sites in California, Texas, Florida, and India are particularly vulnerable to climate change effects. Acts of terrorism could also cause disruptions in our businesses or those of our customers, and could negatively impact consumer demand or the economy as a whole. We may not have sufficient continuity or recovery plans to mitigate the impact of any such event. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated catastrophic event at our headquarters or other key facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in access to, or functionality of, our platform and other offerings or could expose us to other liabilities, and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Our historical manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Certain of our facilities, properties and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own, or formerly owned or operated, to comply with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions. There can be no assurance that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not negatively impact our financial condition or future operating results. We have also been 22 Table of Contents identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, including the Kalamazoo River matter, as further described in Note 11, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; in Government Regulations within Item 1 of Part I of this Report; and in Environmental and Legal Contingencies within the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate such disclosures by reference and make them a part of this discussion of risk factors. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH OUR FINANCE & ACCOUNTING Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. At December 31, 2024, we had approximately $1.1 billion of total indebtedness outstanding with an additional $480 million of borrowings available under our senior secured revolving credit facility. Our current level of indebtedness could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt, including obligations to repurchase our senior unsecured notes under our indentures following the occurrence of certain changes in control; limit our ability to borrow money or otherwise enter into financing arrangements that would provide us with additional capital if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all; limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing or access to financing on preferential terms; make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic, business and other conditions; and make us more susceptible to adverse changes in our credit ratings and those of our debt securities, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our obligations under our debt and other financing agreements materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be negatively affected. We may, from time to time, seek to opportunistically refinance, amend, reprice and/or otherwise replace any of our debt, obtain additional debt financing or enter into other financing arrangements, reduce or extend our debt, lower our interest payments or the cost of capital available to us under certain types of financing arrangements, or otherwise seek to improve our financial position or the terms of our debt or other financing agreements. These actions may include open market debt repurchases, negotiated repurchases, or other repayments, redemptions or retirements of our debt or other financing arrangements. The amount of debt that may be borrowed or issued, refinanced, and/or repurchased, repaid, redeemed or otherwise retired, if any, will depend on market conditions, trading levels of our debt, our cash position, compliance with our debt covenants and other considerations. Any such actions could impact our financial condition or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations.Our credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or otherwise limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets; engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities; make certain investments (including acquisitions); engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions; repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock; repay certain indebtedness; engage in certain affiliate transactions; and enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments. The senior secured credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes also contain certain affirmative covenants, and the senior secured credit agreement requires us to comply with a leverage ratio that measures our debt relative to our Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit agreement). These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable debtholders, an event of default would result under the applicable agreements and under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the administrative agent or the required lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, terminate the commitments under the senior secured credit agreement, or require us to deposit cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit. Upon a bankruptcy or insolvency event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, all outstanding amounts thereunder become due and payable and all commitments thereunder automatically terminate. If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the administrative agent or the lenders could, among other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes certain of our domestic assets and the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Upon an event of default under the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, the related trustee or the holders of our senior unsecured notes could declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful.Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors, which may include factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Certain change in control transactions may result in an acceleration of our indebtedness or our obligations under other financing arrangements, or may require us to repurchase our senior unsecured notes or our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Upon the occurrence of a change in control under the applicable indenture governing our senior unsecured notes, holders of those notes may require us to repurchase their notes. In addition, upon certain change of control events involving the Company, holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock can require us, subject to certain exceptions, to repurchase any or all of their Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. On any date during the three months commencing on and immediately following March 16, 2027, 24 Table of Contents March 16, 2030 and March 16, 2033, holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to repurchase any or all of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. We may not have sufficient funds in the event that we are required to repurchase any of our senior unsecured notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or both). There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any our senior unsecured notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock upon a change in control or scheduled redemption. Our failure to repurchase a series of senior unsecured notes when required would result in an event of default with respect to such notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. If we are unable to repurchase all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be purchased, then we are required to pay dividends on the shares not repurchased at a rate equal to 8.0% per annum, accruing daily from such date until the full purchase price, plus all accrued dividends, are paid in full in respect of such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, a change in control (i) may constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit agreement that would permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings thereunder and/or terminate the commitments under the senior secured revolving credit facility and (ii) may require us to make a similar change in control offer to holders of our existing senior unsecured notes. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalization that would increase the level of our indebtedness, may not constitute a change in control under the indentures governing our unsecured notes or the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future capital costs and reduce our access to capital. Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances justify any such change. Any future lowering of our ratings would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing or capital from other financing arrangements. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have a number of significant assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2024 and the value of these assets can be adversely impacted by factors related to our business and operating performance, as well as factors outside of our control. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, totaled approximately $321 million and $406 million at December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate. We have previously recorded valuation allowances related to certain deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits from those assets. The recorded valuation allowances cover deferred tax assets, including tax loss carryforwards, interest expense carryforwards and foreign tax credits, in tax jurisdictions where there is uncertainty as to the ultimate realization of those tax assets. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income of the proper source in the time period within which the temporary differences underlying our deferred tax assets become deductible, or before the expiration of our loss and credit carryforwards, additional valuation allowances could be required in the future. Failure to maintain an effective system of disclosure