Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Business, including factors relating to: Strategy and Technology: transforming our business model, development and introduction of new solutions; competition in the technology industry, integration of acquisitions and management of alliance activities; and our multinational operations; Business Operations: domestic and global economic and credit conditions; risks and uncertainties from the payments-related business and industry; disruptions in our data center hosting and public cloud facilities; retention and attraction of key employees; defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays; failure of third-party suppliers; a major natural disaster or catastrophic event; including the impact of pandemics and geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges; environmental exposures from historical and ongoing manufacturing activities and climate change; Data Privacy & Security: impact of data protection, cybersecurity and data privacy including any related issues; Finance and Accounting: our level of indebtedness; the terms governing our indebtedness; incurrence of additional debt or similar liabilities or obligations; access or renewal of financing sources; our cash flow sufficiency to service our indebtedness; interest rate risks; the terms governing our trade receivables facility; the impact of certain changes in control relating to acceleration of our future indebtedness; our obligations under other future financing arrangements; or required repurchase of any notes we may issue; any lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our future debt securities by rating agencies; our pension liabilities and write down of the value of certain significant assets; Law and Compliance: allegations or claims by third parties that our products or services infringe on intellectual property rights of others, including claims against our customers and claims by our customers to defend and indemnify them with respect to such claims; protection of our intellectual property; changes to our tax rates and additional income tax liabilities; uncertainties regarding regulations; lawsuits and other related matters; changes to cryptocurrency regulations; Governance: actions or proposals from stockholders that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders; and Separation: the failure of Atleos to achieve some or all of the expected strategic benefits, synergies or opportunities expected from the spin-off; that Atleos may incur material costs and expenses as a result of the spin-off; that Atleos has limited history operating as an independent, publicly traded company, and Atleos historical and pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of its future results; Atleos obligation to indemnify NCR pursuant to the agreements entered into in connection with the spin-off (including with respect to material taxes) and the risk NCR may not fulfill any obligations to indemnify Atleos under such agreements; that under applicable tax law, Atleos may be liable for certain tax liabilities of NCR following the spin-off if NCR were to fail to pay such taxes; that agreements binding on Atleos restrict it from taking certain actions after the distribution that could adversely impact the intended U.S. federal income tax treatment of the distribution and related transactions; potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws; the fact that Atleos may receive worse commercial terms from third-parties for services it presently receives from NCR; that after the spin-off, certain of Atleos executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous positions at NCR; potential difficulties in maintaining relationships with key personnel; that Atleos will not be able to rely on the earnings, assets or cash flow of NCR and NCR will not provide funds to finance Atleos working capital or other cash requirements. i Table of Contents Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made. Atleos does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. ii Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General General Development of the Business NCR Atleos Corporation (Atleos, the Company, we, us, and our) is an industry-leading financial technology company providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base including financial institutions, retailers and consumers. Self-directed banking is a growing, secular trend that allows banking customers to complete transactions seamlessly between various channels. Our comprehensive solutions enable the acceleration of self-directed banking through automated teller machine (ATM) and interactive teller machine (ITM) technology, including software, services, hardware and our proprietary Allpoint network. While we provide all our solutions on a modular basis, we have also assembled these capabilities into a turnkey, end-to-end platform which we have branded ATM as a Service. On October 16, 2023, we completed our Separation from NCR Corporation (now known as NCR Voyix Corporation or Voyix and referred to as NCR prior to the Separation) and launched as an independent publicly-traded company. Additional information about the Separation can be found in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As ATM technology has evolved in recent years, the substantial majority of banking transactions can now be completed at the ATM, including cash deposits, withdrawals and other account services, as well as the origination of payments transactions such as bill payments and money transfer. In addition, the development of ITMs, that utilize remote bank employees to provide customer support and servicing via interactive video, enable customers to complete more complex transactions such as account opening, card issuance and replacement and loan applications. We believe that ATMs and ITMs are increasingly the delivery channel of choice where transactions cannot be completed digitally, and for this reason, are critical to a broader strategy to provide convenient access for consumers. The secular nature of the growth in self-directed banking is in large part responsive to how financial institutions interact with their customers and the ensuing implications to the traditional branch banking operational model. With retail banking customers increasingly receptive to engagement outside the traditional branch banking environment, financial institutions are investing in non-branch channels to foster enhanced engagement with their customers. As such, ATMs and ITMs represent an increasing share of transactions relative to the legacy branch infrastructure. These shifts in engagement have meaningful operating implications, particularly in the face of sustained margin pressure across the banking industry. We believe that self-service banking capabilities, and self-directed banking more broadly, represent an opportunity for financial institutions to rationalize legacy branch networks and instead invest in omni-channel engagement models, often in partnership with third party providers as part of a comprehensive and more cost-effective solution. Our solutions are designed to enable the acceleration of digital transformation through software, services, and hardware, creating meaningful operating efficiencies while offering differentiated user experiences to their end consumers. ATM and ITM channels allow financial institutions to transform the traditional branch banking model and offer a more robust, efficient, and convenient banking experience to their customers. Our solutions also offer distinct and powerful advantages to retailers and consumers. Through our ATMs and ITMs, retailers can create everyday banking destinations within their store footprints, driving new and repeat foot traffic and increased in-store spending while reducing the high labor costs associated with maintaining in-store financial services desks. Consumers benefit from increased convenience and connectivity through proximity to our network of approximately 83,000 self-service banking terminal locations, including the Allpoint network, which we believe is the largest retail surcharge-free independent network of ATMs in the U.S. We believe our comprehensive capabilities differentiate us in the marketplace for self-directed banking technology. Historically, banks and retailers would negotiate with a wide array of third-party technology and service providers, pairing disparate systems with internally developed technologies to assemble a disjointed self-directed banking offering. Our customers, in contrast, benefit from a comprehensive outsourced solution to a single vendor, improving the functionality and availability of a self-directed banking network and the predictability of the cost to operate. Given the demands of our customers, we are continuing our transition to software-led solutions. Today, our software platform, which runs in the cloud and includes microservices and application programming interfaces (APIs) that integrate with our 1 Table of Contents customers systems, and our ATM as a Service solutions, bring together all our capabilities and competencies to power the technology to run our customers self-directed banking networks, at the same time allowing us to earn a greater proportion of recurring revenues. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, to add software, services and other capabilities that complement or enhance our existing portfolio. In 2021, we completed the acquisition of Cardtronics plc (Cardtronics) to accelerate our ATM as a Service strategy, adding the Allpoint network to our suite of financial institution and retailer-focused payment technologies. We intend to continue pursuing opportunities to win new customers, expand our footprint and drive more transactions and foot traffic for our customers. By delivering mission-critical solutions to a durable customer base under long term contracts, we generate diversified and largely recurring revenues across contracted software, services and predictable transactional revenue streams. We believe our scale, operational expertise and efficient use of capital, as a percentage of revenues, allows us to deliver meaningful free cash flows, with opportunities for further expansion as we pursue our growth objectives, undertake strategic acquisitions and return capital to our shareholders. NCR Atleos Corporations common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol NATL. Operating Segments We manage our operations in the following segments: Self-Service Banking, Network, and Telecommunications & Technology (T&T). Self-Service Banking - Offers solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer solutions to manage and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that include back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Network - Provides a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, neobanks, and retailers to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our ATM network, including our proprietary Allpoint network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via ReadyCode (formerly Pay360). We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions, ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses, and our LibertyX business gives consumers the ability to buy and sell Bitcoin. T&T - Offers managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. Our customers rely on us as a strategic partner to help them reduce complexity, improve cost efficiency, and enable global geographical reach. We deliver expert professional, field, and remote services for modern network technologies including Software-Defined Wide Area Networking, Network Functions Virtualization, Wireless Local Area Networks, Optical Networking, and Edge Networks. Our Strategy Our business strategy and growth roadmap is defined by the following: Increase transaction levels at existing locations: We believe there are opportunities to increase the number of transactions that occur at our existing ATM locations. In addition to our current initiatives that tend to drive additional transaction volumes to our ATMs, such as bank-branding and network-branding, we have developed and are continuing to develop new initiatives to drive incremental transactions to our existing ATM locations. These initiatives may include incentives to cardholders, such as coupons and rewards, which incentivize customers to visit our ATMs. We also continue to invest in data analytics to better understand our ATM usage patterns to help us identify growth opportunities. Win more customers and expand our footprint: We have a long history and association with branch transformation through generations of products and thousands of customers, many of whom we have served for decades. We will continue to invest in the sales and customer success teams required to win and retain new customers and expand our ATM footprint with both retailers and banks. Our targeted customer acquisition strategy varies by customer type: Retail: We believe the retail channel is substantially underpenetrated and an actionable opportunity to grow our network. The value proposition through retail partnerships is multi-faceted, most importantly driving increased 2 Table of Contents foot traffic and sales velocity. We are investing in initiatives to more proactively help drive traffic and marketing for our retail partners, by for instance drawing cardholders to retail ATM locations in exchange for incentives and other retail offers. Bank: We will continue to invest in winning more banks and credit unions, primarily seeking to deploy our ATM as a Service model but also traditional company- and bank-owned models. Critically, we will continue to invest in our value proposition, ensuring that we allow our financial institution customers to offer a premier end-consumer experience at a material savings as compared to an internally developed ATM network. Invest in the FinTech channel: We intend to invest to expand relationships with fintechs and card issuers, such as reloadable stored-value debit card issuers, digital-only balances held by consumers, and alternative payment networks, which are seeking an extensive and convenient ATM network to complement their card offerings and electronic-based accounts. Many leading fintechs and challenger digital banks and providers of consumer financial services that lack a physical branch or ATM network of their own have partnered with us to provide their customers with convenient and surcharge-free access to ATM services. We have seen strong transaction growth with this customer type, as many of these businesses promote the convenience of our Allpoint network as a value point to their customers and an integral part of their solution. Shift traditional ATM business to recurring ATM as a Service model: We intend to continue investing to win new ATM as a Service customers as well as convert existing customers operating under a traditional model. We estimate that the contractual ATM as a Service model doubles recurring revenue as compared to a traditional ATM hardware and maintenance contract of comparable size, expanding our total addressable market. This is because historically certain of our customers would purchase some of the components that make up our ATM as a Service offering from third-parties. By combining all of these components into one ATM as a Service offering, the Company expects to expand its opportunities and expects to capture additional revenues. With an as a service model, we have an opportunity to win incremental market share by improving the utility of our customers self-directed banking solutions, driving retention. Grow the Allpoint network: As banks reduce physical footprints and digitize existing branches, and credit unions seek to expand with limited physical points of presence, our value proposition is only magnified, and our sales pipeline reflects this secular trend. We will continue to invest in bringing financial institutions and retailers to the Allpoint network to drive high margin incremental transaction volumes while allowing us to continue to re-invest in expanding and improving the network, reinforcing our competitive advantage. We believe the addition of deposit accepting functionality in the Allpoint network significantly expands the value proposition to our customers, allowing them to offer near branch functionality in secure convenient retail locations that their customers are in every day. Expand Total Addressable Market through product development: We see an opportunity to expand our addressable market by extending the breadth of our capabilities. For example, we are investing to introduce cashless card access and Bitcoin capabilities, extending ATM capabilities beyond cash access and balance inquiries. As another example, we are introducing cash deposit functionality specifically targeting retailers executing prepaid reloads, billpay and other cash-to-card consumer transactions which generate substantial daily cash balances. International Expansion: We intend to continue investing in international expansion. As of December 31, 2023, we have ATM networks in 11 countries and service ATMs in 60 countries and, in 2023, we generated 55% of our revenue outside of the United States. We will focus our expansion and investment on high cash jurisdictions, such as Greece and other European Union countries and beyond, where we believe we have an opportunity to build Allpoint-like networks in partnership with broader, country-level banking systems. Select M&A: Leveraging M&A execution and implementation experiences built at NCR, we intend to continue to complement and accelerate our organic growth strategies through acquisitions. As historical operating businesses within NCR Corporation, we have a successful record of identifying, executing, and integrating acquisitions, and we intend to continue to pursue acquisitions where they can accelerate our growth objectives and are strategically and financially accretive. Our business strategy and growth roadmap allow us to remain on the leading edge of secular trends driving self-directed banking, be efficient and have widespread availability of financial services and financial inclusion more broadly. 3 Table of Contents Products and Services The comprehensive set of products and capabilities we deliver can be flexibly constructed into a solution to meet the needs of the customer. The flexibility of our model is well suited both for customers who are interested in a completely outsourced, turnkey solution and for those customers who prefer to integrate our products into their existing infrastructure. Our solutions consist of software, hardware, managed services, branding and the Allpoint network: Software: We develop, install, support and run software, which we brand as our Digital First ATM software platform, to power a modern user experience for our proprietary and third-party hardware units. Select functionality includes device management, endpoint security, ATM marketing, cash management, transaction processing, personalization and application software. We have developed our software expressly to foster the digital first strategies of customers, including the requisite flexibilities to enable seamless add-ons, upgrades, maintenance and security. We can earn revenue on a recurring, subscription basis based on multi-year contracts. Our software strategy is the driving factor behind the evolution of our financial profile to a more recurring, lower capital model. Hardware: We develop, assemble, distribute and maintain a variety of ATM hardware units. We can assemble and sell an ATM or ITM with or without embedding our own hardware-agnostic software. We can also repair or maintain our own units or third-party units. Our hardware products include multi-function ATMs, ITMs, cash dispensers and cash recycling ATMs. The breadth of our hardware offerings ensures that we can address the increasingly diverse use cases that financial services kiosks serve today, offering a valuable on-ramp to broader software and managed services offerings. Managed Services: Our managed services, including ATM as a Service solutions, help banks run their end-to-end ATM channel, including transaction processing, managing cash and cash delivery, supplies, and telecommunications as well as routine and technical maintenance. As part of this suite of services, we offer a full line of software such as multi-vendor ATM management systems software application suite and related hardware including multi-function ATMS, ITMs, thin-client ATMs, cash dispensers, and cash recycling ATMs. Additionally, we offer back office, cash management, software management, and ATM deployment, among other services. Branding: With Company-owned ATMs we have an opportunity to augment revenue streams through branding arrangements, specifically by attaching customer logos to our units. These bank-branding arrangements allow a financial institution to expand geographically for less than the cost of building a branch location or owning an ATM. Under these arrangements, the financial institutions customers have fee-free access to use the bank-branded ATMs. In return, we typically receive branding fees from the financial institution while retaining our standard fee schedule for other cardholders using the bank-branded ATMs. Allpoint Network: We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to Allpoint, our retail-based ATM network, providing convenient and surcharge-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to end consumers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via ReadyCode. The ATMs and ITMs we deploy are operated under either Company-owned, customer-owned, or partner-owned models, depending on the in-house capabilities of the customer. The majority of the kiosks we serve are ATMs, however financial institutions and retailers are increasingly looking to video teller solutions to offer more self-service options to their customers and we are well positioned to serve these needs. In a Company-owned arrangement we place ATMs generally at well-known retailers such as Circle K, Costco, CVS, Kroger, Speedway, Target, and Walgreens. We also service and operate ATM networks on behalf of financial institutions in either a Company-owned or customer-owned model. We are typically responsible for all aspects of the ATMs operations. This can include transaction processing, managing cash and cash delivery, supplies, and telecommunications, as well as routine and technical maintenance. We earn revenue on a per transaction basis from the surcharge fees charged to cardholders for the convenience of using our ATMs and from interchange fees charged to cardholders financial institutions for processing the transactions conducted on our ATMs, or on a fixed monthly recurring fee. In a customer-owned or partner-owned model, the bank, retail merchant or independent distributor owns the ATM and is usually responsible for providing cash and performing simple maintenance tasks while we generally provide processing only services or various managed services solutions. Under a managed services arrangement, retailers, financial institutions, and ATM distributors rely on us to handle some or all of the operational aspects associated with operating and maintaining ATMs, typically in exchange for a monthly service fee, a fee per transaction, or a fee per service provided. Each managed service arrangement is a customized 4 Table of Contents ATM management solution that can include any combination of the following services: monitoring, maintenance, cash management, cash delivery, customer service, transaction processing, and other types of related services. Sales and Marketing We have a sales and marketing team of approximately 565 people around the globe focused on developing and managing our relationships with financial institutions and retail customers. We typically organize our sales and marketing teams by customer type across retail and financial customers. Our sales and marketing teams focus on understanding customer needs and market or competitor dynamics, product development planning and market sizing, project lifecycle management and development, and analysis to evaluate if our services are meeting customer needs. Our product lifecycle approach ensures we have high-quality products that are launched consistently in a customer-centric manner. In addition to targeting new business opportunities, our sales and marketing teams support our customer retention and growth initiatives by building and maintaining relationships with our existing customers. We maintain sales teams for each of the geographic markets in which we currently operate. We seek to identify growth opportunities and have also worked to simplify and streamline our sales and marketing processes to maintain our high quality and consistent experience for customers. Customers We have built a global network and serve banks and credit unions of varying sizes in over 140 countries. In our retail channel, we operate under long-term contracts with major national and regional merchants including convenience stores, gas stations, grocery stores, pharmacies, and other high-traffic locations. Our merchant-owned ATMs are typically deployed under arrangements with smaller independent merchants. Competition We believe that we are well-positioned to offer a comprehensive self-directed banking solution with our breadth of services, in-house expertise, and network of existing locations, that can leverage the economies of the physical services required to operate an ATM portfolio. However, there are several large financial services companies, equipment manufacturers, and service providers that currently offer some of the services we provide, with whom we compete directly in this area. Our competition consists of global ATM software, services and hardware companies including Fiserv, Euronet, Cord Financial, Brinks, Hyosung, and Diebold Nixdorf. Within our Allpoint network, historically, we have competed with financial institutions and other independent ATM deployers (commonly referred to as IADs) for additional ATM placements, new merchant accounts, branding, and acquisitions. Research and Development We remain focused on designing and developing solutions that anticipate our customers changing technological needs as well as consumer preferences. Our expenses for research and development were $77 million in 2023, $64 million in 2022, and $107 million in 2021. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future in order to provide a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services and to help maintain and enhance our competitive position. Information regarding the accounting and costs included in research and development activities is included in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report under Research and Development Costs, and is incorporated herein by reference. Intellectual Property, including Patents and Trademarks Intellectual property is of significant importance to us. We maintain a broad portfolio of intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret rights. We use intellectual property rights, nondisclosure agreements, assignment agreements and other measures to protect and establish our intellectual property rights and ownership of our intellectual property. In many cases, we own the intellectual property relevant to or used by our business, but in other cases, we obtain licenses, including in supply arrangements, to access and use other parties intellectual property, including that of Voyix. Although in the aggregate our intellectual property is materially important to Atleos and our business, we do not consider any single piece of technology, patent, copyright, trade secret or license to it to be of material importance to our business as a whole. We believe we have and will continue to take reasonable measures to protect our intellectual property and build our portfolio of intellectual property rights, but we cannot be assured that any of our intellectual property rights or other intellectual property may not be challenged, found unenforceable or invalid, or used, copied, otherwise infringed or misappropriated by others. From time to 5 Table of Contents time, we take actions to protect our business by asserting our intellectual property rights against third-party infringers or those who misappropriate our trade secrets. We seek patent protection for our innovations, creations and developments, and other technology (including software) along with improvements to them, our hardware, products, services and solutions, especially where such protection is likely to provide strategic value to us. Atleos owns approximately 500 patents in the United States and various other patents in foreign countries. The foreign patents are generally counterparts of our United States patents. Many of the patents owned by Atleos are licensed to others, and Atleos is licensed under certain patents owned by others. We also have numerous patent applications pending in the United States and in foreign countries. Our portfolio of patents and patent applications is of significant value and importance to us. As appropriate, we may look to monetize our patents and certain technology and other intellectual property rights to drive additional value from our intellectual property portfolio. We have registered, and most likely will continue to register, certain trademarks in the United States and foreign countries. We consider the NCR Atleos and NCR Atleos logo marks, as well as our certain other trademarks to have significant value to us. Our right to use NCR in our name and associated trademarks is licensed to us by Voyix. We expect to maintain our rights in and to the NCR Atleos and other trademark including NCR for years to come. Seasonality Our sales have been historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter of each year. Transaction volumes at ATMs in regions affected by strong winter weather patterns typically experience declines in volume during winter months as a result of decreases in the amount of consumer traffic through such locations. We usually see an increase in transactions in the warmer summer months, which are also aided by increased vacation and holiday travel. We expect these fluctuations in transaction volumes to continue in the future. In addition, other factors, such as a recessionary economic environment or real, or potential health emergencies such as the widespread outbreak of contagious diseases, could hinder travel, reduce the use of cash and may have a negative impact on transaction levels. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on variability in the volume, timing and mix of sales. However, with the transition of our revenue mix to comprise a higher mix of recurring software and services revenue, we expect that our sales will continue to become more linear over time. Manufacturing and Raw Materials In most cases, there are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize. However, there are some services and components that are purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology or other reasons. In the past, we have been able to obtain an adequate supply of raw materials and components for virtually all materials used in the production process. We currently believe we have adequate resources of raw materials and components and that our portfolio of vendors providing services and producing parts has the resources and facilities to overcome most unforeseen interruptions of supply. Atleos leverages a global network of internal and third-party partner facilities to manufacture its products. As of December 31, 2023, our primary internal manufacturing facility is in Chennai, India and we leverage additional partner facilities located in Budapest, Hungary, and Chihuahua, Mexico. Further information regarding the potential impact of these relationships on our business operations, and regarding sources and availability of raw materials, is also included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption Business Operations, and is incorporated herein by reference. Backlog Backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped as well as certain professional and transaction services to be provided. Although we believe that the orders included in the backlog are firm, we may allow some orders to be canceled by the customer without penalty. Even when penalties for cancellation are provided for in a customer contract, we may elect to permit cancellation of orders without penalty where management believes it is in our best interests to do so. Further, we have a significant portion of product revenue derived from term-based software license arrangements that include customer termination rights and services revenue that is recurring or transaction based business, for which backlog information has not historically been measured. Therefore, we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of revenue for any future period. However, backlog is included as a component of our remaining performance obligation to the extent we determine that the orders are non-cancelable. Refer to Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for additional information on remaining performance obligations. 6 Table of Contents Risk Management Oversight. Atleos is committed to a strong oversight mechanism of material risks. The Atleos Board has oversight of executive managements responsibilities to design, implement and maintain an effective enterprise risk management (ERM) framework for our overall operational, information security, strategic, reputational, technology, sustainability, and other risks, including matters relating to, environment, health and safety, business continuity planning (BCP), third-party risk management (TPRM), and the security of our personnel and physical assets. Atleos management will be responsible for developing and managing formal programs designed to identify, assess and respond to material and emerging risks and opportunities that may impact the achievement of Atleos strategic objectives. In particular, the Audit Committee will assist the Atleos Board in its oversight of risk management. Our Chief Risk Officer has primary oversight for the Companys ERM programs, including BCP and TPRM, details of which are reported to the Audit Committee. Atleos ERM programs support the Companys strategic objectives and corporate governance responsibilities. The ERM programs include the following primary objectives: Establish a standard risk framework and supporting policies and processes to identify, assess, respond to, and report on business risks and opportunities Establish clear roles and responsibilities in support of the Companys risk management activities Ensure appropriate independent oversight of business risks and opportunities and the impacts of related business decisions on the Companys risk profiles and tolerances Ensure appropriate communication and reporting of business risks and opportunities including related response strategies and controls to Atleos executive leadership and Board Provide relevant training to executives, managers and employees. In addition to the Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Compliance Officer has a direct channel to the Board. Our Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for oversight of compliance with local regulatory and business-specific requirements including those related to anti-money laundering (AML) and anti-bribery/anti-corruption (ABAC) laws globally. Additionally, our Chief Compliance Officer oversees investigations pertaining to fraud, conflicts of interest, violations of laws, and other similar matters, and reports on those activities to one or more Committees of the Board. All of these channels to the Board are designed to prevent risks and initiatives from being siloed into one channel and provide a clear and accurate picture of the Companys evolving risk landscape. Business Ethics and Integrity. Our Code of Conduct sets forth standards designed to uphold our values and foster integrity in our relationships with one another and our valued stakeholders. Our Code of Conduct is available at https://www.ncratleos.com/corporate-governance-docs/ncr-atleos_atleos-code-of-conduct.pdf. Everyone at Atleos is required to annually take our Code of Conduct training, available in 16 languages. Training is revised annually, taking into account the prior years compliance matters and the Companys compliance risks. Our Ethics and Compliance Program is responsible for managing the Companys adherence to the Code of Conduct. Data Protection, Privacy and Security. At Atleos, we are proud of our data protection, cybersecurity, and privacy programs. These initiatives receive oversight from the Audit Committee, as well as several members of our Executive Leadership Team including the Chief Operating Officer, General Counsel, Chief Security & Cash Operations Officer, and Chief Information & Technology Officer. Atleos Chief Security & Cash Operations Officer, Chief Information & Technology Officer and Chief Privacy Officer are responsible for management of these programs. Additional support is provided by our Chief Risk Officer and our Chief Compliance Officer. Atleos supports appropriate privacy protections for those with whom we interact. We foster a culture that values the privacy rights of individuals. Under the direction of Atleos Chief Privacy Officer, the program offers thought leadership, advice and guidance on privacy practices such as: complying with privacy laws and regulations; designing solutions with privacy in mind; implementing contracts governing intracompany activities; minimizing the collection of data; providing meaningful notice and choice; and safeguarding information. The program is supported by a privacy attorney, privacy program managers within the business, and data protection officers in various locations internationally. Many of these privacy professionals have industry recognized privacy certifications from the International Association of Privacy Professionals. Under the direction of Atleos Chief Security & Cash Operations Officer, the Global Information Security organization is responsible for implementing and maintaining an information security program with the goal to protect information technology resources and protect the confidentiality and integrity of data gathered on our people, partners, customers, and business assets. Also, we employ various information technology and protection methods designed to promote data security including firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly-based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management system, identity management technology, security analytics, multi-factor authentication and encryption. 7 Table of Contents To further our commitment to data privacy and cybersecurity: Atleos maintains the ISO 27001 certification for certain locations throughout the United States, Europe, and India Third-party audits for PCI-DSS, PA-DSS and SSAE-18 SOC2 are conducted for certain service offerings Atleos maintains a robust information security awareness and training program. Employees and contingent workers are required to complete training within 30 days of hire, as well as an annual refresher course. Additionally, Atleos performs regular testing to help ensure employees can identify email phishing attacks Atleos corporate insurance policies include certain information security risk policies that cover network security, privacy and cyber events Our Atleos Privacy Policy can be found on the Company website for further viewing at https://www.ncratleos.com/privacy Environmental Management. We are committed to managing our environmental footprint and protecting the global communities in which we operate. We strive to minimize the environmental impact of our products and operations while also delivering innovative technologies and solutions designed to support businesses and consumers in their efforts to operate responsibly. For example, Atleos uses remote sensing technology to solve customer equipment issues, which reduces the number of maintenance visits and reduces our carbon footprint. We complete the annual CDP climate change questionnaire and evaluate our environmental management progress annually to better understand our areas of opportunity to make a true impact. Product Innovation and Management. Delivering solutions and services that provide value to our customers in an environmentally responsible way is critical to Atleos ongoing success. As such, we strive to develop and recycle our products in a responsible way. One example of how we are already doing this is that certain of our applications, such as Intelligent Deposit and Self-Service Diagnostic Gateway (SSDG), enable our SelfServ ATM customers to better manage an increasing volume of transactions and related maintenance activities cutting down on costs, fuel and materials required to operate and maintain their ATMs throughout the lifecycle. Supplier Responsibility. We believe in creating positive change responsibly, and our supplier partners play a critical role in bringing that vision to life. We not only expect high quality products and services from our suppliers, we also expect them to conduct their businesses consistent with our Supplier Code of Conduct. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, available at https://www.ncratleos.com/suppliers/manuals-forms-and-templates, sets forth our expectation that our suppliers will meet ethical standards consistent with Atleos Code of Conduct and policies. As part of our overall ERM approach, our TPRM program is designed to enable proper risk identification and oversight of Atleos vendors and includes the following objectives: Perform risk-based segmentation and prioritization of all existing and new Atleos vendors Perform sanctions screenings on all vendors and anti-bribery, anti-corruption (ABAC) screenings on applicable vendors Perform extended due diligence on identified high risk vendors to include responsible sourcing, business continuity, information security, data privacy, and other reviews as applicable Perform Financial Risk Assessment on identified high risk vendors Additionally we take a risk-based approach to supply chain due diligence. We engage with the majority of our largest suppliers on a quarterly basis to identify potential risk exposure. As part of our supplier partner onboarding process, supplier partners are required to certify compliance with International Electrotechnical Commission 62474 standards. Atleos requires its supplier partners to maintain compliance with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive, Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) Regulation, and other applicable regulations. Human Capital Resources On December 31, 2023, Atleos had approximately 20,000 employees worldwide. Given the multinational nature of our business, we monitor our global employment footprint. As of December 31, 2023, our employees by geographic region included approximately: 25% in the Asia Pacific region; 39% in the Europe, Middle East and Africa region; 18% in the Americas, excluding the United States; and 18% in the United States. Atleos prioritizes investment and focus on its human capital resources. Our current roadmap for future programs to invest in our people includes: Upskilling talent in software and sales to enable the workforce of the future Developing an employee value proposition and brand strategy Focusing on internal talent mobility to develop and retain recent hires, including university hires Reimagining the onboarding experience to help set up all new hires for success Driving employee engagement at regional and site levels 8 Table of Contents Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I). At Atleos, we believe diversity is a fact, and inclusion is an act. A diverse workforce not only promotes a culture of inclusiveness but ensures that various perspectives are expressed, leading to greater creativity and productivity. A diverse workforce will also improve our customer relationships, as the culture of inclusiveness we foster helps our employees understand the nuances of the markets in which we operate. We believe in the power and value of diversity and strive to build a globally inclusive workplace where all people are treated fairly. We seek to include everyone, lead with empathy, and make our communities better. We have been hard at work reviewing our DE&I policies, practices and programs to identify opportunities for new inclusive initiatives. Building upon NCRs initiative and progress in DE&I, we expect to support the identification of opportunities for new inclusive initiatives, which may include: A Business Resource Group program to boost engagement and increase opportunities for professional development and networking and to acknowledge employees demonstrating diversity, equity, inclusion and allyship Launching a university diversity network to attract, hire, and grow diverse talent Structuring and deploying a council focused on global inclusion with the mission to inspire action that attracts, develops and retains top diverse talent and fosters an inclusive work environment Diversity by the numbers 56 19% 39% 29% countries in which approximately 20,000 of our employees reside of our global workforce self-identify as women of our U.S. workforce self-identify as ethnically and/or racially diverse of our U.S. management positions are held by people who self-identify as women * Based on data as of December 31, 2023, for NCR Atleos Corporation and its subsidiaries. Government Regulations We are subject to a variety of evolving government laws and regulations, including those related to environmental protection, in the various jurisdictions in which we operate or our products are sold, or where our offerings are used, including, for example, privacy and data protection laws, regulations and directives, and anti-corruption laws such as the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and United Kingdom Bribery Act. In addition, though not material to our business taken as a whole, certain parts of our operating segments are subject to industry-specific laws and regulations. For example, the ATM business is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act which governs the rights, obligations and liabilities of participants in Electronic Fund Transfer Systems (including ATMs); portions of our payments-related business are subject to or contractually obligated to comply with certain anti-money laundering laws and regulations such as the Bank Secrecy Act and their international counterparts; portions of certain businesses are customer-facing and may be subject to certain consumer protection requirements such as oversight by the CFPB and FTC and similar state or foreign agencies in the jurisdictions where they operate; and portions of certain businesses are subject to a number of foreign, federal and state licensing requirements including money transmission, money services and virtual currency, which may be subject to regulatory changes in the future in the jurisdictions where they operate. With respect to our LibertyX and LibertyPay businesses, the Company is subject to a number of specific government laws and regulations. As a Bitcoin reseller, the LibertyX business must obtain a money transmitter license in those states that have deemed the direct sale of Bitcoin to be money transmission as defined in their state money transmitter regulations. Additionally, we must obtain a virtual currency license in New York and Louisiana as those states have developed a specific license for companies that engage in virtual currency business activity. As a crossborder money remitter, LibertyPay must obtain a money transmitter license in each state where it originates transactions. Presently, we believe the LibertyX and LibertyPay businesses have all of the licenses necessary in the jurisdictions in which they operate, although it is always possible new licenses will be required given the evolving nature of regulation in this space. As money service businesses, the LibertyX and LibertyPay businesses must register with Financial Crimes Enforcement Network and comply with federal anti-money laundering regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, and Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) regulations. The businesses are required to maintain customer identification and transaction monitoring programs, including, but not limited to, collection and verification of know your customer (KYC) information, OFAC and politically exposed person (PEP) screening, customer due diligence / enhanced due diligence (CDD/EDD) processes, and currency transaction records (CTR) and suspicious activity report (SAR) filings. LibertyX and LibertyPay must also comply with the consumer protection regulations under 12 CFR Part 1005 (Regulation E). Our LibertyX and LibertyPay businesses are subject to evolving regulations as a provider of Bitcoin-related solutions. We monitor these developments closely, but they could result in changes to our businesses. In particular, on December 21, 2022, a new law was passed in Brazil (Law n. 14.478) to regulate virtual asset service providers (VASPs), including those operating in the foreign exchange market, which could encompass the LibertyPay business activities in Brazil. On June 13, 2023, Presidential Decree n. 11.563 in Brazil determined that the Central Bank of Brazil (BCB) will be the primary regulator of VASPs. The BCB has not yet 9 Table of Contents issued the relevant rules and regulations for VASPs under the new law. Once released, these rules and regulations could require changes to the business model and operations of the LibertyPay business, and we could be required to apply for new licenses in Brazil to continue the operations of the LibertyPay business there. Although we do not currently expect that compliance with government laws and regulations, including environmental regulations and those designated to address climate risk, will have a material effect upon the capital expenditures, cash flow, financial condition, earnings and competitive position of us or our segments, it is possible that such compliance could have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, cash flow, financial condition, earnings or competitive position, including, but, not limited to, as our Self-Service Banking, Network or T&T businesses grow or change as we continue to implement our business strategy. Further, while we do not currently expect to incur material capital expenditures related to compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurances that environmental matters will not lead to a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. A detailed discussion of the current estimated impacts of compliance issues relating to environmental regulations, particularly the Kalamazoo River matter, is reported in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. Further information regarding the potential impact of compliance with governmental laws and regulations is also included in Item 1A of this Report and is incorporated herein by reference. Information about our Executive Officers The Executive Officers of Atleos (as of March 26, 2024) are as follows: Name Age Position and Offices Held Timothy C. Oliver 55 President and Chief Executive Officer Paul J. Campbell 55 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Stuart Mackinnon 52 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer LaShawne Meriwether 50 Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Ricardo J. Nuez 59 Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance Officer and Secretary Andrew R. Duvall 46 Chief Accounting Officer Set forth below is a description of the background of each of the Executive Officers. Timothy (Tim) C. Oliver is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Atleos, a position he has held since October 16, 2023. Most recently, Tim served as Chief Financial Officer for NCR, from July 13, 2020 to October 16, 2023, and was responsible for all aspects of its financial stewardship, compliance and balance sheet management, working with the investor community and partnering with the business units to ensure customer success and profitability. Mr. Oliver served as President and Chief Financial Officer of Spring Window Fashions, LLC, a consumer goods company, and a member of the companys leadership team from 2019 to July of 2020. In this role he focused on, among other things, aligning the companys business portfolio and growth initiatives with its finance strategy. From 2011 to 2019, he served as Chief Financial Officer of the Goldstein Group Inc. (GGI), a privately held conglomerate, and President and Chief Financial Officer of its subsidiary, Alter Trading Corporation (Alter), a privately held metal recycler and broker company. Mr. Oliver also served as President during the last three months in his role at Alter. Before joining GGI and Alter, he was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MEMC Electronic Materials, Inc., a publicly held technology company (now SunEdison, Inc.), from 2009 to 2011, and Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Metavante Technologies, Inc., a publicly held bank technology processing company, from 2007 to 2009. He also previously served as Vice President and Treasurer of Rockwell Automation, Inc. (Rockwell Automation), an industrial automation and digital transformation company, from 2005 to 2007. Before joining Rockwell Automation, he was Vice President for Investor Relations and Financial Planning at Raytheon Company. Mr. Oliver became a director of Atleos on October 16, 2023. Paul J. Campbell is the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Atleos, a position he has held since October 16, 2023. Most recently, Mr. Campbell served as Vice President of Finance for NCR, from 2019 to October 16, 2023. In his role at NCR, Mr. Campbell was responsible for supporting its self-service banking, digital banking, payments, and product services in finance. He also participated in strategic review processes and external reviews as well as drove business improvements. He also supported key acquisitions and integration. Mr. Campbell joined NCR in 1989 and has provided over thirty years of financial leadership and executive business support to NCR, including many extensive assignments overseas. He initially performed internal process audits in the United Kingdom, then later served as a controller for NCRs businesses in China and then later in Australia. Additionally, he previously served as the Sales Finance CFO for NCRs Asia Pacific Sales for many years. Mr. Campbell is a qualified member of the Charter Institute of Management Accountants. 10 Table of Contents Stuart Mackinnon is the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Atleos, a position he has held since October 16, 2023. Most recently, Mr. Mackinnon served as the Executive Vice President of Network Global Technology of NCR, a role he held from August 2021 toOctober 16, 2023. As Executive Vice President of Network Global Technology of NCR, Mr. Mackinnon was responsible for the strategy and implementation of NCRs global ATM technology and operations, including ensuring around-the-clock operational status, performance monitoring, cash management, technical and call center support, and field operations. He was directly responsible for developing innovative technology solutions with a focus on efficiency and service. Before joining NCR in June 2021 in connection with the acquisition of Cardtronics, Mr. Mackinnon served as Executive Vice President of Technology and Chief Information Officer at Cardtronics, in which position he continued to serve through August 2021. He joined Cardtronics after the company acquired Columbus Data Services, the largest ATM processor in North America, where he held the position of President for five years. Mr. Mackinnon has also held senior technology roles at Threshold Financial Technologies and Choice Hotels in Canada. LaShawne Meriwether is the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Atleos, a position she has held since October 16, 2023. In her role as Chief Human Resources Officer for Atleos, she is responsible for all aspects of human resources including the acquisition and development of talent, compensation and benefits programs and employee and labor relations. Before joining Atleos, Ms. Meriwether served as the Chief Human Resources Officer for Jabil where she spent four years in various positions including leading human resources for a large business segment and leading global talent prior to be appointed to the Chief Human Resources Officer role. Before joining Jabil, she led Total Rewards for several companies including Exterran, Timberland, Tyco Electronics Products & Services and C&S Wholesale Grocers. She began her HR career with NCR Corporation in Dayton, Ohio in a compensation role where she was sent on an international assignment to lead C&B for the UK. Ms. Meriwether specializes in the tactics of future-proofing organizations through hands-on talent management strategies. Ricardo J. Nuez is the Executive Vice President, General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer of Atleos, a position he has held since October 16, 2023. Mr. Nunez was hired by NCR pre-separation on September 18, 2023. Prior to joining NCR, Mr. Nuez served as Chief Legal Officer, Chief Compliance Officer and Corporate Secretary of Mativ Holdings, Inc. (formerly SWM International, Inc.) from November 2016 to September 2023, where he led the legal team for the spin-off of Mativs Engineered Papers business, its acquisition of Scapaand SWMs merger and subsequent rebranding with Neenah Paper. He previously served as General Counsel, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance Officer of HD Supply, Inc., a spin-off from The Home Depot the subsequent Initial Public Offering of which he co-led. Andrew R. DuVall is the Chief Accounting Officer of Atleos, a position he has held since October 16, 2023. Prior to the separation of Atleos from NCR on October 16, 2023, he served as the Vice President, Assistant Controller, of NCR from June of 2021 through September of 2023. From 2019 to 2021 he was the Executive Director of Financial Planning and Analysis for the Banking Software Business. Mr. Duvall Joined NCR in 2012 and held various roles including the Corporate Revenue Controller and Americas Region Controller. Mr. Duvall began his career at PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and spent 12 years in various positions on software and technology clients including 3 years as a Senior Manager on PwCs largest client in Finland. He completed his undergraduate studies at Mercer University and graduated with his Master in Accountancy from USC Marshall School of Business. He is a registered Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in the State of Georgia. Available Information Atleos makes available through its website at http://investor.ncratleos.com, free of charge, the reports it files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports and schedules, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The SEC also maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains the reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file or furnish electronically with the SEC. Atleos will furnish, without charge to a security holder upon written request, the Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 2024 Proxy Statement), portions of which are incorporated herein by reference. Atleos also will furnish its Code of Conduct at no cost and any other exhibit at cost. Document requests are available by calling or writing to: NCR AtleosInvestor Relations 864 Spring Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Phone: 800-255-5627 E-Mail: investor.relations@ncratleos.com Website: http://investor.ncratleos.com Atleos website, www.ncratleos.com, contains a significant amount of information about Atleos, including financial and other information for investors. Atleos encourages investors to visit its website regularly, as information may be updated and new 11 Table of Contents information may be posted at any time. The contents of Atleos website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed filed under the Exchange Act. 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections, and could cause the market value of our stock to decline. You should consider these risk factors when evaluating us and our common stock and when reading the rest of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections entitled Business and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. RISK FACTOR SUMMARY The following is a summary of the risks and uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Risks Associated with our Strategy & Technology If we are unsuccessful in transforming our business model, our results could be negatively impacted. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing environment in which we do business, our business results may be impacted. If we do not compete effectively within the technology industry, we will not be successful. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not drive future growth. Our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets, expose us to business and legal risks. Risks Associated with our Business & Operations Our business may be negatively affected by domestic and global economic and credit conditions. We are subject to significant risks and uncertainties from the payments-related business and industry. We maintain a significant amount of vault cash, which is necessary to operate our business, involves risk of loss and is subject to cost fluctuations based on interest rate movements. If we do not retain key employees, or attract quality new employees, we may not meet our objectives. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could negatively impact our business. If third party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to timely bring products to market could be affected. A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business. Our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Climate change could negatively impact our business long-term. Data protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could adversely impact our business. Risks Associated with our Finance & Accounting We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the spin-off, and the degree to which we are leveraged following completion of the distribution may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Despite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and similar liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness. If we are unable to continue to access or renew financing sources and obtain capital, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be impaired. Our cash flows may be insufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful. The agreements governing certain of our indebtedness are expected to provide that our borrowings will bear interest at a variable rate which would subject us to interest rate risk. The terms governing our trade receivables facility, and obligations to remit collections on the sold receivables could restrict or otherwise limit our financial and business operations. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future capital costs and reduce our access to capital. Our pension liabilities could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We may be required to write down the value of certain assets, adversely affecting our operating results. 13 Table of Contents Risks Associated with Law & Compliance Failure to protect intellectual property, may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes to our tax rates and additional income tax liabilities could impact profitability. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. Changes to cryptocurrency regulations could impact profitability. Risks Associated with the Spin-Off Atleos may not achieve some or all the expected benefits of the spin-off. If, Atleos is unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or its internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability of Atleos financial statements may be questioned and Atleos stock price may suffer. Atleos has limited history operating as an independent, publicly traded company, and Atleos historical and pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of its future results. NCR may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as a part of the spin-off or Atleos may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when NCR is no longer obligated to provide services under the various agreements. Under applicable tax law, Atleos may be liable for certain tax liabilities of NCR following the spin-off if NCR were to fail to pay such taxes. In connection with the spin-off, NCR has and will indemnify Atleos for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure Atleos against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NCRs ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. In connection with our separation Atleos has and will assume, and indemnify NCR for, certain liabilities. If we are required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to NCR, we would need to meet those obligations and our financial results could be adversely impacted. If the distribution of shares of Atleos, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the IRS Code that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, you and NCR could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability and, in certain circumstances, Atleos could be required to indemnify NCR for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. To preserve the tax-free treatment to NCR and its stockholders of the distribution and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, Atleos is restricted from taking certain actions after the distribution that could adversely impact the intended U.S. federal income tax treatment of the distribution and such related transactions. The spin-off and related internal restructuring transactions may expose Atleos to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. Certain of Atleos executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous positions at NCR. Some contracts and other assets transferred or assigned from NCR or its affiliates to Atleos in connection with Atleos spin-off from NCR may require the consent of a third party. If such consent is not given, Atleos may not be entitled to the benefit of such contracts and other assets in the future, which could adversely impact Atleos financial condition and future results of operations. After the distribution, Atleos is not able to rely on the earnings, assets or cash flow of NCR and NCR will not provide funds to finance Atleos working capital or other cash requirements, which may impact the margins charged to Atleos on debt financings, the amount of indebtedness, types of financing structures and debt markets that may be available, and Atleos ability to make payments on and to refinance any debt. Risks Associated with Atleos Common Stock Atleos cannot be certain that an active trading market for its common stock will be sustained and Atleos stock price may fluctuate significantly. Any sales of substantial amounts of shares of Atleos common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur, may cause the market price of Atleos common stock to decline. Atleos cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of dividends on its common stock. Your percentage of ownership in Atleos may be diluted in the future. Certain provisions in Atleos charter and bylaws, and of Maryland law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of Atleos, which could decrease the trading price of the common stock. Atleos bylaws contains an exclusive forum provision that could limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is favorable for such disputes and may discourage lawsuits against Atleos and any of our directors, officers or other employees. We may be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. 14 Table of Contents STRATEGY AND TECHNOLOGY If we are unsuccessful in growing our business, our operating results could be adversely impacted. In recent years, we have shifted our business model to become a software- and services-led enterprise provider, focusing on increased software and services revenue, as well as recurring revenue, to enable Atleos to become an as-a-Service company. Activating our strategy to create ATM as a Service could adversely impact our revenue and margin as we shift toward increasing recurring revenue. We expect to continue to spend and may increase our capital expenditures to support our shift to ATM as a Service with the focus on our strategic growth platforms, which are the offerings with the highest growth potential to accelerate the shift. Our success depends on the return on investment generated from the capital expenditures and our ability to continue to execute these strategies, while improving the Companys cost structure. Successful execution of our strategy and the businesses associated with the strategic growth platforms depends on a number of different factors including, among others, developing, deploying and supporting the next generation of digital first software and cloud solutions for the industries we serve; market acceptance of our new and existing software and cloud solutions; successfully expanding the payment processing market; enabling our sales force to use a consultative selling model that better incorporates our comprehensive and new solutions; improving our service performance, capabilities and coverage to improve efficiency, incorporate remote diagnostic and other technologies and align with and support our new solutions; managing professional services and other costs associated with large solution roll-outs; integrating, and developing and supporting software gained through acquisitions. In addition, we continue to pursue initiatives to expand our customer base by increasing our use of indirect sales channels, and by developing, marketing and selling solutions aimed at the small- to medium-business market. It is not yet certain whether these initiatives will yield the anticipated benefits, or whether our solutions will be compelling and attractive to small- and medium-sized businesses. If we are not successful in growing software and services and expanding our customer base at the rate that we anticipate, implementing and managing these various initiatives and minimizing any resulting loss in productivity, or if the costs to complete these initiatives is higher than anticipated, we may not meet our growth and gross margin projections or expectations, and operating results could be adversely impacted. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing environment in which we do business, our business results may be impacted. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from our product development teams and suppliers of the components embedded or incorporated in our solutions. We expect to continue to spend and may increase our capital expenditures and allocate these expenditures primarily to our strategic growth platforms. In addition, certain of our solutions, including our cloud solutions, may require us to build, lease or expand, and maintain, infrastructure (such as hosting centers) to support them. The development process can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. In addition, our success may be impacted by safety and security technology and industry standards. We may not be able to anticipate our customers needs and technological and industry trends accurately, or to complete development of new solutions efficiently. In addition, contract terms, market conditions or customer preferences may affect our ability to limit, sunset or end-of-life our older products in a timely or cost-effective fashion. If any of these risks materialize, we may be unable to introduce new solutions into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results could be materially impacted. Likewise, we sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. Once we have developed new solutions, if we cannot successfully market and sell those solutions, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. If we do not compete effectively within the technology industry, we will not be successful. We operate in the intensely competitive technology industry. This industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, disruptive technological innovation, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, price and cost reductions, and increasingly greater commoditization of products making differentiation difficult. Our competitors include other large companies in the information technology industry, as well as, independent ATM companies and financial institutions, such as Fidelity National Information Services Inc., Fiserv, Inc., Visa Inc., Mastercard Inc., Infosys Ltd., Diebold Nixdorf, Inc., Hyosung TNS Inc., and ACI Worldwide, Inc., many of which have more financial and technical resources, or more widespread distribution and market penetration for their platforms and service offerings, than we do. Our competitors could prevent us from obtaining or maintaining desirable locations for our ATMs, cause us to reduce the revenue generated by transactions at our ATMs, or cause us to pay higher merchant fees, thereby reducing our profits. In addition to our current competitors, new and less traditional competitors may enter the market, vertically integrated competitors, such as expanded product and service offerings by cash-in-transit providers, may offer comprehensive bundled product and service offerings, or we may face additional competition associated with the creation, integration, and consolidation of competitors through transactions as well as the introduction of alternative payment mechanisms, such as Venmo, Zelle, Squares Cash App, Facebook Messenger Payments, Apple Pay, virtual currencies such as Bitcoin and other emerging payment technology. Increased competition could result in reduced usage of our ATMs, transaction fee reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. In addition, our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third-party financing companies, and in the case of customer default, these 15 Table of Contents financing companies may be forced to resell the equipment at discounted prices, competing with us and impacting our ability to sell incremental units. As a result, the failure to effectively adapt our organization, products, and services to the market, the entrance of new competitors into the market, or the innovation or growth of existing competitors could significantly reduce market share of our offerings, decrease demand for our solutions, significantly reduce our revenue, increase our operating costs, or otherwise adversely impact our business, operations, cash flows, operating profits and financial conditions. Our future competitive performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: execute our ATM as a service strategy to grow our software and services revenue, as well as our recurring revenue; improve margin expansion while successfully reacting to competitive product and pricing pressures; mitigate increases in labor costs, component parts, freight, services and interest rates with price increases; penetrate and meet the changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; retain our existing key customers and add new customer relationships; cross-sell additional products and service to our existing customer base; rapidly and continually design, develop and market, to otherwise maintain and introduce innovative solutions and related products and services for our customers that are competitive in the marketplace; react on a timely basis to shifts in market demands and technological innovations, including shifts toward the desire of banks to provide digital-first experience to their customers in transactions and payments. reduce costs, including the capital costs of financing ATM deployments and the cash costs of filling them with bailment cash, without creating operating inefficiencies or impairing product or service quality; maintain competitive operating margins; improve product and service delivery quality; and effectively market and sell all of our solutions. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions or effectively manage alliance activities, we may not drive future growth. As part of our overall solutions strategy, we have made, and intend to continue to make, investments in companies, solutions, services and technologies, either through acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances. These activities allow us to further our company strategy and provide us access to new technology or solutions that expand our offerings. Acquisitions and alliance activities inherently involve risks. The risks we may encounter include those associated with: disruption to our business and the continued successful execution of our company strategy, goals and responsibilities, including but not limited to disruption of the Companys growth, its ongoing shift to software and services, the work to increase recurring revenue and Adjusted free cash flow-unrestricted, and growth of our ATM as a Service model; increased capital and research and development expenses and resource allocation; assimilation and integration of different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures (such as data centers) and technologies or solutions acquired or licensed, while maintaining quality, and designing and implementing appropriate risk management measures; retention of key employees and talent associated with the acquired or combined business; the incurrence of significant transaction fees and costs; the potential for unknown liabilities within the acquired or combined business that we may not become aware of until after the completion of the acquisition; and the possibility of conflict with joint venture or alliance partners regarding strategic direction, prioritization of objectives and goals, governance matters or operations. 16 Table of Contents There is risk that the integration, new technology or solutions, including, but not limited to expanded payment processing and entry into ATM as a Service, may not perform as anticipated, may take longer than anticipated and may not meet estimated growth projections or expectations, or investment recipients may not successfully execute their business plans. Further, we may not achieve the projected efficiencies and synergies once we have integrated the business into our operations, which may lead to the impairment or write down of assets, and other additional costs not anticipated at the time of acquisition. In the event that these risks materialize, we may not be able to fully realize the benefit of our investments, and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets, expose us to business and legal risks. For the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021, the percentage of our revenue from outside of the United States was 55%, 55% and 59%, respectively, and we expect our percentage of revenue generated outside the United States to continue to be significant. In addition, we continue to seek to further penetrate existing international markets, and to identify opportunities to enter into or expand our presence in developing and emerging markets. While we believe that our geographic diversity may help to mitigate some risks associated with geographic concentrations of operations, our ability to sell our solutions and manufacture internationally, including in new and emerging markets, is subject to risks, which include, among others: the impact of ongoing and future economic and credit conditions on the stability of national and regional economies and industries within those economies; political conditions and local regulations that could adversely impact demand for our solutions, our ability to access funds and resources, or our ability to sell products in these markets; disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; the impact of natural disasters, catastrophic events, civil unrest, war and terrorist activity on supply chains, the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments and, otherwise, continue to conduct our business in certain countries; the impact of a downturn in the global economy, or in regional economies, on demand for our products; competitive labor markets and increasing wages in markets that we operate in; currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses; limited availability of local currencies to pay vendors, employees and third parties and to distribute funds outside of the country; changes to global or regional trade agreements that could limit our ability to sell products in these markets; the imposition of import or export tariffs, taxes, trade policies or import and export controls that could increase the expense of, or limit demand for our products; changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally; government uncertainty or limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, including as a result of new, or changes to, laws and regulations; intellectual property rights of third parties, and our intellectual property rights and scope of protection afforded by it in different countries; implementing and managing systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets; changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; longer collection cycles and the financial viability and reliability of contracting partners and customers; and managing a geographically dispersed workforce, work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues. In addition, as a result of our revenue generated outside of the United States, the amount of cash and cash equivalents that is held by our foreign subsidiaries continues to be significant. After the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, in general we will not be subject to additional United States taxes if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed 17 Table of Contents to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise. However, we may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. BUSINESS OPERATIONS Our business may be adversely impacted by domestic and global economic and credit conditions. Our business is sensitive to the strength of domestic and global economic and credit conditions, particularly as they affect, either directly or indirectly, the financial sector of the economy. Economic and credit conditions are influenced by a number of factors, including political conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates, commodity prices and government actions to stimulate economic growth. The imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial and payment industries, new tax legislation across multiple jurisdictions, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices, among other things, have created a challenging and unpredictable environment in which to market the products and services of our various businesses across our different geographies and industries. A negative or unpredictable economic climate could create uncertainty or financial pressures that impact the ability or willingness of our customers to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their decision to purchase or roll out our products or services or, especially with respect to smaller customers, to pay accounts receivable owed to Atleos. Additionally, if customers respond to a negative or unpredictable economic climate by consolidation, it could reduce our base of potential customers. Negative or unpredictable global economic conditions also may have an adverse effect on our customers ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third-party financing companies or on the number of payment processing transactions which could adversely impact our operating results. The bank failures, during the first and second quarters of 2023, in addition to other global macroeconomic conditions, have caused a degree of uncertainty in the investor community and among bank customers, and could significantly impact the national, regional and local banking industry and the global business environment in which Atleos operates. The Company does not believe that the circumstances of these bank failures are indicators of broader issues within the banking system. However, if there is a severe or prolonged economic downturn, it could result in a variety of risks to our business, including driving banking customers to tighten budgets and curtail spending, which would negatively impact our sales and business. We are subject to certain significant risks and uncertainties from the payments-related business and industry, including the loss of revenue from decreased usage of our ATMs by users for their financial transactions or changes in the fees charged in connection with such transactions. As a part of our overall strategy related to our payments-related business we may be subject to the following risks: The proliferation of payment options and increasingly frictionless methods of payment other than cash, including credit cards, debit cards, stored-value debit cards, contactless, and mobile payments options, could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of our ATMs. The continued growth in electronic payment methods, such as mobile phone payments, contactless payments and card only self-service order and payment terminals could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and ultimately, a decline in the usage of ATMs. Payment technologies, such as Venmo, Zelle, Squares Cash App, Facebook Messenger Payments, Apple Pay, virtual currencies such as Bitcoin or other new payment method preferences by consumers could reduce the general populations need or demand for cash and adversely impact our ATM transaction volumes in the future. Atleos derives a significant portion of its revenues from ATM and financial services transaction fees, which could be reduced by a decline in the usage of ATMs, the ability to charge cardholders fees to use ATMs and the level of transaction fees received, or a decline in the number of ATMs that are operated by us, whether as a result of changes in consumer spending preferences, global economic conditions, or otherwise. Additionally, should banks or other ATM operators decrease or eliminate the fees they charge to users of their ATMs or otherwise offer free access to their networks, such action would make transactions at our ATMs comparatively more expensive to consumers and could adversely impact transaction volumes and revenue. The majority of the electronic debit networks over which transactions are conducted require sponsorship by a bank, and the loss of any sponsors and/or the inability to find a replacement may cause disruptions to our operations. In each of the geographic markets, bank sponsorship is required in order to process transactions over certain networks. In all of the markets we serve, ATMs are connected to financial transaction switching networks operated by organizations such as Visa and MasterCard. The rules governing these switching networks require any company sending transactions through these networks to be a bank or a technical service processor that is approved and monitored by a bank. As a result, the operation of the ATM network in all of the markets we serve depends on the ability to secure these sponsor arrangements with financial institutions. Non-compliance with established Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) network rules and regulations could expose Atleos to fines, penalties or other liabilities and could adversely impact results of operations. Additionally, new EFT network rules and regulations could require significant amounts of capital to remain in compliance with such rules and regulations. Transactions are routed over 18 Table of Contents various EFT networks to obtain authorization for cash disbursements and to provide account balances. These networks primarily include Star, Pulse, NYCE, Cirrus (MasterCard), and Plus (Visa) in the United States, and LINK in the United Kingdom, among other networks. EFT networks set the interchange fees that they charge to the financial institutions, as well as the amounts paid to Atleos. Interchange fees may be lowered in some cases at the discretion of the various EFT networks through which transactions are routed, or through potential regulatory changes, thus reducing future revenues and operating profits. Future changes in interchange rates, some of which we have minimal or no control over, could have a material adverse impact on business operations, cash flows and financial conditions. Additionally, EFT networks, including MasterCard and Visa, establish rules and regulations that ATM providers must comply with in order for member cardholders to use those ATMs. Failure to comply with such rules and regulations could result in penalties and/or fines, which could adversely impact our financial results. The election by our merchant customers not to participate in the surcharge-free network offerings could impact the effectiveness of those offerings, which would adversely impact our financial results. Financial institutions that are members of the Allpoint network pay a fee in exchange for allowing their cardholders to use selected Atleos-owned, managed and/or participating ATMs on a surcharge-free basis. The success of the Allpoint network is dependent upon the participation by our merchant customers in that network. In the event a significant number of our merchants elect not to participate in the Allpoint network, the benefits and effectiveness of the network would be diminished, thus potentially causing some of the participating financial institutions to not renew their agreements, terminate early, and/or trigger financial penalties, thereby having a negative impact on our business. Errors or omissions in the settlement of merchant funds or in the vault cash reconciliations could damage relationships with customers and vault cash providers, respectively, and expose Atleos to liability. Atleos is responsible for maintaining accurate bank account information for certain merchant customers, financial institution customers and vault cash providers and accurate settlements of funds into these accounts based on the underlying transaction activity. We maintain a significant amount of vault cash, which is necessary to operate our business, involves risk of loss and is subject to cost fluctuations based on interest rate movements. There is a significant amount of vault cash within our ATMs, which is subject to potential loss due to theft, civil unrest or other events, including natural disasters. Any loss of vault cash from our ATMs is generally our responsibility. Third parties are also relied upon in the various regions to provide Atleos with the cash required to operate many of the ATMs. If these third parties were unable or unwilling to provide the necessary cash to operate the ATMs, there would be a need to identify alternative sources of cash to operate the ATMs or we would not be able to operate this business. The willingness of financial institutions to provide vault cash to us depends, in part, on the capital classification given to such cash by regulators, any change to which may increase the cost of the vault cash or disincentivize financial institutions from cash rental products. Our existing vault cash rental agreements expire at various times, however, each provider has the right to demand the return of all or any portion of its cash at any time upon the occurrence of certain events. If our vault cash providers were to demand return of their cash or terminate their arrangements with us and remove their cash from our ATMs, or if they fail to provide us with cash as and when we need it for our operations, our ability to operate our ATMs would be jeopardized, and we would need to locate alternative sources of vault cash or potentially suffer significant downtime of our ATMs or significantly increased costs as a result of more frequent replenishments. In the event this was to happen, the terms and conditions of the new or renewed agreements could potentially be less favorable to us, which would adversely impact our results of operations. Furthermore, restrictions on access to cash to fill our ATMs could severely restrict our ability to keep our ATMs operating and could subject us to performance penalties under our contracts with our customers. A significant reduction in access to the necessary cash to operate our ATMs could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, cash flows and financial conditions. Our vault cash rental expense is based primarily on floating interest rates. As a result, our vault cash rental costs are sensitive to change in interest rates. Although we currently hedge a portion of our vault cash interest exposure by using interest rate swaps, we may not be able to enter into similar arrangements for similar amounts in the future. Our currently high rental cash expense and any significant increases in interest rates could have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow by increasing our operating costs and expenses. In addition, the cash-in-transit business exposes Atleos to risks beyond those experienced from the ownership and operation of ATMs. The cash-in-transit operation in the United Kingdom delivers cash to and collects residual cash from ATMs in that market. The cash-in-transit business exposes Atleos to significant risks, including the potential for cash-in-transit losses, employee theft, as well as claims for personal injury, wrongful death, workers compensation, punitive damages, and general liability. While we maintain insurance coverage, there can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover potential liabilities related to our cash-in-transit business or that insurance coverage will remain available at costs that are acceptable to us. The availability of quality and reliable insurance coverage is an important factor in our ability to successfully operate this aspect of our operations. A loss claim for which insurance coverage is denied or that is in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents If we do not retain key employees, or attract quality new and replacement employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Our employees are vital to our success, including the successful transformation of the Company into a software- and services-led business. Therefore, our ability to retain our key business leaders and our highly skilled software development, technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel, including key personnel of acquired businesses, is critical. Maintaining an inclusive culture and work environment is an important factor in attracting employees and retention. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive, and we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees. We may never realize returns on these investments. Key employees may decide to leave Atleos for other opportunities or may be unavailable for health or other reasons. Changes of key business leaders could be disruptive to our business or delay the execution of our strategy, and as a result could cause fluctuation in our stock price. In addition, as our business model evolves, we may need to attract employees with different skill sets, experience and attributes to support that evolution. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, or we are unable to attract highly qualified new and replacement employees by offering competitive compensation, secure work environments, and leadership opportunities now and in the future, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and adversely impact our business. Many of our products are sophisticated and complex and may incorporate third-party hardware and software. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that defects or errors will not be found in our products. If our products contain undetected defects or errors, or otherwise fail to meet our customers expectations, we could face the loss of customers, liability exposure and additional development costs. If defects or errors delay product installation or make it more difficult, we could experience delays in customer acceptance, or if our products require significant amounts of customer support, it could result in incremental costs to us. In addition, our customers who license and deploy our software may do so in both standard and non-standard configurations in different environments with different computer platforms, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may increase the likelihood of technical difficulties. Our products may be integrated with other components or software, and, in the event that there are defects or errors, it may be difficult to determine the origin of such defects or errors. Additionally, damage to, or failure or unavailability of, any significant aspect of our cloud hosting facilities could interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings, which could cause disruption for our customers, and, in turn, their customers, and expose us to liability. If any of these risks materialize, they could result in additional costs and expenses, exposure to liability claims, diversion of technical and other resources to engage in remediation efforts, loss of customers or negative publicity, each of which could adversely impact our business operations, cash flows and financial conditions. If third-party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to timely bring our products to market could be affected. There are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in or in connection with our products. However, there are some services and components that are licensed or purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology, functionality or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the manufacturing process of ATMs themselves are supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses that provide us with critical products for our solutions. If we were unable to secure the necessary services or maintain current demand, including contract manufacturing, parts, software, components or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, our new and existing product shipments and solution deliveries, or the provision of contracted services, could be delayed, adversely impacting our business and operating results. We have, from time to time, formed alliances with third parties that have complementary products, software, services and skills. These alliances represent many different types of relationships, such as outsourcing arrangements to manufacture hardware and subcontract agreements with third parties to perform services and provide products and software to our customers in connection with our solutions. For example, we rely on third parties for cash replenishment services for our ATM products. These alliances introduce risks that we cannot control, such as nonperformance by third parties and difficulties with or delays in integrating elements provided by third parties into our solutions. Lack of information technology infrastructure, shortages in business capitalization, and manual processes and data integrity issues, particularly with smaller suppliers can also create product time delays, inventory and invoicing problems, and staging delays, as well as other operating issues. The failure of third parties to provide high-quality products or services that conform to required specifications or contractual arrangements could impair the delivery of our solutions on a timely basis, create exposure for non-compliance with our contractual commitments to our customers and impact our business and operating results. Also, some of these third parties have access to confidential Atleos and customer data, personal data, and sensitive data, the integrity and security of which are of significant importance to the Company. 20 Table of Contents A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to capital markets and borrowing costs may be adversely impacted by technical or labor difficulties, labor shortages, transportation-related shortages, supply chain constraints, a major natural disaster or catastrophic event, including civil unrest, geopolitical instability, war, terrorist attack, pandemics or other (actual or threatened) public health emergencies, and the conflicts in Ukraine and Middle East and the related global response, or other events beyond our control, and measures taken in response thereto. Our Company and many of our suppliers have faced challenges with workforce safety and availability, labor and wage inflation, a changing workforce, and component availability and supply cost escalations, including materials, labor and freight. Our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Our facilities and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, to comply, or to determine compliance, with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions. Given the uncertainties inherent in such activities, there can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not impact future operating results. Voyix has also been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, including the Kalamazoo River matter, as discussed further in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, of Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement, a portion of the liabilities for these and other environmental matters will be shared between Voyix and Atleos. A potential increase in the liabilities of Voyix with respect to such matters, or any separate finding of liability of Atleos with respect to environmental protection laws, could adversely impact our cash flows and results of operations, and such impacts may be material. Climate change could adversely impact our business long-term. Global climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on Atleos business continuity and our ability to keep our employees safe and provide for our customers. Atleos considers potential risks related to weather as part of its operations strategy and has business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place. However, they may not adequately protect us from serious disasters and adverse impacts. In addition, climate change events could have an impact on critical infrastructure in the United States and internationally, which has the potential to disrupt our business, our third-party suppliers, or the business of our customers and partners. They may also cause us to experience higher losses, attrition and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. We have operations all over the world and our sites in California, Texas, Florida, and India are particularly vulnerable to climate change effects. The west coast of the United States and Texas have recently experienced historic wildfires; a winter storm in Texas led to massive power outages; and multiple hurricanes formed over the gulf coast as well as a typhoon in the Philippinesall of which caused significant destruction to the affected regions. We anticipate that similar weather events will continue to bring significant annual destruction in vulnerable areas. In India, extreme temperatures and increased cyclones frequency could interrupt our business continuity arrangements. The long-term effects of climate change could have significant repercussions for the global economy and cause significant financial and physical damages to Atleos. Data protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could adversely impact our business. Our products and services, including our cloud and hosted solutions as well as our payments and networking solutions, facilitate financial and other transactions for the customers in the industries we serve. As a result, we collect, use, transmit and store certain of the transaction, Bitcoin, cardholder information, private keys, and personal data of our customers and end-users. We also have access to transaction and personal data of our customers and their customers through or in the course of servicing our products or third-party products. Additionally, we collect, use and store personal data of our employees and the personnel of our business partners, such as resellers, suppliers and contractors, in the ordinary course of business. While we have programs and measures in place designed to protect and safeguard this data, and while we have implemented access controls designed to limit the risk of unauthorized use or disclosure by employees and contractors, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to this data are complex and changing, as are the underlying objectives of the attacker, like targeted business disruption, financial impact, intellectual property theft and unauthorized use, political motives, or sophisticated nation-state sponsored and organized cyber-criminal activity, and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. An attack, disruption, intrusion, denial of service, theft or other breach, or an inadvertent act by an employee or contractor, could result in unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, this data, resulting in claims, costs and reputational harm that could adversely impact our operating results. We may also detect, or may receive notice from third parties (including governmental agencies) regarding potential vulnerabilities in our information technology systems, our products, or third-party products used in conjunction with our products or our business. In the course of our business activities, Atleos contracts with numerous suppliers, vendors and resellers who may experience a cybersecurity, data protection or privacy issue that could adversely impact our operating results. Even if these potential vulnerabilities do not result in a data breach, 21 Table of Contents their existence can adversely impact marketplace confidence and reputation. To the extent such vulnerabilities require remediation, such remedial measures could require significant resources and may not be implemented before such vulnerabilities are exploited. As the landscape evolves, we may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect information and infrastructure. Like most companies, Atleos is regularly the subject of attempted cyberattacks, which may involve personal data. Most such attacks are detected and prevented by the Companys various information technology and data protections, including but not limited to firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management system, identity management technology, security analytics, multi-factor authentication and encryption. There can be no assurance that our protections will always be successful and any failure could result in loss, disclosure, theft, destruction or misappropriation of, or access to, our confidential information and cause disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, legal exposure and financial losses. The Company has established relationships with cybersecurity firms and internal cybersecurity experts, which it engages in connection with certain suspected incidents. The costs arising from those engagements, which depending on the incident may include both investigatory and remedial efforts, have not to date been material to the Company. The Company also regularly undergoes evaluation of its protections against incidents, including both self-assessments and expert third-party assessments, and it regularly enhances those protections, both in response to specific threats and as part of the Companys efforts to stay current with advances in cybersecurity defense. When the Company experiences a confirmed cybersecurity incident it generally performs root cause analyses and in appropriate instances will implement additional controls based on those analyses. There can be no assurance that the Company or its cybersecurity consultants will be able to prevent or remediate all future incidents or that the cost associated with responding to any such incident will not be significant. The personal information and other data that we process and store also are subject to data security and data privacy obligations and laws of many jurisdictions, which are growing in complexity and sophistication as data becomes more enriched and technology and the global data protection landscape evolves. These laws may provide a private right of action for individuals alleging a breach of privacy rights, including for example the Illinois Biometric Information Privacy Act (BIPA). These laws may also conflict with one another, and many of them are subject to frequent modification and differing interpretations. The laws impose a significant compliance burden and include, for example, the European Unions (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act and the Brazilian General Data Protection Law. Complying with these evolving and varying standards could require significant expense and effort, and could require us to change our business practices or the functionality of our products and services in a manner adverse to our customers and our business. In addition, violations of these laws can result in significant fines, penalties, claims by regulators or other third-party lawsuits alleging significant damages, and damage to our brand and business. The GDPR, for example, includes fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer for failure to comply, and grants corrective powers to supervisory authorities including the ability to impose a limit on processing of personal data. The laws also cover the transfer of personal, financial and business information, including transfers of employee information between us and our subsidiaries, across international borders. As another example, the Illinois BIPA provides aggrieved plaintiffs the ability to recover $1,000 for each unauthorized scan of biometric data, and $5,000 for each scan found to be in willful disregard of the statute. FINANCE & ACCOUNTING We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the spin-off, and the degree to which we are leveraged following completion of the distribution may materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Atleos completed the financing transactions as part of the spin-off, as a result of such transactions, Atleos has approximately $3,099 million of indebtedness outstanding with an additional $337 million of borrowings available under a senior secured revolving credit facility. Atleos may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This significant amount of debt could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding debt, including any obligations to repurchase such debt under any indentures following the occurrence of certain changes in control; limit our ability to borrow money or otherwise enter into financing arrangements that would provide us with additional capital if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate purposes, on satisfactory or favorable terms or at all; limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing or access to financing on preferential terms; 22 Table of Contents make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in the credit and financial markets, general economic, business and other conditions; and make us more susceptible to adverse changes in our credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our obligations under our debt and other financing agreements materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be adversely impacted. In addition, the documents governing Atleos indebtedness may include financial or other covenants that could restrict or limit its financial and business operations. Such covenants may restrict or otherwise limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets; engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities; make certain investments or material acquisitions; engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions; repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock; repay certain indebtedness; engage in certain affiliate transactions; and enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments. In addition, Atleos actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected, requiring it to incur additional debt or raise additional funds. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to Atleos on terms acceptable or favorable to Atleos, if at all, and will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond Atleos control, such as the state of the credit and financial markets and other economic, financial and geopolitical factors. Atleos ability to make payments on and to refinance any indebtedness, if applicable, will depend on its ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. Atleos ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond Atleos control. The capital markets have experienced a period of increased volatility, which could impact any refinancing efforts or the terms thereof. If Atleos is not able to repay or refinance its debt as it becomes due, Atleos may be forced to sell assets or take other actions. In addition, Atleos ability to withstand competitive pressures and react to changes in Atleos industry could be impaired by its debt service obligations. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default under any agreements governing Atleos indebtedness, the holders of such debt may, in some cases, elect to accelerate amounts due thereunder, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of Atleos other debt. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Our credit agreement governing the senior secured facilities and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or otherwise limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets; engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities; make certain investments or material acquisitions; engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions; repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock; 23 Table of Contents repay certain indebtedness; engage in certain affiliate transactions; and enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments. The senior secured credit agreement and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes also contain certain affirmative covenants, and the senior secured credit agreement requires us to comply with a leverage ratio that measures our debt relative to our Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit agreement). These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns. If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable debt holders, an event of default would result under the applicable agreements and under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the administrative agent or the required lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, refuse to lend additional amounts to us, or require us to deposit cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit. If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the administrative agent or the lenders could, among other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes certain of our domestic assets and the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Upon an event of default under the indentures for our senior unsecured notes, the related trustee or the holders of our senior unsecured notes could declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. Despite the indebtedness we incurred in connection with the spin-off, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and similar liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness. Although the agreements governing our debt are expected to include restrictions on our ability to incur additional debt, those agreements are not expected to prohibit us from incurring additional debt or pursuing other financing arrangements. As a result, the amount of additional debt and other obligations that we could incur could be substantial. In addition, certain types of liabilities are not expected to be considered Indebtedness under agreements governing our debt. Accordingly, to the extent permitted under our agreements governing our debt, we could incur significant additional debt, liabilities or similar obligations in the future, some of which could constitute secured debt (such as additional debt under any credit agreement). In addition, if we form or acquire any subsidiaries in the future, those subsidiaries also could incur debt or similar liabilities. If new debt or similar liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. We may, from time to time, seek to opportunistically refinance, amend, reprice and/or otherwise replace any of our debt, obtain additional debt financing or enter into other financing arrangements, reduce or extend our debt, lower our interest payments or the cost of capital available to us under certain types of financing arrangements, or otherwise seek to improve our financial position or the terms of our debt or other financing agreements. These actions may include open market debt repurchases, negotiated repurchases, or other repayments, redemptions or retirements of our debt or other financing arrangements. The amount of debt that may be borrowed or issued, refinanced, and/or repurchased, repaid, redeemed or otherwise retired, if any, will depend on market conditions, trading levels of our debt, our cash position, compliance with our debt covenants and other considerations. Any such actions could impact our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to continue to access or renew financing sources and obtain capital, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be adversely impaired. We plan to use debt and other sources of financing to maintain and grow our business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter into or renew our credit facilities after their maturity dates on acceptable terms, or at all, or that we will be able to obtain additional or replacement financing on acceptable terms or at all. The availability of additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, our financial position, our results of operations, and the capacity for additional borrowing or other forms of financing under our existing financing arrangements. If our various financing alternatives were to become limited or unavailable, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business and our operations could be materially adversely impacted. 24 Table of Contents Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful. Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors, which may include factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. The agreements governing certain of our indebtedness are expected to provide that our borrowings will bear interest at a variable rate which would subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations or other costs of capital to increase significantly. Our borrowings under certain of the agreements governing our debt are expected to be priced using variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Market interest rates have increased over the past several years and may continue to increase as a result of action by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other factors, and as a result, variable-rate debt will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even if the amount borrowed were to remain the same. Although we may enter into interest rate swaps or similar instruments to reduce interest rate volatility in connection with our variable rate financing arrangements, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps or instruments will be effective. The terms governing our trade receivables facility, including the length of term, financial and other covenants, and obligations to remit collections on the sold receivables could restrict or otherwise limit our financial and business operations. We are a party to a trade receivables facility to allow, among other things, one of our wholly-owned, bankruptcy remote special purposes entities (an SPE) to sell to PNC Bank, National Association and other participating financial institutions an undivided ownership interest in a portion of the trade receivables owned by such SPE, in an amount not to exceed approximately $166 million at any point in time. The trade receivables facility has a term of two years and contains customary termination events, including termination events that are based on the performance of the pool of receivables, including the pools satisfaction of certain financial tests relating to the three-month rolling average ratios of defaults, delinquencies, dilution and days sales outstanding. If in the future we fail to renew our trade receivable facility or if a termination event occurs and we are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable purchasers, we would be required to continue remitting collections to the purchasers until the facility was terminated, and we would no longer benefit from the liquidity provided to us by the ability to sell our receivables. Such a result could adversely impact the cash that we have available to use in our financial and business operations. A termination event under the trade receivables facility may also result in an event of default or a termination event under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future capital costs and reduce our access to capital. Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing or capital from other financing arrangements. Our pension liabilities could adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Pursuant to the employee matters agreement, Atleos assumed sponsorship of the NCR United States (U.S.) pension plan and assumed or retained certain other non-U.S. pension plans (which are not fully-funded). In connection with Atleos assumption or retention of the NCR pension plans, as applicable, Atleos is responsible for the funding of all benefit obligations under the plans, including the obligation to make any cash contributions required by law. As of December 31, 2023, the funded status of the U.S. pension plan was an underfunded position of $333 million, and the funded status of the non-U.S. pension plans was a funded position of $162 million. Although NCR has taken several actions to improve the funded status of benefit obligations under the pension plans (including rebalancing the United States and international plan assets in order to reduce volatility, making several discretionary contributions to the pension plans and, from time to time, taking de-risking actions, such as plan settlements), the 25 Table of Contents remaining underfunded pension obligation continues to require ongoing cash contributions, which will be the responsibility of Atleos going forward. The underfunded pension obligation also may be affected by future asset transfers and settlements relating to the pension plans. In addition, certain of the pension plan assets remain subject to financial market risk, and our actuarial and other assumptions underlying the expected future benefit payments, long-term expected rate of return and future funding expectations for the pension plans depend on, among other things, interest rate levels and trends and capital market expectations. Further volatility in the performance of financial markets, changes in any of these actuarial assumptions or changes in regulations regarding minimum funding requirements could require material increases to our expected cash contributions to the pension plans in future years. We may be required to write down the value of certain significant assets, which would adversely impact our operating results. We have a number of significant assets on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2023 and the value of these assets can be adversely impacted by factors related to our business and operating performance, as well as factors outside of our control. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. See Note 7, Income Taxes, to the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements set forth herein. Our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, totaled approximately $431 million and $198 million as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate. Atleos has previously recorded valuation allowances related to certain deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits from those assets. The recorded valuation allowances cover deferred tax assets, primarily tax loss carryforwards in tax jurisdictions where there is uncertainty as to the ultimate realization of those tax losses. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income of the proper source in the time period within which the temporary differences underlying our deferred tax assets become deductible, or before the expiration of our loss additional valuation allowances could be required in the future. LAW & COMPLIANCE A failure or inability to protect our intellectual property, and other issues related to our and third-party intellectual property, especially third-party intellectual property infringement claims, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continuing ability to be a leading provider in our industry could be adversely impacted if we do not protect our intellectual property. It is critical to our strategy, and the benefits provided by our innovations and technologies, that we protect and can leverage and rely on our intellectual property, including our intellectual property rights. We protect our intellectual property, including our innovations and technologies, through intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secret rights. While we have numerous patents which cover various areas, we are not able to patent all of our innovations and technologies. In addition, it can take multiple years to receive a patent. We primarily rely on our copyrights and trade secret rights, provided under the laws of the U.S. and internationally, to protect our innovations and technologies. Despite our efforts to protect our innovations and technologies through intellectual property rights and our processes and procedures, such laws, processes and procedures may be insufficient, breached or otherwise fail to prevent unauthorized use, infringement, misappropriation or disclosure of our intellectual property, and such laws, processes and procedures may not provide adequate protection or remedies. It is also possible that third parties can independently develop, obtain or use similar innovations and technologies. To the extent we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property or such protection is insufficient, our business could be adversely impacted. Protecting our intellectual property through patents and other intellectual property rights is expensive and time-consuming, which can impact our ability to obtain such protection by certain of those rights, for example, through patents. As such, we may not be able to obtain protection, including through certain such rights, for some of our intellectual property. Where we are successful, it is expensive to maintain certain intellectual property rights, such as in the case of patents, which may impact our ability to maintain them, and they can be more limited than desired. Current and possible future changes to U.S. or foreign intellectual property laws and regulations, or interpretations of them, may harm our ability to obtain protection of our intellectual property, impact, or jeopardize the enforceability, validity or scope of our intellectual property rights. This along with other legal and business reasons could result in our inability to enforce, or impact the enforcement of, our intellectual property rights (including in view of the patent portfolio of third parties). We may be unable to obtain trademark protection, including trademark registrations, for our products or services and associated brands, and our existing and future trademarks may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products or services from those of our competitors. In addition, our trademarks, including registrations and 26 Table of Contents applications to register them, may be contested or found to be weak, unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from using, infringing or otherwise violating them. We will not always be able to ensure we have sufficient protection for, or sufficiently protect, our intellectual property where, for example, we fail to expect or detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which we do business, and the laws and regulations in countries outside of the U.S. where we do business or may do business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them as would be done under the laws and regulations of the U.S. Various factors outside our control pose a threat to our intellectual property. We may fail to obtain or be able to maintain effective or sufficient intellectual property protection, and some of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, resulting in reduced protection or being declared unenforceable or invalid. The time and cost required to defend our intellectual property rights can be substantial. There can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to prevent third parties from offering competitive products or services or that unauthorized third parties will not attempt to copy them or our intellectual Property, including our innovations or technologies, or use, misappropriate or disclose information that we consider confidential or proprietary. It is possible for third parties, including our competitors, to obtain patents relating to products, services, innovations and technologies that overlap or compete with ours and for such third parties to assert, and third parties have in the past asserted, that our products, services, innovations and technologies infringe their patents. Even though we may hold patents covering our products, services, innovations and technologies, it is possible for such third-party patents to effectively block the use of our products, services, innovations and technologies. In such cases, those third parties can seek to charge us a licensing fee or preclude the use of our products or services and file suit against us. Additionally, unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer our products, services or intellectual property or otherwise obtain, misappropriate or use our intellectual property and other information that we regard as confidential or proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Failure to obtain or maintain protection of our confidential information (including know-how and trade secrets), for example, through public disclosure (including by third parties), could harm our competitive position and materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Given the importance and our reliance on our intellectual property and its protection, we also rely in part on non-disclosure or confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to our confidential information, including employees, contractors and other third parties, which place restrictions on the disclosure and use of our intellectual property. We also enter into intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, contractors and consultants. We cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with all parties necessary to protect our intellectual property or that they will adhere to our confidentiality agreements. Individuals not subject to intellectual property assignments or other agreements assigning intellectual property to us may make adverse ownership claims to our intellectual property. Additionally, these agreements may be insufficient, limited or, even, declared invalid by certain current or future laws or regulations, or breached, or this intellectual property may be disclosed or become known to third parties, including our competitors, which could cause the loss of this intellectual property. We may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such disclosure or breaches. The loss of trade secret and other confidential information protection could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products and services by copying our innovations and technologies, including features and functionality. To the extent our employees, contractors or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to our rights in such intellectual property (including our rights to use such intellectual property) or our rights in related or resulting intellectual property, including innovations, technologies and know-how. To address infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property, we may need to file lawsuits, which can be expensive, time consuming and distracting to management and the business. Our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights in this manner may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the enforceability and validity of our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. From time to time, we receive notices and other communications from third parties, including our customers, regarding third-party claims of infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights. In response to those notices, in appropriate situations, we may have to use our patents (or, potentially, other intellectual property rights) in our defense of such claims, subjecting them to the foregoing risks. A large number of patents and other intellectual property rights exist in our industry. As a result, allegations and disputes related to these rights are asserted by, or arise in conjunction with, both practicing and non-practicing entities (often referred to as patent trolls) and other individuals or entities who claim to own intellectual property rights alleged to cover our products or services. As such, such individuals and entities may bring associated intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits against us. Because we provide specific indemnification to our customers with respect to claims of intellectual property infringement against the products and services we provide to them, we also (i) receive demands by our customers to defend and indemnify them with respect to intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits brought by a third party involving our products or services, and (ii) defend ourselves in connection with such demands from our customers. The frequency of these claims and lawsuits could increase. While we have a significant patent portfolio that might prove effective in deterring intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits brought against us by practicing entities, including competitors, that portfolio may provide little deterrence against intellectual 27 Table of Contents property infringement claims and lawsuits brought by non-practicing entities. This risk may be amplified if the frequency of intellectual property infringement claims and lawsuits brought by non-practicing entities increases. Whether intellectual property infringement claims, including by customers for indemnification, have merit or not, they may require significant resources and expenses to analyze, address and defend, and can be disruptive to our business. We may not prevail in a dispute or litigation related to an intellectual property infringement claim, and damages in a successful intellectual property infringement case (including resulting from an indemnity claim from one of our customers) can be significant and can be trebled if the infringement is found to be willful. In certain circumstances, we could be subject to an injunction that might adversely impact our business. In particular, an injunction could limit our ability to provide one or more of our products and services to the extent we are unable to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain, if available at all, a license for them. It could lead us to having to enter into a fee bearing, such as a royalty bearing, licensing agreement that we would not normally find reasonable or acceptable; cause a delay to the development of our products or services; require us to stop selling all or a portion of our products and services; require us to redesign at least certain products or services or components of them using alternative non-infringing technologies, processes or practices, which could require significant effort and expense. Accordingly, an adverse outcome in an intellectual property infringement case (including one resulting from our indemnification of one of our customers) may expose us to a loss of our competitive position or expose us to significant liabilities (including costs and damages). Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our offerings rely on innovations and technologies developed by third parties. If we are unable to continue to obtain licenses and rights for such innovations and technologies or substitutes for them, our business could be adversely impacted. Changes to our tax rates and additional income tax liabilities could impact profitability. We are a United States based multinational company subject to income taxes in the United States and a significant number of foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent on the distribution of our earnings across different jurisdictions, and our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely impacted if the distribution of earnings is higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates. In addition, changes in United States or foreign tax laws and regulations, which have become more frequent in recent years, or tax rulings could affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, in light of continuing global fiscal challenges, various levels of government and international organizations such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and EU are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue and establish minimum levels of corporate income tax. These tax reform efforts, such as the OECD-led Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (BEPS), are designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Although some countries have passed tax laws based on findings from the BEPS project, the final nature, timing and extent of any such tax reforms or other legislative or regulatory actions is unpredictable, and it is difficult to assess their overall effect. Additionally, tax law changes that could significantly reduce or limit our ability to utilize our deferred tax assets could have a material impact on our tax rate and cash tax payments. Any of these potential changes could increase our effective tax rate, increase cash tax payments and adversely impact our financial results. We are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the United States and internationally and could be subject to additional audits focusing on transfer pricing. While we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, the outcomes of which are not predictable and could result in material and adverse impacts on our operating results and financial position; we are also subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future and may create a substantial burden on us, and substantially increase costs to our organization or could have an impact on our future operating results. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including, for example, those that relate to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, employee benefits, import/export compliance, intellectual property, data privacy and security, payments services (including payment processing and settlement services), cryptocurrency, product liability, commercial disputes and regulatory compliance, among others. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable and we must make certain estimates and assumptions in our financial statements. Additionally, we are subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, environmental safety and the discharge of materials into the environment, product safety, import and export compliance, data privacy and security, antitrust and competition, government contracting, anti-corruption, and labor and human resources, which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future. Compliance with these laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and federal securities laws among others, may create 28 Table of Contents a substantial burden on us, and substantially increase costs to our organization or could have an impact on our future operating results. Atleos businesses that are customer-facing also expose the Company to additional compliance risks because we may be subject to certain consumer protection requirements such as oversight by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and similar state or foreign agencies in the jurisdictions where they operate. The Company will also be exposed to additional compliance risks in scope and geography as our payments-related offers expand into new markets, each with their own consumer protection requirements. In addition, the customer-facing nature of our payments-related business subjects the Company to increased risks of disputes with consumers, including litigation and class action litigation, and significant costs to address such matters. The volatility of cryptocurrency markets and the level of consumer understanding of cryptocurrencies may cause this risk to be greater than in more traditional customer-facing businesses. The Company also faces additional risks related to uncertainty in potential future regulation and legal oversight of markets and businesses engaged in products and services relating to blockchain technology, virtual currencies or cryptocurrencies. We expect new environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations that may affect us, our suppliers, and our customers. Climate change regulation in particular has been the subject of federal regulation in the United States as well as in other jurisdictions around the world. With President Bidens goals of 80 percent clean electricity and 50 percent economy-wide carbon emissions reductions by 2030, a number of proposals related to climate change have been introduced by U.S. Congress members. These proposals all seek to address climate change and a range of topics, including proposed legislation on land-use, energy, transportation, adaptation and finance. Such laws or regulations could cause us to incur additional direct costs for compliance, as well as increased indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers, or both incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. In addition, the SEC is expected to mandate climate-related risk disclosure in the near future, which may impact or prompt us to accelerate our climate change mitigating efforts already underway and may impose additional compliance and disclosure costs. Additionally, doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. For example, our international operations are subject to United States and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits U.S. companies or agents acting on behalf of such companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. Our international operations are also subject to economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. If we are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and to our brand and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to cryptocurrency regulations could impact profitability. The regulation of cryptocurrency is still an evolving area both domestically and internationally, and we expect that we could become subject to additional regulations and licensing requirements, including as a result of the expansion of our Bitcoin offerings and the increasing number of jurisdictions in which we provide these offerings. The evolving regulatory landscape may require us to make product changes, restrict product offerings in certain jurisdictions, or implement additional and potentially costly controls. If we fail to comply with regulations, requirements, or prohibitions applicable to us, we could face regulatory or other enforcement actions and potential fines and other consequences. RISKS RELATED TO THE SPIN-OFF Atleos may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off, and the spin-off may adversely impact Atleos business. Atleos may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits expected to result from the spin-off, or such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. The spin-off is expected to provide the following benefits, among others: Increased management focus on core business and distinct opportunities; Improved operational and strategic flexibility; Simplified investment profile and potential ability to enhance marketability; Tailored capital allocation strategies aligning with distinct business strategies and industry specific dynamics; Improved alignment of equity incentives; and The ability for each company to use distinct equity currency that relates solely to its business for pursuing strategic opportunities. 29 Table of Contents Atleos may not achieve these and other anticipated benefits for a variety of reasons, including, among others:(a) following the spin-off, Atleos stock price may be more susceptible to market fluctuations and other events particular to one or more of Atleos products than if it were still a part of NCR; and (b) following the spin-off, Atleos results of operations, cash flows, working capital, and financing requirements may be subject to increased volatility than they were prior to the spin-off. Additionally, Atleos may experience unanticipated competitive developments, including changes in the conditions of the markets of Atleos segments, and the other businesses it holds, that could negate the expected benefits from the spin-off. If Atleos does not realize some or all of the benefits expected to result from the spin-off, or if such benefits are delayed, the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of Atleos could be adversely impacted. If, Atleos is unable to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or its internal control over financial reporting is not effective, the reliability ofAtleos financial statements may be questioned and Atleos stock price may suffer. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires any company subject to the reporting requirements of the U.S. securities laws to do a comprehensive evaluation of its and its consolidated subsidiaries internal control over financial reporting. To comply with this statute, Atleos will be required, as of December 31, 2024, to document and test its internal control procedures, its management is required to assess and issue a report concerning its internal control over financial reporting and its independent auditors are required to issue an opinion on Atleos internal control over financial reporting. The rules governing the standards that must be met for management to assess Atleos internal control over financial reporting are complex and require significant documentation, testing and possible remediation to meet the detailed standards under the rules. During the course of its testing, Atleos management may identify material weaknesses or deficiencies which may not be remedied in time to meet the deadline imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If Atleos management concludes that Atleos internal control over financial reporting is not effective, or its auditors identify material weaknesses in Atleos internal controls, investor confidence in Atleos financial results may weaken, and Atleos stock price may suffer. Atleos has limited history operating as an independent, publicly traded company, and Atleos historical and pro forma financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that it would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and therefore may not be a reliable indicator of its future results. Atleos has limited operating history as an independent, publicly traded company. The historical information about Atleos in this annual report prior to the spin-off refers to Atleos business as part of NCR. Atleos historical and pro forma financial information is derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and accounting records of NCR. Accordingly, Atleos historical and pro forma financial information does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that Atleos will achieve as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that Atleos will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the factors described below: Atleos may need to make significant investments to replicate or outsource certain systems, infrastructure and functional expertise as a result of its spin-off from NCR. These initiatives to develop Atleos independent ability to operate without access to NCRs existing operational and administrative infrastructure will be costly to implement. Atleos may not be able to operate its business efficiently or at comparable costs, and its profitability may decline; and Atleos has relied upon NCR for working capital requirements and other cash requirements, including in connection with Atleos previous acquisitions. Subsequent to the spin-off, NCR will not be providing Atleos with funds to finance Atleos working capital or other cash requirements. After the spin-off, Atleos access to and cost of debt financing may be different from the historical access to and cost of debt financing under NCR. Differences in access to and cost of debt financing may result in differences in the interest rate charged to Atleos on financings, as well as the amounts of indebtedness, types of financing structures, and debt markets that may be available to Atleos, which could have an adverse effect on Atleos business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. NCR may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that were executed as part of the spin-off or Atleos may fail to have necessary systems and services in place when NCR is no longer obligated to provide services under the various agreements. Atleos and NCR entered into certain agreements, such as the separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, certain intellectual property agreements, an employee matters agreement, the commercial agreements and other agreements, which provide for the performance by each company for the benefit of the other for a period of time after the spin-off. If NCR is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its indemnification obligations in favor of Atleos, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. If Atleos does not have in place its own systems and services, and does not have agreements with other providers of these services when the transitional or other agreements terminate, or if Atleos does not implement the new systems or replace NCRs services successfully, Atleos may not be able to operate its business effectively, which could disrupt its business and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. These systems and services may also be more expensive to install, implement and operate, or less efficient than the systems and services NCR is expected to provide during the transition period. 30 Table of Contents Under applicable tax law, Atleos may be liable for certain tax liabilities of NCR following the spin-off if NCR were to fail to pay such taxes. After the spin-off, there is the possibility that certain liabilities of NCR could become Atleos obligations. For example, under the Code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the NCR United States consolidated group during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective time of the distribution is jointly and severally liable for the United States federal income tax liability of the entire NCR United States consolidated group for that taxable period. Consequently, if NCR is unable to pay the consolidated United States federal income tax liability for a prior period, Atleos could be required to pay the entire amount of such tax which could be substantial and in excess of the amount which may be allocated to it under the tax matters agreement that we intend to enter into with NCR. For a discussion of the tax matters agreement, see the section of the Companys information statement, which is included as Exhibit 99.1 to Atleos Current Report on Form 8-K that was furnished with the SEC on August 15, 2023 (the Information Statement), entitled Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAgreements with NCRTax Matters Agreement; other provisions of federal law establish similar liability for other matters. In connection with Atleos spin-off from NCR, NCR has and will indemnify Atleos for certain liabilities. However, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure Atleos against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NCRs ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. NCR has agreed to indemnify Atleos for certain liabilities as discussed further in the section of the Information Statement entitled Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAgreements with NCR. However, third parties could also seek to hold Atleos responsible for liabilities that NCR has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from NCR will be sufficient to protect Atleos against the full amount of such liabilities, or that NCR will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. In addition, NCRs insurers may attempt to deny coverage to Atleos for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the spin-off. In connection with our separation, Atleos has and will assume, and indemnify NCR for, certain liabilities. If we are required to make payments pursuant to these indemnities to NCR, we would need to meet those obligations and our financial results could be adversely impacted. Atleos has assumed and agreed to indemnify NCR for certain liabilities as discussed further in the section of the Information Statement entitled Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAgreements with NCR. Payments pursuant to these indemnities may be significant and could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, particularly indemnities relating to our actions that could impact the tax-free nature of the distribution or relating to environmental matters. If the distribution of shares of Atleos, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes, you and NCR could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability and, in certain circumstances, Atleos could be required to indemnify NCR for material taxes pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. It was a condition to the distribution of shares of Atleos that NCR receive an opinion of each of Skadden, tax counsel to NCR, and EY, tax advisor to NCR, substantially to the effect that, among other things, the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualified as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code. The Tax Opinions relied on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from NCR and Atleos, including those regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the Tax Opinions, the IRS could determine that the distribution or any such related transaction is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated, or that the distribution should be taxable for other reasons, including if the IRS were to disagree with the conclusions in the Tax Opinions. For more information regarding the Tax Opinions, see the section of the Information Statement entitled United States Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Distribution. If the distribution or any of the above referenced related transactions is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, a stockholder of NCR that has received shares of Atleos common stock in the distribution and NCR could each incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. In addition, NCR and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax obligations, whether under applicable law or under the tax matters agreement that we intend to enter into with NCR. For a discussion of the tax consequences of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, please refer to the section entitled United States Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Distribution. To preserve the tax-free treatment to NCR and its stockholders of the distribution and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement, Atleos is restricted from taking certain actions after the distribution that could adversely impact the intended U.S. federal income tax treatment of the distribution and such related transactions. 31 Table of Contents To preserve the tax-free treatment to NCR and its stockholders of the distribution and certain related transactions, under the tax matters agreement that Atleos entered into with NCR, Atleos is restricted from taking certain actions after the distribution that could adversely impact the intended U.S. federal income tax treatment of the distribution, together with certain related transactions. Failure to adhere to any such restrictions, including in certain circumstances that may be outside of our control, could result in tax being imposed on NCR for which we could bear responsibility and for which we could be obligated to indemnify NCR. In addition, even if we are not responsible for tax liabilities of NCR under the tax matters agreement, we nonetheless could potentially be liable under applicable tax law for such liabilities if NCR were to fail to pay such taxes. The terms of the tax matters agreement may, furthermore, restrict us from taking certain actions, particularly for the two years following the spin-off, including (among other things) the ability to freely issue stock, to make acquisitions and to raise additional equity capital. Any such restrictions could impair our ability to implement strategic initiatives. Also, any indemnity obligation to NCR might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control that we or our stockholders may consider favorable. These restrictions may limit Atleos ability to pursue certain strategic transactions or other transactions that it may believe to be in the best interests of its stockholders or that might increase the value of its business. In addition, under the tax matters agreement, Atleos is required to indemnify NCR against certain tax liabilities as a result of the acquisition of Atleos stock or assets, even if Atleos did not participate in or otherwise facilitate the acquisition. For a discussion of the tax matters agreement, see the section of the Information Statement entitled Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAgreements with NCRTax Matters Agreement. The spin-off and related internal restructuring transactions may expose Atleos to potential liabilities arising out of state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws and legal dividend requirements. The spin-off could be challenged under various state and federal fraudulent conveyance laws. Fraudulent conveyances or transfers are generally defined to include (a) transfers made or obligations incurred with the actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud current or future creditors or (b) transfers made or obligations incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value when the debtor was insolvent, or that rendered the debtor insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due. A creditor or an entity acting on behalf of a creditor (including, without limitation, a trustee or debtor-in-possession in a bankruptcy by NCR or Atleos or any of their respective subsidiaries) may bring a lawsuit alleging that the spin-off or any of the related transactions constituted a fraudulent conveyance. If a court accepts these allegations, it could impose a number of remedies, including, without limitation, voiding the distribution and returning Atleos assets or Atleos shares and subjecting NCR and/or Atleos to liability. The distribution of Atleos common stock is also subject to state corporate distribution statutes. Under the Maryland General Corporation Law (MGCL), a Maryland corporation, including NCR, generally may not pay a dividend if, after giving effect to the dividend, the corporation would not be able to pay its debts as such debts become due in the ordinary course of business or, except as provided in the next sentence, the corporations total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus, unless the corporations charter permits otherwise, the amount that would be needed, if the corporation were dissolved at the time of the dividend, to satisfy the preferential rights upon dissolution of stockholders whose preferential rights are superior to those receiving the dividend which, in NCRs case, includes the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Even if a Maryland corporation does not satisfy the second prong of the distribution test, a Maryland corporation may pay dividends to its stockholders from: (i) the net earnings of the corporation for the fiscal year, or preceding fiscal year, in which the distribution is made or (ii) the sum of the net earnings of the corporation for the preceding eight fiscal quarters. Although NCR made the distribution of Atleos common stock in accordance with the MGCL, neither Atleos nor NCR can ensure that a court would reach the same conclusion in determining the satisfaction of the distribution tests for the separation and the distribution to NCRs stockholders. Certain of Atleos executive officers and directors may have actual or potential conflicts of interest because of their previous positions at NCR. Because of their current or former positions with NCR, certain of Atleos executive officers and directors own equity interests in NCR. Following the spin-off, even though the Atleos Board of Directors consists of a majority of directors who are independent, and any of Atleos executive officers who were employees of NCR ceased to be employees of NCR upon the spin-off, some of Atleos executive officers and directors will continue to have a financial interest in shares of NCR common stock and equity awards. Continuing ownership of shares of NCR common stock and equity awards could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest if Atleos and NCR pursue the same corporate opportunities or face decisions that could have different implications for Atleos and NCR. Some contracts and other assets transferred or assigned from NCR or its affiliates to Atleos in connection with Atleos spin-off from NCR may require the consent of a third party. If such consent is not given, Atleos may not be entitled to the benefit of such contracts and other assets in the future, which could adversely impact Atleos financial condition and future results of operations. The separation and distribution agreement and various local transfer agreements will provide that in connection with Atleos spin-off from NCR, a number of contracts with third-parties and other assets are to be transferred or assigned from NCR or its affiliates to Atleos or its subsidiaries. However, the transfer or assignment of certain of these contracts or assets may require the consent of a 32 Table of Contents third party to such a transfer or assignment. Similarly, in some circumstances, Atleos and another business unit of NCR are joint beneficiaries of contracts, and Atleos will need to enter into a new agreement with the third-party to replicate the existing contract or be assigned the portion of the existing contract related to the Atleos business. It is possible that some parties may use the requirement of a consent or the fact that the spin-off is occurring to seek more favorable contractual terms from Atleos, to terminate the contract or, to otherwise request additional accommodations, commitments or other agreements from Atleos. If Atleos is unable to obtain such consents on commercially reasonable and satisfactory terms or if the contracts are terminated, Atleos may be unable to obtain the benefits, assets and contractual commitments which are intended to be allocated to Atleos as part of Atleos spin-off from NCR. The failure to timely complete the assignment of existing contracts or assets, or the negotiation of new arrangements, or a termination of any of those arrangements, could have a material adverse impact on Atleos financial condition and future results of operations. To the extent Atleos requires a specific arrangement and agrees to less favorable terms in connection with obtaining any consent to retain that arrangement, the basis for that arrangement may be less favorable than currently held by NCR and could adversely impact Atleos financial conditions and future results of operations. In addition, where Atleos did not obtain, or does not intend to obtain, consent from third-party counterparties based on Atleos belief that no consent is required, the third-party counterparties may challenge a transfer of assets on the basis that the terms of the applicable commercial arrangements require the third-party counterparties consent. Atleos may incur substantial litigation and other costs in connection with any such claims and, if Atleos does not prevail, Atleos ability to use these assets could be materially and adversely impacted. Atleos is not able to rely on the earnings, assets or cash flow of NCR and NCR will not provide funds to finance Atleos working capital or other cash requirements, which may impact the margins charged to Atleos on debt financings, the amounts of indebtedness, types of financing structures and debt markets that may be available to Atleos, and Atleos ability to make payments on and to refinance any indebtedness. Atleos has historically relied upon NCR to finance its working capital requirements and other cash requirements. Atleos is no longer able to rely on the earnings, assets or cash flow of NCR and NCR will not provide funds to finance Atleos working capital or other cash requirements. As a result, Atleos is responsible for obtaining and maintaining sufficient working capital and other funds to satisfy its cash requirements and for servicing its own debt. After the spin-off, Atleos access to and cost of debt financing may be different from the historical access to and cost of debt financing available to NCR. Differences in access to and cost of debt financing may result in differences in the margins charged to Atleos on debt financings, as well as the amounts of indebtedness, types of financing structures and debt markets that may be available to Atleos. In addition, if Atleos cash flow from operations is less than it anticipates, or if Atleos cash requirements are more than it expects, Atleos may require more additional access to capital and may need to incur additional debt or raise additional funds. However, debt or equity financing may not be available to Atleos on terms acceptable or favorable to Atleos, if at all, and will depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond Atleos control, such as the state of the credit and financial markets and other economic, financial and geopolitical factors. If Atleos incurs additional debt or raises equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders thereof rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of Atleos common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of such debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on Atleos operations than it is currently subject to. If Atleos raises funds through the issuance of additional equity, your percentage ownership in Atleos would be diluted. If Atleos is unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect Atleos financial condition, which could adversely impact your investment in Atleos. RISKS RELATED TO ATLEOS COMMON STOCK Atleos cannot be certain that an active trading market for its common stock will be sustained and Atleos stock price may fluctuate significantly. Atleos cannot guarantee that an active trading market will be sustained for its common stock, nor can Atleos predict the prices at which shares of its common stock may trade. Similarly, Atleos cannot predict the effect of the spin-off on the trading prices of its common stock. The combined trading prices of NCR common stock and Atleos common stock after the separation, as adjusted for any changes in the combined capitalization of these companies, may not be equal to or greater than the trading price of NCR common stock prior to the spin-off. The price at which Atleos common stock trades may fluctuate significantly. The market price of Atleos common stock may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, some of which may be beyond Atleos control, including: Atleos business profile, market capitalization or capital allocation policies may not fit the investment objectives of NCRs historical stockholders, causing a shift in Atleos investor base and Atleos common stock may not be included in some indices in which NCRs, prior to the spin off, common stock was included, causing certain holders to sell their shares; Atleos quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in its industry; 33 Table of Contents the failure of securities analysts to cover Atleos common stock; actual or anticipated fluctuations in Atleos operating results; changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or Atleos ability to meet those estimates; Atleos ability to meet its forward looking guidance; the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies; overall market fluctuations and domestic and worldwide economic conditions; and other factors described in these Risk Factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. Broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of Atleos common stock, regardless of Atleos operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, shareholder derivative lawsuits and/or securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. In addition, investors may have difficulty accurately valuing Atleos common stock. Investors often value companies based on the stock prices and results of operations of other comparable companies. Investors may find it difficult to find comparable companies and to accurately value Atleos common stock, which may cause the trading price of Atleos common stock to fluctuate. Any sales of substantial amounts of shares of Atleos common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur may cause the market price of Atleos common stock to decline. Atleos shares are freely tradeable without restriction or further registration under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), unless the shares are owned by one of Atleos affiliates, as that term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act. Atleos is unable to predict if and when large amounts of its common stock may be sold in the open market. Atleos is also unable to predict whether a sufficient number of buyers would be in the market at that time. In this regard, a portion of NCR common stock is held by index funds tied to stock indices. If Atleos is not included in these indices, these index funds may be required to sell Atleos common stock. Whether related to the foregoing or otherwise, sales of substantial amounts of shares of Atleos common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, may cause the market price of Atleos common stock to decline. Atleos cannot guarantee the timing, amount or payment of dividends on its common stock. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of future dividends to Atleos stockholders will fall within the discretion of the Atleos Board of Directors. The Atleos Board of Directors decisions regarding the authorization of dividends will depend on many factors, such as Atleos financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that the Atleos Board of Directors deems relevant. For more information, see the section of the Information Statement entitled Dividend Policy. Atleos ability to pay dividends will depend on its ongoing ability to generate cash from operations and access to the capital markets. Atleos cannot guarantee that it will pay a dividend in the future or continue to pay any dividend if Atleos commences paying dividends. Your percentage of ownership in Atleos may be diluted in the future. Your percentage ownership in Atleos may be diluted because of equity issuances for acquisitions, capital market transactions or otherwise, including, without limitation, equity awards that Atleos may grant to its directors, officers and employees. In addition, Atleos charter authorizes Atleos to issue, without the approval of Atleos stockholders, one or more classes or series of preferred stock having such designation, powers, preferences, and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, including preferences over Atleos common stock respecting dividends and distributions, as the Atleos Board of Directors generally may determine. The terms of one or more classes or series of preferred stock could dilute the voting power or reduce the value of Atleos common stock. For example, Atleos could grant the holders of preferred stock the right to elect some number of Atleos directors in all events or on the happening of specified events or to veto specified transactions. Similarly, the repurchase or redemption rights or liquidation preferences Atleos could assign to holders of preferred stock could affect the residual value of Atleos common stock. Certain provisions in Atleos charter and bylaws, and of Maryland law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of Atleos, which could decrease the trading price of the common stock. 34 Table of Contents Atleos charter and bylaws contain, and Maryland law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with the NCR Atleos Board of Directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. With respect to the charter and bylaws, these provisions include, among others: Authority of the Atleos Board of Directors to issue capital stock, including to issue a class or series of preferred stock with such preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of such class or series as the Atleos Board of Directors so determines; Members of the Atleos Board of Directors may be removed at any time, but only for cause, and then only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors, voting together as a single class; and Advance notice required for stockholder nominations of individuals for election to the Atleos Board of Directors and stockholder proposals of other business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders of not earlier than the 120th day, and not later than 5:00 p.m., eastern time, on the 90th day prior to the first anniversary of the proxy statement for the preceding years annual meeting, which shall set forth the information required by the bylaws. In addition, Atleos, as a Maryland corporation, is subject to various Maryland laws that may have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire Atleos and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers. These include: Maryland Business Combination Act:The Maryland Business Combination Act provides that, subject to certain exceptions and limitations, certain business combinations between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our then outstanding shares of stock) or an affiliate of any interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes two super-majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations, unless, among other conditions, our common stockholders receive a minimum price, as defined in the MGCL, for their shares of stock and the consideration is received in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested stockholder for its shares of stock. Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act:The Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act provides that, subject to certain exceptions, holders of control shares (defined as voting shares that, when aggregated with all other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a control share acquisition (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding control shares) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquirer, by our officers, or by our employees who are also directors of Atleos. Atleos bylaws contain a provision exempting acquisitions of shares of Atleos stock from the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Title 3, Subtitle 8 of the MGCL:These provisions of the MGCL will permit the Atleos Board of Directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement certain takeover defenses, including adopting a classified board or increasing the vote required to remove a director. Additionally, the MGCL provides, among other things, that the Atleos Board of Directors has broad discretion in adopting stockholders rights plans and has the sole power to fix the record date, time, and place for special meetings of the stockholders. To date, Atleos does not intend to adopt a stockholders rights plan. Atleos believes these provisions protect its stockholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with the Atleos Board of Directors and by providing the Atleos Board of Directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make Atleos immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that the Atleos Board of Directors determines is not in the best interests of Atleos and its stockholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Atleos bylaws contain an exclusive forum provision that could limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is favorable for such disputes and may discourage lawsuits against Atleos and any of our directors, officers or other employees. 35 Table of Contents Atleos bylaws provide that, unless Atleos Board of Directors otherwise determines, the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, or, if that court does not have jurisdiction, the U.S. District Court for the District of Maryland, Northern Division, is the sole and exclusive forum for (a) any Internal Corporate Claim, as such term is defined in the MGCL, other than any action asserting only claims arising under federal securities laws, including, without limitation, (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Atleos other than any action asserting solely claims under federal securities laws, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of any duty owed by any director or officer or other employee of Atleos to Atleos or to the stockholders of Atleos or (iii) any action asserting a claim against Atleos or any director or officer or other employee of Atleos arising pursuant to any provision of the MGCL, the charter or the bylaws of Atleos, or (b) any other action asserting a claim against Atleos or any director or officer or other employee of Atleos that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our stock is deemed to have notice of and consented to the provisions of our bylaws, including the exclusive forum provisions. This exclusive forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the stockholder believes is favorable for such disputes and may discourage lawsuits against us and any of our directors, officers or other employees. We believe that requiring these claims to be filed in a single court in Maryland is advisable because (i) litigating these claims in a single court avoids unnecessarily redundant, inconvenient, costly and time-consuming litigation in multiple forums and (ii) Maryland courts are authoritative on matters of Maryland law and Maryland judges have more experience in dealing with issues of Maryland corporate law than judges in any other state. We could be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders. While we seek to actively engage with stockholders and consider their views on business, strategy, and environmental, social and governance issues, responding to these stockholders could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management. Uncertainties associated with such activities could interfere with our ability to effectively execute our strategic plan, impact customer retention and long-term growth, and limit our ability to hire and retain personnel. In addition, actions of these stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY Risk Management and Strategy We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying, and managing material risks associated with cybersecurity threats, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K. The Company has an enterprise risk management (ERM) program to identify, evaluate, and manage risks, including cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity risks are evaluated alongside other critical business risks under the ERM program. The Company believes that integrating cybersecurity risks into its ERM program fosters a proactive and holistic approach to cybersecurity, which helps safeguard the Companys operations, financial condition, and reputation in an ever-evolving threat landscape. Atleos ERM programs support the Companys strategic objectives and corporate governance responsibilities. The ERM programs include the following primary objectives: Establish a standard risk framework and supporting policies and processes to identify, assess, respond to, and report on business risks and opportunities, including cybersecurity threats; Establish clear roles and responsibilities in support of the Companys risk management activities, including cybersecurity; Ensure appropriate independent oversight of business risks and opportunities and the impacts of related business decisions on the Companys risk profiles and tolerances; Ensure appropriate communication and reporting of business risks and opportunities including related response strategies and controls to Atleos executive leadership and Board of Directors; and Provide relevant training to executives, managers and employees. We utilize various information technology and data protection services to help detect and prevent cyberattacks, including but not limited to firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management system, multiple threat intelligence services, threat hunting managed security service provider (MSSP), identity management technology, security analytics, multi-factor authentication and encryption. There can be no assurance that our protections will always be successful and any failure 36 Table of Contents could result in loss, disclosure, theft, destruction or misappropriation of, or access to, our confidential information and cause disruption of our business, damage to our reputation, legal exposure and financial losses. The Company has also established relationships with cybersecurity firms and internal cybersecurity experts, which it engages in connection with certain suspected incidents. The Company also regularly undergoes evaluation of its protections against incidents, including both self-assessments and expert third-party assessments, and it regularly enhances those protections, both in response to specific threats and as part of the Companys efforts to stay current with advances in cybersecurity defense. To further our commitment to data privacy and cybersecurity: Atleos maintains the ISO 27001 certification for certain locations throughout the United States, Europe, Australia, and India; Third-party audits for PCI-DSS, PA-DSS and SSAE-18 SOC2 are conducted for certain service offerings; Atleos engages third party experts to perform penetration tests to attempt to infiltrate our information systems, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K; Atleos maintains a robust information security awareness and training program. Employees and contingent workers are required to complete training within 30 days of hire, as well as an annual refresher course; Atleos performs regular testing to help ensure employees can identify email phishing attacks; and Atleos corporate insurance policies include certain information security risk policies that cover network security, privacy and cyber events. As part of our overall ERM approach, our third-party risk management program is designed to ensure proper risk identification and oversight of Atleos vendors and includes the following objectives: Perform risk-based segmentation and prioritization of all existing and new Atleos vendors; Perform sanctions screenings on all vendors and anti-bribery, anti-corruption screenings on applicable vendors; Perform extended due diligence on identified high risk vendors to include responsible sourcing, business continuity, information security, data privacy, and other reviews as applicable; and Perform a financial risk assessment on identified high risk vendors The Company also employs advanced screening and due diligence processes and tools, including data privacy and cybersecurity specific evaluations as applicable, as part of our standard third-party onboarding and continuous monitoring processes. As of the date of this report, the Company has not identified any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected or are reasonably anticipated to have a material effect on the organization. Although the Company has not experienced cybersecurity incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the Company has experienced cyberattacks in the past, which the Company believes have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the Company. For a detailed discussion of the Companys cybersecurity related risks, see Item 1.A Risk FactorsData protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could adversely impact our business. Governance The Board Cybersecurity is an important part of our risk management processes and an area of focus for our Board and management. The Audit Committee of the Board has oversight responsibility for the Companys Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, including managing cybersecurity threat risks and cybersecurity incidents. Specifically, the Audit Committee oversees the design, implementation and maintenance of an effective ERM framework for the Companys overall operational, information security, strategic, reputational, technology, and other risks. To fulfill its oversight responsibility, the Audit Committee also regularly reviews, consults, and discusses with management on strategic direction, challenges, and risks faced by the Company. The Audit Committee also regularly receives management reports on information security and enhancements to cybersecurity protections, including benchmarking assessments, which it then shares with the Board. Included among the members of both the Board and the Audit Committee are directors with substantial expertise in cybersecurity matters, and Board members actively engage in dialogue on the Companys information security plans, and in discussions of improvements to the Companys cybersecurity defenses. When, in managements or the Boards judgment, a threatened cybersecurity incident has the potential for material impacts, management, the Board and applicable committees of the Board will engage to assess and manage the incident. As discussed below, members of management report to the Audit Committee which reports to the entire Board about cybersecurity threat risks, among other cybersecurity related matters, at least annually. 37 Table of Contents Management At the management level, Atleos also established the Office of Risk Management and appointed a Chief Risk Officer to assist the Company in fulfilling its objectives relating to enterprise risk management (ERM), ethics & compliance (E&C), data privacy, third-party risk management (TPRM), business continuity planning (BCP) and sustainability. The Companys Chief Risk Officer is responsible for developing and managing formal programs designed to identify, assess and respond to material and emerging risks and opportunities that may impact the achievement of the Companys strategic objectives. Under the direction of Atleos Chief Security & Cash Operations Officer, the Global Information Security organization is responsible for implementing and maintaining an information security program with the goal to protect information technology resources and protect the confidentiality and integrity of data gathered on our people, partners, customers, and business assets. Also, we employ various information technology and protection methods designed to promote data security including firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly-based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management system, identity management technology, security analytics, multi-factor authentication and encryption. In addition to the Chief Risk Officer, our Chief Compliance Officer has a direct channel to the Board. Further, our Chief Compliance Officer oversees investigations pertaining to fraud, conflicts of interest, violations of laws, and other similar matters, and reports on those activities to one or more Committees of the Board. All of these channels to the Board are designed to: prevent risks and initiatives from being siloed into one channel and provide a clear and accurate picture of the Companys evolving risk landscape. Our Chief Risk Officer has 20+ years of experience developing and leading global risk organizations across multiple Fortune 500 companies. He holds an undergraduate degree in aerospace engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology. Our Chief Compliance Officer has 40+ years of experience leading global legal and compliance departments. He holds an undergraduate degree in economics from the Wharton School of Business and a Juris Doctor from Columbia University School of Law. Our Chief Security and Cash Operations Officer has extensive expertise in a wide array of information and physical security operations, emphasizing threat and vulnerability management, malware protection and cyber forensics. He has served in various security leadership roles and holds multiple patents for systems and methods related to information security risk assessment. He holds a bachelors degree from Midwestern State University. Item 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2023, Atleos operated 277 facilities consisting of approximately 3.3 million square feet in 56 countries throughout the world, which are generally used by all of Atleos operating segments. On a square footage basis, 13% of these facilities are owned and 87% are leased. Within the total facility portfolio, Atleos operates two research and development and manufacturing facilities totaling 0.1 million square feet, 100% of which is leased. The remaining 3.2 million square feet of space includes office, repair, and warehousing space and other miscellaneous sites, and is 86% leased. Atleos is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Our address at our corporate headquarters is 864 Spring Street Northwest, Atlanta, Georgia, 30308 USA. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings is included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 38 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information Atleos common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and trades under the symbol NATL. There were approximately 66,170 holders of Atleos common stock as of March 15, 2024. Dividends Atleos did not pay cash dividends in 2023. The declaration of dividends has certain restrictions under our senior secured credit facility and the terms of the indentures for our senior unsecured notes, and is further subject to the discretion of Atleos Board of Directors. Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the relative investment performance of Atleos stock, the Russell 2000 Stock Index, Standard & Poors Composite 1500 Transaction & Payment Processing Services Index and the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index. This graph covers the period from October 17, 2023, the first trading day of Atleos common stock following the separation from NCR Corporation, through December 31, 2023. Company / Index 10/23 11/23 12/23 NCR Atleos Corporation $ 103 $ 104 $ 114 S&P 500 Stock Index $ 96 $ 105 $ 109 Russell 2000 Index $ 94 $ 103 $ 115 S&P Composite 1500 Transaction & Payment Processing Services Index $ 95 $ 105 $ 108 (1) In each case, assumes a $100 investment on October 17, 2023, and reinvestment of all dividends, if any. 39 Table of Contents Purchase of Company Common Stock The Company occasionally purchases vested restricted stock or exercised stock options at the current market price to cover withholding taxes. For the three months ended December 31, 2023, 0.3 million shares of vested restricted stock were purchased at an average price of $23.04 per share. The Companys repurchase of its common stock has certain restrictions under our senior secured credit facility and the terms of the indentures for our senior unsecured notes, and is further subject to the discretion of Atleos Board of Directors. Item 6. [Reserved] 40 Table of Contents Index to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Page Overview 42 Business Overview 42 Strategic Initiatives and Trends 44 Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges 45 Results of Operations 46 Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 52 Critical Accounting Estimates 55 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 59 41 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors in Item 1A of this Annual Report for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the year as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations by comparing the results for the year ended December 31, 2023 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2022. Refer to the section below entitled Spin-off from NCR for additional information regarding the basis of presentation. Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2023. Critical accounting estimates. This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. For managements discussion of our consolidated results for the year ended December 31, 2022 in comparison with the year ended December 31, 2021, and other financial information related to fiscal year 2022, refer to the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, included in our Form 10 (as previously referred to as NCR ATMCo), and in our information statement, which is included as Exhibit 99.1 to Atleos Current Report on Form 8-K that was furnished with the SEC on August 15, 2023 (the Information Statement). OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Atleos is an industry-leading financial technology company providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base including financial institutions, merchants, manufacturers, retailers and consumers. Self-directed banking is a rapidly growing, secular trend that allows banking customers to transact seamlessly between various channels all for the same transaction. Our comprehensive solutions enable the acceleration of self-directed banking through automated teller machine (ATM) and interactive teller machine (ITM) technology, including software, services, hardware and our proprietary Allpoint network. While we provide all our solutions on a modular basis, we have also assembled these capabilities into a turnkey, end-to-end platform which we have branded ATM as a Service. Atleos operates two leading business segments focused on facilitating self-service banking through ATMs supported by a shared set of tools, systems and platforms. In addition, we operate a Telecommunications and Technology (T&T) segment offering managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. We manage our operations in the following segments: Self-Service Banking, Network, and T&T. Self-Service Banking - Offers solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer solutions to manage 42 Table of Contents and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that include back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Network - Provides a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, neobanks, and retailers to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our ATM network, including our proprietary Allpoint network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via ReadyCode (formerly Pay360). We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions, ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses, and our LibertyX business gives consumers the ability to buy and sell Bitcoin. T&T - Offers managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. Our customers rely on us as a strategic partner to help them reduce complexity, improve cost efficiency, and enable global geographical reach. We deliver expert professional, field, and remote services for modern network technologies including Software-Defined Wide Area Networking, Network Functions Virtualization, Wireless Local Area Networks, Optical Networking, and Edge Networks. Spin-off from NCR On September 15, 2022, NCR Corporation (now known as NCR Voyix Corporation or Voyix, and referred to as NCR prior to the Separation), announced its plan to separate its businesses into two distinct, publicly traded companies, whereby NCR would execute a Spin-off to NCR shareholders of its self-service banking, network, and telecommunications and technology businesses (the Spin-off or Separation). On September 22, 2023, the Board of Directors of NCR authorized the Spin-off of Atleos, which was completed on October 16, 2023. The Spin-off was achieved by means of a pro-rata distribution of all of Atleos common stock to Voyixs shareholders at the close of business on October 2, 2023 (Record Date) (collectively, the Distribution). Each holder of NCRs common stock received one share of Atleos common stock for every two shares of NCR common stock held as of the Record Date. Upon completion of the Distribution, on October 17, 2023, the Company commenced trading as an independent public company under the ticker symbol NATL on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Following the Distribution, Voyix does not beneficially own any shares of Atleos common stock and will no longer consolidate Atleos results with any Voyix results. In connection with the Spin-off, we have incurred and expect to incur in the future one-time separation costs, which include one-time and non-recurring expenses associated with the Spin-off and stand up of functions required to operate as a stand-alone public entity. These non-recurring costs primarily relate to system implementation costs, business and facilities separation, applicable employee related costs, development of our brand and other matters. We expect the separation-related costs will continue through at least fiscal year 2024. Periods prior to Separation On October 16, 2023, the Company became a standalone publicly traded company, and its financial statements are now presented on a consolidated basis. Prior to the Separation, the Companys historical combined financial statements were prepared on a standalone basis and were derived from NCRs consolidated financial statements and accounting records. The financial statements for all periods presented, including the historical results of the Company prior to October 16, 2023, are now referred to as Consolidated Financial Statements, and have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Prior to the Separation, the Consolidated Statements of Operations include all revenues and costs directly attributable to Atleos, including costs for facilities, functions and services used by Atleos. Atleos businesses have historically functioned together with the other businesses controlled by NCR. Accordingly, Atleos relied on NCRs corporate overhead and other support functions for its business. Therefore, certain corporate overhead and shared costs have been allocated to Atleos including (i) certain general and administrative expenses related to NCR support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within NCR (e.g., expenses for corporate facilities, executive oversight, treasury, finance, legal, human resources, compliance, information technology, employee benefit plans, stock compensation plans, and other corporate functions) and (ii) certain operations support costs incurred by NCR, including product sourcing, maintenance and support services, and other supply chain functions. These expenses have been specifically identified, when possible, or allocated based on revenues, headcount, usage or other allocation methods that are considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or benefit received. Management considers that such allocations have been made on a reasonable basis consistent with benefits received but may not necessarily be indicative of the costs that would have been incurred if Atleos had been operated on a standalone basis for the periods presented. All charges and 43 Table of Contents allocations for facilities, functions and services performed by NCR have had been deemed settled in cash by Atleos to NCR in the period in which the cost was recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Prior to the Separation, NCR utilized a centralized approach to managing its treasury operations. The cash and cash equivalents held by NCR at the corporate level were not specifically identifiable to Atleos; and therefore, had not been reflected in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets prior to Separation. Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash in the Consolidated Balance Sheets prior to Separation represent cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash held by legal entities of the Company that were specifically attributable to the Company. Prior to the Separation, NCRs external debt and related interest expense had not been attributed to the Company for the periods presented because NCRs borrowings were neither directly attributable to the Company nor was the Company the legal obligor of such borrowings. Prior to the Separation, transactions historically settled in cash between the Company and NCR had been reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Related party receivable, Related party payable, or Borrowings from related party with the aggregate net effect of those related party transactions reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as Related party receivables and payables within operating activities, Amounts advanced for or Repayments received from related party notes receivable in investing activities, or Proceeds from or payments on related party borrowings within financing activities. Other balances between the Company and NCR were considered to be effectively settled in the Consolidated Financial Statements at the time the transactions were recorded. The aggregate net effect of transactions between the Company and NCR that were not historically settled in cash had been reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as Net investment from NCR Corporation and in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as Net transfers from (to) NCR Corporation within financing activities. Prior to the Separation, income tax expense and tax balances were calculated on a separate tax return basis. The separate tax return method applies the accounting guidance for income taxes to the standalone financial statements as if the Company was a separate taxpayer and a standalone company even though the Company filed as part of NCRs tax group in certain jurisdictions prior to Separation. The Companys portion of income tax expense for domestic, and certain jurisdictions outside the United States (U.S.), were deemed to have been settled in the period the related tax expense was recorded. Net investment from NCR Corporation in the Consolidated Balance Sheets represents NCRs historical investment in the Company, the accumulated net earnings after taxes and the net effect of the transactions with and allocations from NCR. Periods Post Separation For the period subsequent to October 16, 2023, as a standalone publicly traded company, Atleos presents its financial statements on a consolidated basis. The Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement and various other agreements with Voyix. These agreements provide a framework for our relationship with Voyix and govern various interim and ongoing relationships between Atleos and Voyix. These agreements with Voyix are described in the section of the Information Statement titled Certain Relationships and Related Transactions-Agreements with NCR. Following the Separation, certain functions continue to be provided by or for Voyix under the Transition Services Agreements or are being performed using Atleos own resources or third-party service providers. Additionally, certain maintenance services, manufacturing services, product resale and other support services and supply chain operations will continue to be provided by or to Voyix under the Commercial Agreements. STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS Atleos is expected to be a cash-generative business positioned to focus on delivering ATM as a Service to a large, installed customer base across banks and retailers. We believe it will build on our leadership in self-service banking and ATM networks to meet global demand for ATM access and leverage new ATM transaction types, including digital currency solutions, to drive market growth. Atleos is expected to also continue shifting to a highly recurring revenue model to drive stable cash flow and capital returns to shareholders. Additionally, we plan to capitalize on opportunities presented by the acquisitions of Cardtronics plc (Cardtronics) and LibertyX to accelerate our Network business as we go to market with a more robust offering in this segment. Cardtronics is expected to accelerate our ATM as a Service strategy by adding the Allpoint debit network, and LibertyX is expected to enable Atleos to provide a digital currency solutions, including the ability to buy and sell Bitcoin and conduct cross-border remittance using Bitcoin. 44 Table of Contents We also plan to continue to improve our execution to drive solid returns and to transform our business to enhance value for all shareholders. Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures such as higher interest rates, commodity and energy prices, foreign currency fluctuations, and increased logistics costs as a result of geopolitical challenges, including those due in part to the war between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict between Israel and Hamas. We continue to navigate through these challenges with a sharp focus on and goal of safeguarding our employees, helping our customers and managing impacts on our supply chain. Despite the rapidly changing environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. The bank failures in 2023, in addition to other global macroeconomic conditions, have caused a degree of uncertainty in the investor community and among bank customers, and could significantly impact the national, regional and local banking industry and the global business environment in which Atleos operates. The Company does not believe that the circumstances of these bank failures are indicators of broader issues within the banking system. However, if there is a severe or prolonged economic downturn, it could result in a variety of risks to our business, including driving banking customers to tighten budgets and curtail spending, which would negatively impact our sales and business. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the duration and severity of these geopolitical and macroeconomic pressures and any governmental and public actions taken in response. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. For further information on the risks posed to our business from geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, refer to Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K, including the risk factor titled, A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. For further information on exposures to interest rate and foreign exchange risk, refer to Item 7A,