Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) First Quarter Overview The following were the significant events for the first quarter of 2020 , each of which is discussed more fully in later sections of this MD&A: Revenue decreased approximately 2% from the prior year period and 1% excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts; Segment results negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and Nashville Global Fulfillment Center outage; Cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2020 of $1.21 billion , to improve liquidity to help manage through the COVID-19 pandemic; and Task force implemented to pro-actively manage the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our employees, customers and business. Strategic Overview Today's consumers expect, including as the world navigates in a COVID-19 pandemic environment, businesses to provide a rich, integrated and personalized experience across all commerce channels, including online, mobile and, increasingly as consumers are able to return to a more normal operating environment, in-store. NCR is at the forefront of this shift, assisting businesses of every size in their digital transformation journeys. Our mission is to be the leading software- and services-led enterprise provider in the financial, retail and hospitality industries. In the short-term, our focus has shifted to plans to manage our business through the COVID-19 pandemic, while prioritizing the health and safety of our employees and customers, and being positioned to capitalize on market opportunities when we return to a more normal operating environment. However, we also remain focused on our long-term mission, for which we have developed a long-term growth strategy built on taking care of our customers, improving execution of new product introductions, accelerating software and services revenue growth and executing spend optimization programs. This long-term mission and our strategy to execute it are designed to position NCR to continue to drive -- in the long-term -- growth, sustainable revenue, profit and cash flow, and to improve value for all of our stakeholders. To deliver on our short-term and long-term mission and strategy, we are focused on the following main initiatives in 2020: Customer Care - Support our consumers to continue operations in a safe manner and enable them to transform their operations rapidly to meet consumer needs and emerging industry or government programs in the COVID-19 environment; improve the customer experience and execution of new product introductions; Business Continuity Plans - Manage our business through the COVID-19 pandemic by focusing on business continuity plans, reducing our planned capital expenditures, improving our liquidity and increasing our financial flexibility to position our business, in the long-term, to accelerate profitable top-line revenue growth by investing in and shifting our revenue mix to recurring software and services revenue streams we identify as strategic growth platforms, while improving the Companys cost structure; Strategic Growth Platforms and Targeted Acquisitions - In the short-term, we plan to reduce expenditures on targeted acquisitions as we manage our business through the COVID-19 pandemic to enable our business, in the long term, to increase capital expenditures in strategic growth platforms and targeted acquisitions to gain solutions that drive the highest growth and return on investment and will accelerate our NCR-as-a-Service vision; Talent and Employee Care - Implement actions to protect the health and safety of our employees and protect as many jobs as possible to enable us to retain talent, and, in the long term, to continue to develop, reward and retain talent with competitive recruiting, training and effective incentive-based compensation programs; and Sales Enablement - Provide our sales force with flexibility in services and operations to meet customer needs through the COVID-19 pandemic; and provide top-performing and secure products packaged to target our desired revenue mix and drive customer delight, as well as invest in appropriate training programs to enable success. Potentially significant risks to the execution of our initiatives and achievement of our strategy include the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our workforce, operations and financial results, including the impact on our customers businesses; manufacturing disruptions, including those caused by or related to outsourced manufacturing or disruptions in our supply chain due to the COVID-19 pandemic ; strength of demand for the products we offer or will offer in the future consistent with our strategy and its 43 Table of Contents effect on our businesses; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from the imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial services and retail industries, new tax legislation across multiple jurisdictions, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, execution of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices; the transformation of our business and shift to increased software and services revenue, as well as recurring revenue; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete in the technology industry; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; the impact of the March 2020 tornadoes in the greater Nashville area on an NCR Global Fulfillment Center in Mt. Juliet, Tennessee operated by a third party, including the sufficiency and effectiveness of our or our third-party logistics partners business continuity plans, the adequacy of our property damage and business interruption insurance coverage and our ability to recover under the applicable policies; defects or errors in our products; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; the historical seasonality of our sales; tax rates and tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction savings initiatives; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligations; reliance on third party suppliers; the impact of the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in certain geographical markets; development and protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; uncertainties or delays associated with the transition of key business leaders; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims, and other matters across various jurisdictions. Impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic The impact of COVID-19 has grown throughout the world, including in the United States. Governmental authorities have implemented numerous measures attempting to contain and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and shutdowns. We have been actively monitoring the global outbreak and spread of COVID-19 and taking steps to mitigate the potential risks to us posed by its spread and related circumstances and impacts. We continue to assess and update our business continuity plan in the context of this pandemic. We have taken precautions to help keep our workforce healthy and safe, including establishing a coronavirus task force in January 2020, thermal screening procedures at our manufacturing plants and call centers and remote working arrangements for the vast majority of our back-office employees. We expect the pandemic to create headwinds to our customers and our business until COVID-19 is contained, consumer confidence improves and the economic considerations rebound. Although, it is difficult to project how deep and how long the COVID-19 pandemic will last, we do expect it will negatively impact our business for at least the remainder of 2020. With respect to our Banking segment, we are working with local governments to make sure that these businesses are designated as essential critical infrastructure businesses. Although we experienced installation delays, we have not experienced any significant impact to our recurring services revenue stream. We believe our ATM break-fix services, which represented the largest percentage of Banking segment revenue has remained strong, although there can be no assurance that such operations will not be impacted in the future with higher costs or labor availability. With respect to our Retail segment, the food, drug and mass merchandising market, which includes grocery stores, drug stores and big box retailers, and which represented the majority of our Retail segment revenue, is currently designated as an essential critical infrastructure business in many jurisdictions. We have realigned our resources to support our customers as they respond to changing consumer demand, particularly with regard to self-checkout and contactless checkout. However, customers in our department and specialty retail market and in our small and medium business market, which is approximately 20% of our Retail segment revenue, have encountered significant adverse impacts in connection with COVID-19 as a result of temporary closures of physical stores and reduced consumer spending. With respect to our Hospitality segment, the quick service restaurants, which are large chains and represent the majority of the Hospitality segment revenue, have remained busy with respect to drive-through and pick up services being in demand as many in-restaurant dining options are limited by social distancing and governmental orders. However, we do expect this market to be negatively impacted from lower new stores and less remodeling activity. For table service restaurants, which are sit-down restaurants with more than 50 locations, we expect negative impacts as a result of shelter-in-place orders. Although many of these businesses have experienced an increase in online and takeout ordering, we expect this market to be negatively impacted until consumer confidence improves once COVID-19 is contained. Customers in our small and medium business market have experienced significant working capital and adverse cash flow impacts as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which, similar to table service restaurants, is expected to continue until COVID-19 is contained and the economy begins to rebound. 44 Table of Contents In order to build a stronger liquidity position, we have taken steps to improve working capital and are addressing certain business impacts with spending cuts. We have taken several steps to build our cash reserve to improve our financial liquidity and flexibility and provide a cushion to help weather the impacts of the pandemic. These steps include suspending our share repurchase programs, limiting our mergers and acquisition activity, reducing salary for members of our leadership team and certain salaried employees, reducing our planned capital expenditures, eliminating most contractors, curtailing travel, freezing merit increases and hiring. Additionally, on March 24, 2020, we drew the remaining available funds of $630 million on our five-year, $1.1 billion revolving credit facility and on April 13, 2020, we issued $400 million senior unsecured notes. The degree to which COVID-19 affects our financial results and operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. Results from Operations For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 The following table shows our results for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2020 2019 Revenue $ 1,503 $ 1,536 Gross margin 397 411 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 26.4 % 26.8 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 255 $ 252 Research and development expenses 65 59 Income from operations $ 77 $ 100 The following table shows our revenue by geography for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2020 % of Total 2019 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Americas $ 892 59% $ 920 60% (3)% (2)% Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 403 27% 419 27% (4)% (2)% Asia Pacific (APJ) 208 14% 197 13% 6% 7% Consolidated revenue $ 1,503 100% $ 1,536 100% (2)% (1)% The following table shows our revenue by segment for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2020 % of Total 2019 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Banking $ 763 51% $ 758 49% 1% 3% Retail 472 31% 511 33% (8)% (7)% Hospitality 169 11% 193 13% (12)% (12)% Other 99 7% 74 5% 34% 34% Consolidated revenue $ 1,503 100% $ 1,536 100% (2)% (1)% (1) The tables above for the three months ended March 31 are presented with period-over-period revenue growth or declines on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. We calculate this information by translating prior period revenue growth at current period monthly average exchange rates. We believe that examining period-over-period revenue growth or decline excluding foreign currency fluctuations is useful for assessing the 45 Table of Contents underlying performance of our business, and our management uses revenue growth adjusted for constant currency to evaluate period-over-period operating performance. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, period-over-period revenue growth under GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of geographic revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2020 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Americas (3)% (1)% (2)% EMEA (4)% (2)% (2)% APJ 6% (1)% 7% Consolidated revenue (2)% (1)% (1)% The following table provides a reconciliation of segment revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2020 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Banking 1% (2)% 3% Retail (8)% (1)% (7)% Hospitality (12)% % (12)% Other 34% % 34% Consolidated revenue (2)% (1)% (1)% Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 , revenue decreased 2% due to decreases in the Retail and Hospitality segments partially offset by an increase in the Banking segment. We estimate the combination of the Nashville Global Fulfillment Center outage and COVID-19 negatively impacted first quarter revenue by approximately $75 million to $80 million and was primarily impacted in hardware and attached software. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Banking revenue increased 1% due to an increase in software and services revenue partially offset by an 8% decline in ATM revenue. The ATM revenue decline was mainly the result of COVID-19 border closures and logistical delays. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 2% on the revenue comparison. Retail revenue decreased 8% driven by a decline in hardware revenue partially offset by an increase in software and services revenue. The decline in hardware was driven by a large customer roll-out in the prior year as well as delays from the COVID-19 pandemic and the Nashville outage. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Hospitality revenue decreased 12% mainly driven by a decline in hardware revenue. This decline was largely attributable to the Nashville outage and the COVID-19 pandemic. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have an impact on the revenue comparison. The changes to segment revenue and the drivers thereof are discussed in further detail under " Revenue and Operating Income by Segment " below. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2020 was 26.4% compared to 26.8% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2020 included $7 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles. Gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2019 included $8 million of costs related to restructuring and transformation initiatives and $6 million related to acquisition-related amortization of intangibles. Excluding these items, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased from 27.7% to 26.9% due to the decline in hardware volumes in all segments and investment in services, partially offset by the increase in software revenue. 46 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $255 million , or 17.0% as a percentage of revenue, as compared to $252 million , or 16.4% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019 , respectively. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2020 included $15 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $5 million of costs related to restructuring and transformation initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2019 included $15 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $15 million of costs related to restructuring and transformation initiatives. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 14.5% as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 to 15.6% as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2020 due to the planned increased expenses from strategic acquisitions completed in the prior year as well as the impact from higher accounts receivable reserves due to increased risk from COVID-19 uncertainties. Research and development expenses were $65 million , or 4.3% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2020 as compared to $59 million , or 3.8% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2019 included $3 million of costs related to our restructuring and transformation initiatives. Excluding these costs, research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue increased from 3.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 to 4.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2020 due to increased investments in our strategic growth platforms. Interest and Other Expense Items Interest expense was $50 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $45 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The increase was due to higher average outstanding principal debt balances as well as higher interest rates on the Company's senior unsecured notes. Other expense, net was $2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Other expense, net in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 included $2 million and $6 million , respectively, of losses from foreign currency remeasurement and foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim (quarterly) periods are based on an estimated annual effective income tax rate calculated separately from the effect of significant, infrequent or unusual items. Income tax expense was $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to income tax expense of $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The change was primarily driven by lower income before taxes and an increase in discrete tax benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2020. NCR is subject to numerous federal, state and foreign tax audits. While NCR believes that appropriate reserves exist for issues that might arise from these audits, should these audits be settled, the resulting tax effect could impact the tax provision and cash flows in 2020 or future periods. Revenue and Operating Income by Segment The Company manages and reports the following segments: Banking - We offer solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM and payment processing hardware and software; cash management and video banking software and customer-facing digital banking services; and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. Retail - We offer solutions to customers in the retail industry designed to improve selling productivity and checkout processes as well as increase service levels. The solutions offered serve the following customer markets in the retail industry: Food, Drug and Mass Merchandisers; Department and Specialty Retailers; Convenience and Fuel Retailers, and Small and Medium Retailers. These solutions primarily include retail-oriented technologies, such as point of sale terminals and point of sale software; a retail software platform with a comprehensive suite of retail software applications; innovative self-service kiosks, such as self-checkout; as well as bar-code scanners. We also offer installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. 47 Table of Contents Hospitality - We offer solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, serving businesses in the following markets: Quick Service Restaurants, Table Service Restaurants, Small and Medium Restaurants and Travel and Entertainment venues. Our solutions include point of sale hardware and software solutions, installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. Other - This category includes telecommunications and technology solutions where we offer maintenance as well as managed and professional services for third-party hardware provided to select manufacturers who value and leverage our global service capability. Each of these segments derives its revenue by selling in the geographies in which NCR operates. Segments are measured for profitability by the Companys chief operating decision maker based on revenue and segment operating income. For purposes of discussing our operating results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain non-operational items from segment operating income, consistent with the manner by which management reviews each segment, evaluates performance, and reports our segment results under GAAP. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by NCR management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 2, Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In the segment discussions below, we have disclosed the impact of foreign currency fluctuations as it relates to our segment revenue. Banking The following table shows the Banking revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2020 2019 Revenue $ 763 $ 758 Operating income $ 103 $ 95 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 13.5 % 12.5 % In the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 , revenue increased 1% due to growth in software and services revenue partially offset by an 8% decline in ATM revenue. The ATM revenue decline was mainly the result of COVID-19 border closures and logistical delays. Additionally, the revenue growth was mainly driven by strength in the Americas partially offset by declines in Europe. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 2% on the revenue comparison. Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The increase in operating income was primarily due to the favorable mix of revenue, both by product and geography. Retail The following table shows the Retail revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2020 2019 Revenue $ 472 $ 511 Operating income $ 5 $ 26 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 1.1 % 5.1 % In the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 , revenue decreased 8% due to a decline in hardware revenue driven by a large customer roll-out in the prior year. Additionally, we experienced delays from the COVID-19 pandemic and the Nashville outage. This decline was partially offset by an increase in software and services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily due to the decline in hardware volume, investment in services as well as higher planned expenses, mainly from the acquisition of Zynstra, Ltd. completed in 2019. 48 Table of Contents Hospitality The following table shows the Hospitality revenue and operating loss for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2020 2019 Revenue $ 169 $ 193 Operating income (loss) $ (9 ) $ 16 Operating income as a percentage of revenue (5.3 )% 8.3 % In the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 , revenue decreased 12% mainly due to the decline in hardware revenue. This decline was largely attributable to the Nashville outage and the COVID-19 pandemic. The revenue decrease was mainly driven by North America. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have an impact on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2019 driven by the reduction in revenue and higher planned expenses from strategic acquisitions completed in 2019 as well as higher accounts receivable reserves due to increased risk from COVID-19 uncertainties. Other The following table shows the Other revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2020 2019 Revenue $ 99 $ 74 Operating income $ 5 $ 10 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 5.1 % 13.5 % In the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to March 31, 2019 , revenue increased 34% due to an increase in hardware and hardware maintenance revenue in North America and APJ. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have an impact on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to March 31, 2019 driven by the mix of revenue. 49 Table of Contents Continuing Impacts of COVID-19 While it is difficult to project how deep the pandemic will be and how long it will last, we do expect it will negatively impact our business for the remainder of 2020. We expect our Hospitality and Retail segments to be the most impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, but do expect our Banking segment will also experience negative impacts. Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $61 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to cash used in operating activities of $16 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due to working capital improvements. NCRs management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations, less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, less additions to capitalized software, plus discretionary pension contributions and settlements. We believe free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flows from the Companys continuing and discontinued operations to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, repurchases of NCR stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP, and therefore NCRs definition may differ from other companies definitions of this measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below reconciles net cash provided by (used in) operating activities to NCRs non-GAAP measure of free cash flow for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2020 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 61 $ (16 ) Expenditures for property, plant and equipment (10 ) (22 ) Additions to capitalized software (69 ) (43 ) Net cash used in discontinued operations 3 (6 ) Free cash use (non-GAAP) $ (15 ) $ (87 ) The decrease in expenditures for property, plant and equipment is primarily due to strategic focus to reduce spending in order to increase investment in our capitalized software for the investment in our strategic growth platforms. Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities primarily include business acquisitions, divestitures and investments as well as proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , the payments for business combinations was $26 million , mainly for the remaining consideration paid related to the acquisition of Zynstra Ltd. completed in 2019. Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from employee stock plans, repurchases of NCR common stock and borrowings and repayments of credit facilities and notes. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 , we repurchased a total of $41 million of our common stock. There were no repurchases of our common stock completed during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , proceeds from stock employee plans of $3 million and $4 million , respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , we paid $24 million and $13 million , respectively, of tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested. Long Term Borrowings On August 28, 2019, we amended and restated our senior secured credit facility and refinanced the term loan facility and revolving credit facility thereunder. The senior secured credit facility now consists of a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $750 million , of which $746 million was outstanding as of March 31, 2020 . Additionally, the senior secured credit facility provides for a revolving credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion , of which $1.07 billion was outstanding as of March 31, 2020 , subject to certain covenant limitations. Additionally, the revolving credit facility has up to $400 million available to certain foreign subsidiaries. Loans under the revolving credit facility are available in U.S. 50 Table of Contents Dollars, Euros and Pound Sterling. The revolving credit facility also allows a portion of the availability to be used for letters of credit, and as of March 31, 2020 , there were $28 million letters of credit outstanding. As of December 31, 2019 , the outstanding principal balance of the term loan facility was $748 million and the outstanding balance on the revolving facility was $265 million . As of March 31, 2020 , we had outstanding $500 million in aggregate principle balance of 5.750% senior unsecured notes due in 2027, $500 million in aggregate principle balance of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due in 2029, $700 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $600 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2022. Our revolving trade receivables securitization facility provides the Company with up to $300 million in funding based on the availability of eligible receivables and other customary factors and conditions. As of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 , the Company had $293 million and $270 million , respectively, outstanding under the facility. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On December 4, 2015, NCR issued 820,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to certain entities affiliated with the Blackstone Group L.P. for an aggregate purchase price of $820 million , or $1,000 per share, pursuant to an Investment Agreement between the Company and Blackstone, dated November 11, 2015. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company incurred direct and incremental expenses of $26 million . These direct and incremental expenses reduced the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and will be accreted through retained earnings as a deemed dividend from the date of issuance through the first possible known redemption date, March 16, 2024. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. Under the Investment Agreement, Blackstone agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or any shares of common stock issued upon conversion thereof) without the Companys consent until June 4, 2017. In March 2017, we provided Blackstone with an early release from this lock-up, allowing Blackstone to sell approximately 49% of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and in return, Blackstone agreed to amend the Investment Agreement to extend the lock-up on the remaining 51% of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for six months until December 1, 2017. In connection with the early release of the lock-up, Blackstone offered for sale 342,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in an underwritten public offering. In addition, Blackstone converted 90,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock and we repurchased those shares of common stock for $48.47 per share. The underwritten offering and the stock repurchase were consummated on March 17, 2017. On September 18, 2019, NCR entered into an agreement to repurchase and convert the outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Blackstone, which was 512,221 shares as of the date of the transaction. NCR repurchased 237,673 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for total cash consideration of $302 million . The remaining shares of Blackstone's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, including accrued dividends, were converted to approximately 9.16 million shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share. This transaction retires all of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Blackstone. Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, dividends are payable in cash or in-kind at the option of the Company. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, the Company paid cash dividends of $6 million . During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company paid dividends-in-kind of $12 million . The remaining Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holders at any time into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share, or a conversion rate of 33.333 shares of common stock per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 , the maximum number of common shares that could be required to be issued upon conversion of the outstanding shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was 13.2 million and 13.3 million , respectively. Employee Benefit Plans In 2020 , we expect to make contributions of $21 million to our international pension plans, $50 million to our postemployment plan and $2 million to our postretirement plan. For additional information, refer to Note 7, Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash and Cash Equivalents Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 were $275 million and $475 million , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. 51 Table of Contents Summary As of March 31, 2020 , our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.21 billion and our total debt was $4.42 billion . In order to build a stronger liquidity position, we have taken steps to improve working capital and are addressing certain business impacts with spending cuts. We have taken several steps to build our cash reserve to improve our financial liquidity and flexibility and provide a cushion to help weather the impacts of the pandemic. These steps include suspending our share repurchase programs, limiting our mergers and acquisition activity, reducing salary for members of our leadership team and certain salaried employees, reducing our planned capital expenditures, eliminating most contractors, curtailing travel, freezing merit increases and hiring. Additionally, on March 24, 2020, we drew the remaining available funds of $630 million on our five-year, $1.1 billion revolving credit facility and on April 13, 2020, we issued $400 million senior unsecured notes. The COVID-19 pandemic is complex and rapidly evolving, and the ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the pandemic as well as any additional governmental and public actions taken in response. There can be no assurance that the measures we have taken will offset the negative impact of COVID-19. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity based on our current cash position, cash flows from operations and existing financing to meet our required pension, postemployment, and postretirement plan contributions, remediation and other payments related to the environmental matters, debt servicing obligations, and our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments There have been no significant changes in our contractual and other commercial obligations as described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by SEC Regulation S-K Item 303 (a) (4) (ii). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K and determined that there were no changes to our critical accounting policies or our estimates associated with those policies in the three months ended March 31, 2020 . New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for new accounting pronouncements. Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act), including statements containing the words expect, anticipate, outlook, intend, plan, believe, will, should, would, could, designed, and words of similar meaning, as well as other words or expressions referencing future events, conditions or circumstances. We intend these forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions for forward-looking statements contained in the Act. Statements that describe or relate to NCRs plans, goals, intentions, strategies, or financial outlook, and statements that do not relate to historical or current fact, are examples of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate, and involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are out of NCRs control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and there are a number of important factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including those factors relating to: the impact of the novel strain of the coronavirus identified in late 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic on our workforce, operations and financial results, including the impact on our customers businesses; manufacturing disruptions, including those caused by or related to outsourced manufacturing or disruptions in our supply chain due to the COVID-19 pandemic; strength of demand for the products we offer or will offer in the future consistent with our strategy and its effect on our businesses; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from the imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial services and retail industries, new tax legislation across multiple jurisdictions, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, execution of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices; the transformation of our business and shift to 52 Table of Contents increased software and services revenue, as well as recurring revenue; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete in the technology industry; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; the impact of the March 2020 tornadoes in the greater Nashville area on an NCR Global Fulfillment Center in Mt. Juliet, Tennessee operated by a third party, including the sufficiency and effectiveness of our or our third-party logistics partners business continuity plans, the adequacy of our property damage and business interruption insurance coverage and our ability to recover under the applicable policies; defects or errors in our products; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; the historical seasonality of our sales; tax rates and tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction savings initiatives; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligations; reliance on third party suppliers; the impact of the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in certain geographical markets; development and protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; uncertainties or delays associated with the transition of key business leaders; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims, and other matters across various jurisdictions. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in the Companys filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Information About NCR NCR encourages investors to visit its web site ( http://www.ncr.com ), which is updated regularly with financial and other important information about NCR. The contents of the Companys web site are not incorporated into this quarterly report or the Companys other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 53 Table of Contents