Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our amended and restated Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2024 (the 2024 Form 10-K/A). The section of this Form 10-Q titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See the sections of the Form 10-Q titled Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the quarter as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations by comparing the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025 to the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2024. Financial condition, liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at September 30, 2025. Revision. In connection with the preparation of our second and third quarter 2025 financial statements, we identified misstatements in our previously-issued financial statements. Although not materially impacting any previously-reported periods, the misstatements resulted in immaterial misstatements in our historical financial statements and the revision of interim and annual periods in 2023 and 2024 and the first and second quarters of 2025. The figures in this MD&A have been similarly revised, where applicable, to reflect the impact of such corrections. Refer to Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, and Note 15, Revisions of Previously Issued Financial Statements, in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report for additional information. OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Atleos is an industry-leading financial technology company providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base including financial institutions, merchants, manufacturers, retailers and consumers. Self-directed banking is a rapidly growing, secular trend that allows banking customers to transact seamlessly between various channels all for the same transaction. Our comprehensive solutions enable the acceleration of self-directed banking through ATM and interactive teller machine technology, including software, services, hardware and our proprietary Allpoint network. While we provide all our solutions on a modular basis, we have also assembled these capabilities into a turnkey, end-to-end platform which we have branded ATM as a Service (ATMaaS). Our segments consist of the following: Self-Service Banking - Offers solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer ATMaaS to manage and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that includes back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Network - Provides a cost-effective way for financial institutions, financial technology companies (fintechs), neobanks, and retailers to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functional financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our ATM network, including our proprietary Allpoint network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders, as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via ReadyCode (formerly 36 Table of Contents Pay360). We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions, ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses, and our LibertyX solution gives consumers the ability to buy and sell Bitcoin. Telecommunications & Technology - Offers managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. Our customers rely on us as a strategic partner to help them reduce complexity, improve cost efficiency, and enable global geographical reach. We deliver expert professional, field, and remote services for modern network technologies including Software-Defined Wide Area Networking, Network Functions Virtualization, Wireless Local Area Networks, Optical Networking, and Edge Networks. SPIN-OFF FROM NCR On October 16, 2023, NCR Corporation (now known as NCR Voyix Corporation or Voyix, and referred to as NCR when discussing periods prior to the Separation), completed a spin-off to NCR shareholders of its self-service banking, network, and telecommunications and technology businesses (the Spin-off or Separation). Concurrent with the Spin-off, we became a stand alone publicly-traded company and our financial statements are now presented on a consolidated basis. In connection with the Spin-off, we incurred and expect to incur in the future, one-time separation costs, which include one-time and non-recurring expenses associated with the Spin-off and stand up of functions required to operate as a stand-alone public entity. These non-recurring costs primarily relate to system implementation costs, business and facilities separation, applicable employee related costs, development of our brand and other matters. We expect the separation-related costs will continue through at least fiscal year 2025. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement and various other agreements with Voyix. These agreements provide a framework for our relationship with Voyix and govern various interim and ongoing relationships between Atleos and Voyix. These agreements with Voyix are described in the section of the Information Statement titled Certain Relationships and Related Transactions-Agreements with NCR. Following the Separation, certain functions continue to be provided by or for Voyix under the Transition Services Agreements or are being performed using our own resources or third-party service providers. Additionally, certain maintenance services, product resale and other support services and supply chain operations will continue to be provided by or to Voyix under the Commercial Agreements. On August 6, 2024, Voyix announced its intention to move the manufacturing services to another party and to further reduce the maintenance services that are being performed under the Commercial Agreements. Manufacturing services provided to Voyix were completed in the fourth quarter of 2024. STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS We expect to be a cash-generative business positioned to focus on delivering ATMaaS to a large, installed customer base across banks and retailers. We intend to build on our leadership in self-service banking and ATM networks to meet global demand for ATM access and leverage new ATM transaction types, including digital currency solutions, to drive market growth. We also expect to continue shifting to a highly recurring revenue model to drive stable cash flows and returns to stockholders. We are continuing our transition to service and software-led solutions. Today, our cloud-based software platform includes microservices and application programming interfaces (APIs) that integrate with our customers systems and our ATMaaS solutions, bringing together all our capabilities and competencies to power the technology to run our customers self-directed banking networks. This is enabling us to drive growth in recurring revenues. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, to add software, services and other capabilities that complement or enhance our existing portfolio. We intend to continue pursuing opportunities to win new customers, expand our footprint and drive additional transactions and foot traffic for our customers. We also plan to continue improving our execution to drive solid returns and transform our business, enhancing value for all stockholders. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, Atleos and our customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. We maintain cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures for handling and responding to cybersecurity events, which we regularly evaluate for updates. For additional information on our cybersecurity risk management, strategy, and governance, see Item 1C. Cybersecurity, in our 2024 Form 10-K/A. 37 Table of Contents As of the date of this report, we have not identified any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected or are reasonably anticipated to have a material effect on us. Although we have not experienced cybersecurity incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, we have experienced cyberattacks in the past, which we believe have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures that we have put in place. For a detailed discussion of our cybersecurity related risks, see Item 1A. Risk FactorsData protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could adversely impact our business in our 2024 Form 10-K/A. Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures such as higher interest rates, increased logistics costs, and foreign currency fluctuations as a result of geopolitical challenges, including those due to various conflicts in and around the Red Sea region. We are navigating through these challenges with a sharp focus on, and goal of, safeguarding our employees, helping our customers and managing impacts to the business. Despite the rapidly changing environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. In the first quarter of 2025, the United States introduced trade policy actions that have increased or proposed to increase import tariffs across a wide range of countries at various rates. Multiple countries responded with reciprocal tariffs and other actions, and the U.S. government continues to pursue various negotiations related to trade policy. We currently import finished goods and service parts to the United States from a number of countries that are impacted by the tariff rate changes. We continue to actively monitor tariff developments, analyze their potential impact and review actions that can be taken to moderate and/or minimize their effects; however, the trade policies and responses and their related impacts are rapidly evolving, and it is likely that additional developments will occur in the coming months. The impact of these trade policy actions on our performance was immaterial in the third quarter and year-to-date periods. Changing U.S. immigration policy has negatively impacted our Network segment as there have been fewer transactions with prepaid payroll cards and dynamic currency conversion transactions. Global macroeconomic conditions have caused a degree of uncertainty in the investor community and among bank customers, and could significantly impact the national, regional and local banking industry and the global business environment in which we operate. If there is a severe or prolonged economic downturn, it could result in a variety of risks to our business, including driving banking customers to curtail spending, which would negatively impact our sales and business. We expect the factors discussed above may continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the duration and severity of these geopolitical and macroeconomic pressures and any governmental and public actions taken in response. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. For further information on the risks posed to our business from geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, in our 2024 Form 10-K/A, including the risk factors titled, A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences, and Tariffs and other trade measures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. For further information on exposures to interest rate and foreign currency exchange risk, see Item 3,