Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) Overview The following were the significant events for the first quarter of 2015 , each of which is discussed more fully in later sections of this MD&A: Results were negatively impacted by higher than expected foreign currency headwinds; Revenue decreased approximately 3% from the prior year period, including unfavorable foreign currency impacts of approximately 6% ; and We continued to experience growth in software-related revenue (which we measure by combining software license and maintenance revenue, cloud revenue and professional services revenue associated with software delivery). We have established a focused and consistent business strategy targeted at revenue growth, gross margin expansion, improved customer loyalty and employee engagement. To execute this strategy, in 2015 we remain focused on three key imperatives or initiatives that align with our financial objectives: deliver disruptive innovation; migrate our revenue to higher margin software and recurring services revenue; and develop a high performing sales force backed by leading services delivery that better leverages the innovation we are bringing to the market. This strategy, which guided our efforts in the first quarter of 2015 , is summarized in more detail below: Gain profitable share - We have been working to shift our business model to focus on growth of higher margin software and services revenue by focusing our research and development efforts, changing and educating our sales force and executing transformative acquisitions in each of our core divisions. At the same time, we are continuing our effort to optimize our investments in demand creation to increase NCRs market share in areas with the greatest potential for profitable growth, which include opportunities in self-service technologies with our core financial services, retail, and hospitality customers. We focus on expanding our presence in our core industries, while seeking additional growth by: penetrating market adjacencies in single and multi-channel self-service segments; expanding and strengthening our geographic presence and sales coverage across customer tiers through use of the indirect channel; and leveraging NCR Services and consumables solutions to grow our share of customer revenue, improve customer retention, and deliver increased value to our customers. Enhancing the customer experience - We are committed to providing a customer experience to drive loyalty, focusing on product and software solutions based on the needs of our customers, a sales force enabled with the consultative selling model to better leverage the innovative solutions we are bringing to market, and sales and support service teams focused on delivery and customer interactions. We continue to rely on the Customer Loyalty Survey, among other metrics, to measure our current state and set a course for our future state where we aim to continuously improve with solution innovations as well as through the execution of our service delivery programs. Enhance our global service capability - We continue to identify and execute various initiatives to enhance our global service capability. We also have focused on improving our service positioning, increasing customer service attach rates for our products and improving profitability in our services business. Our service capability can provide us with a competitive advantage in winning customers and it provides NCR with an attractive and stable revenue source. Build the lowest cost structure in our industry - We strive to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our core functions and the productivity of our employees through our continuous improvement initiatives. In 2014, we began a comprehensive restructuring plan to reallocate resources to higher-growth, higher-margin opportunities by proactively end-of-lifeing older commodity hardware product lines, moving lower productivity services to new centers of excellence, rationalizing our hardware and software product lines and reducing layers of management and organizing internally around a division model. We have continued to execute this plan in 2015, and expect it to contribute meaningful savings and gains in productivity and efficiency. Expand into emerging growth industry segments - We are focused on broadening the scope of our self-service solutions from our existing customers to expand these solution offerings to customers in newer industry-vertical markets including telecommunications and technology as well as travel and small business. We expect to grow our business in these industries through integrated service offerings in addition to targeted acquisitions and strategic partnerships. 35 Table of Contents Innovation of our people - We are committed to solution innovation across all customer industries. Our focus on innovation has been enabled by closer collaboration between NCR Services and our divisions, and the movement of our software development resources directly into our core divisions. Innovation is also driven through investments in training and developing our employees by taking advantage of our world-class training centers. We expect that these steps and investments will accelerate the delivery of innovative solutions focused on the needs of our customers and changes in consumer behavior. Pursue strategic acquisitions that promote growth and improve gross margin - We have actively explored, and will continue selectively to explore, potential acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of business to identify acquisitions that can accelerate the growth of our business and improve our gross margin mix, with a particular focus on software-oriented transactions. We may fund acquisitions through either equity or debt, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility. We plan to continue to manage our costs effectively, including through our restructuring program, and balance our investments in areas that generate high returns. Potentially significant risks to the execution of our initiatives include continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar resulting in unfavorable foreign currency impacts, the global economic and credit environment and its effect on capital spending by our customers, market conditions and investment trends in the retail industry, competition that can drive further price erosion and potential loss of market share, difficulties associated with introduction of products in new self-service markets, market adoption of our products by customers, management and servicing of our existing indebtedness, and integration of previously completed acquisitions. Results from Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 The following table shows our results for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Revenue $1,476 $1,518 Gross margin $390 $416 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 26.4% 27.4% Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $225 $245 Research and development expenses 55 63 Restructuring-related charges 15 Income from operations $95 $108 The following table shows our revenues and gross margins from products and services for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Product revenue $604 $634 Cost of products 483 476 Product gross margin $121 $158 Product gross margin as a percentage of revenue 20.0% 24.9% Services revenue $872 $884 Cost of services 603 626 Services gross margin $269 $258 Services gross margin as a percentage of revenue 30.8% 29.2% The following table shows our revenues by theater for the three months ended March 31 : 36 Table of Contents In millions 2015 % of Total 2014 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency Americas $799 54% $780 51% 2% 4% Europe 328 22% 365 24% (10)% 7% Asia Middle East Africa (AMEA) 349 24% 373 25% (6)% (1)% Consolidated revenue $1,476 100% $1,518 100% (3)% 3% Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 , revenue decreased 3% due primarily to declines in our retail solutions operating segment. Foreign currency fluctuations unfavorably impacted the revenue comparison by 6% . Our product revenue decreased 5% and our services revenue decreased 1% year-over-year. The decrease in our product revenue was due to declines in the Retail Solutions and Hospitality operating segments in all theaters, declines in the Financial Services operating segment in the Europe and AMEA theaters and declines in the Emerging Industries operating segment in the AMEA theater partially offset by growth in the Financial Services operating segment in the Americas theater. The decrease in our services revenue was attributable to decreases in our professional and installation services and maintenance services. Services revenue decreased in the retail solutions operating segment in all theaters, and decreased in the Financial Services operating segment in the Europe theater, partially offset by growth in the Financial Services operating segment in the Americas and AMEA theaters, growth in the Hospitality operating segment in the Americas theater, and growth in the Emerging Industries segment in the Americas and Europe theaters. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 26.4% compared to 27.4% in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Product gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 20.0% compared to 24.9% in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Product gross margin declined primarily due to an unfavorable mix of revenue. Services gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 30.8% compared to 29.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Services gross margin increased due to a favorable mix of revenues, including an increase in cloud revenues. Effects of Pension, Postemployment, and Postretirement Benefit Plans NCR's income from continuing operations for the three months ended March 31 was impacted by certain employee benefit plans as shown below: In millions 2015 2014 Pension expense (benefit) $ $(1) Postemployment expense 2 5 Postretirement benefit (4) (4) Total expense (benefit) $(2) $ As of December 31, 2014 , the U.K. London pension plan was overfunded by approximately $420 million. The plan is expected to fully transfer to an insurer in 2015 or early 2016 resulting in approximately $420 million of pension expense in the period of settlement. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $225 million , or 15.2% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to $245 million , or 16.1% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2015 included $16 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles, $2 million of acquisition-related costs and $1 million of OFAC and FCPA related legal costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2014 included $14 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles, $14 million of acquisition-related costs, and $1 million of OFAC and FCPA related legal costs. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenue. 37 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were $55 million , or 3.7% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to $63 million , or 4.2% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease is in line with management expectations due to planned spending reductions as compared to the prior year. Restructuring-Related Charges In the three months ended March 31, 2015 , the Company recorded restructuring-related charges of $15 million related to the restructuring program announced in July 2014. The charges consist of other exit costs of approximately $1 million and asset-related charges of approximately $14 million. Interest and Other Expense Items Interest expense was $44 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $43 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Other expense, net was $7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 . Other expense, net in both periods primarily included losses from foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments, foreign currency fluctuations, and bank fees. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim (quarterly) periods are based on an estimated annual effective income tax rate calculated separately from the effect of significant, infrequent or unusual items. Income tax expense was $2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease in income tax expense was primarily driven by the decrease in earnings, partially offset by a reduction in discrete benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2015 . NCR is subject to numerous federal, state and foreign tax audits. While NCR believes that appropriate reserves exist for issues that might arise from these audits, should these audits be settled, the resulting tax effect could impact the tax provision and cash flows in future periods. Revenue and Operating Income by Segment The Company manages and reports its businesses in the following four segments: Financial Services - We offer solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM and payment processing hardware and software; cash management and video banking software and customer-facing digital banking services; and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer a complete line of printer consumables. Retail Solutions - We offer solutions to customers in the retail industry designed to improve selling productivity and checkout processes as well as increase service levels. These solutions primarily include retail-oriented technologies, such as point of sale terminals and point of sale software; an omni-channel retail software platform with a comprehensive suite of retail software applications; innovative self-service kiosks, such as self-checkout; as well as bar-code scanners. We also offer installation, maintenance, managed and professional services and a complete line of printer consumables. Hospitality - We offer technology solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, serving businesses that range from a single store or restaurant to global chains and sports and entertainment venues. Our solutions include point of sale hardware and software solutions, installation, maintenance, managed and professional services and a complete line of printer consumables. Emerging Industries - We offer maintenance as well as managed and professional services for third-party computer hardware provided to select manufacturers, primarily in the telecommunications industry, who value and leverage our global service capability. Also included in the Emerging Industries segment are solutions designed to enhance the customer experience for the travel industry, such as self-service kiosks, and the small business industry, such as an all-in-one point of sale solution. Additionally, we offer installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. Each of these segments derives its revenues by selling products and services in the sales theaters in which NCR operates. Segments are measured for profitability by the Companys chief operating decision maker based on revenue and segment operating income. For purposes of discussing our operating results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain items (described below) from segment operating income, consistent with the manner by which management reviews each segment, evaluates performance, and reports our segment results under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (otherwise known as GAAP). This 38 Table of Contents format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by NCR management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. The effect of pension expense and other significant, non-recurring items on segment operating income have been excluded from the operating income for each reporting segment presented below. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 13, Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In the segment discussions below, we have disclosed the impact of foreign currency fluctuations as it relates to our segment revenue due to its significance during the quarter. Financial Services Segment The following table presents the Financial Services revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Revenue $798 $794 Operating income $105 $103 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 13.2% 13.0% Financial Services revenue increased 1% in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The increase was driven by growth in product sales in the Americas theater and growth in services revenue in the Americas and AMEA theaters, partially offset by declines in product sales in the Europe and AMEA theaters and declines in services revenue in the Europe theater. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact on the revenue comparison of 8% . Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The increase in operating income was driven by a higher mix of omni-channel solutions. Retail Solutions Segment The following table presents the Retail Solutions revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Revenue $445 $490 Operating income $16 $36 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 3.6% 7.3% Retail Solutions revenue decreased 9% in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease was driven by declines in product sales and services revenue in all theaters. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact on the revenue comparison of 5% . Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease in operating income was primarily due to lower volume and a less favorable mix of software-related revenue. Hospitality Segment The following table presents the Hospitality revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Revenue $148 $149 Operating income $18 $12 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 12.2% 8.1% 39 Table of Contents Hospitality revenue decreased 1% in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The decrease was driven by declines in product sales in all theaters, partially offset by growth in services revenue in the Americas theater. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact on the revenue comparison of 2% . Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due to a higher mix of software-related revenue, including cloud revenue. Emerging Industries Segment The following table presents the Emerging Industries revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Revenue $85 $85 Operating income $7 $4 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 8.2% 4.7% The Emerging Industries segment revenue remained consistent in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 . The Emerging Industries segment results include higher services revenue in the Americas and Europe theaters, offset by declines in product sales in the AMEA theater. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact on the revenue comparison of 8% . Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2014 due to higher services margins. Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $79 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $31 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 . NCRs management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations, less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, less additions to capitalized software, plus discretionary pension contributions and settlements. We believe free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flows from the Companys continuing and discontinued operations to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, repurchase of NCR stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP, and therefore NCRs definition may differ from other companies definitions of this measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to NCRs non-GAAP measure of free cash flow for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $79 $31 Less: Expenditures for property, plant and equipment (13) (32) Less: Additions to capitalized software (38) (34) Net cash used in discontinued operations (4) (16) Free cash flow (used) (non-GAAP) $24 $(51) The decrease in expenditures for property, plant and equipment was due to planned spending reductions as compared to the prior year. The change in cash flows from discontinued operations was due to reduced spending related to the Fox River environmental matter. 40 Table of Contents Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities primarily include business acquisitions, divestitures and investments as well as proceeds from the sales of property, plant and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2014 , we completed the acquisition of Digital Insight for $1.64 billion , net of cash acquired. Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from employee stock plans, repurchase of NCR common stock and borrowings and repayments of credit facilities and notes. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , proceeds from employee stock plans were $6 million and $5 million , respectively. During each of the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , we paid $9 million and $22 million , respectively, of tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested. As of March 31, 2015 , our senior secured credit facility consisted of a term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.35 billion , and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $850 million. The revolving credit facility also allows a portion of the availability to be used for outstanding letters of credit, and as of March 31, 2015 , there were no outstanding letters of credit. As of March 31, 2015 , the outstanding principal balance of the term loan facility was $1.31 billion and the outstanding balance on the revolving facility was zero . As of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we had outstanding $700 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due 2023, $600 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due 2022, $500 million in aggregate principal balance of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2021 and $400 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due 2021. In November 2014, we entered into a revolving trade receivables securitization facility, which provides the Company with up to $200 million in funding based on the availability of eligible receivables and other customary factors and conditions. As of March 31, 2015 , the Company had $71 million outstanding under the facility. See Note 5, "Debt Obligations," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the senior secured credit facility, the senior unsecured notes and the trade receivables securitization facility. In 2015 , we expect to make contributions of $35 million to the international pension plans, $80 million to the postemployment plan and $4 million to the postretirement plan. For additional information, refer to Note 8, Employee Benefit Plans, of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In July 2014, we announced a restructuring plan to strategically reallocate resources so that we can focus on higher-growth, higher-margin opportunities in the software-driven consumer transaction technologies industry. Refer to Note 2, "Restructuring Plan," of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on our restructuring plan. As a result of this plan, we expect to incur a total charge of approximately $200 million to $225 million and total cash payments of $100 million to $115 million through 2015. These estimates include severance, inventory-related, asset-related and other exit charges. In the first quarter of 2015 , we incurred a total charge of approximately $16 million and cash payments of $16 million . We expect to achieve annual savings of approximately $105 million in 2016. In 2015 , NCR expects to make approximately $35 million of remediation and other payments related to the Fox River and Kalamazoo environmental matters, net of the payment obligations of its co-obligors; the amount does not include an estimate for payments to be received from insurers or indemnification parties. For additional information, refer to Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 were $424 million and $458 million , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States are distributed to the United States in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional United States income taxes (subject to an adjustment for foreign tax credits) and foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. As of March 31, 2015 , our cash and cash equivalents totaled $462 million and our total debt was $3.62 billion . Our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was approximately $850 million at March 31, 2015 and under our trade receivables securitization facility was $129 million at March 31, 2015 . Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of the Companys 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item IA of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If we are unable to 41 Table of Contents generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of our credit facilities or senior unsecured notes, we may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity based on our current cash position, cash flows from operations and existing financing to meet our required pension, postemployment, and postretirement plan contributions, remediation payments related to the Fox River environmental matter, debt servicing obligations, payments related to the restructuring plan, and our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments There have been no significant changes in our contractual and other commercial obligations as described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The Companys uncertain tax positions are not expected to have a significant impact on liquidity or sources and uses of capital resources. Our product warranties are discussed in Note 9, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Disclosure Pursuant to Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Securities Exchange Act. Pursuant to Section 13(r)(1)(D)(iii) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, we note that, during the period from January 1, 2015 through March 31, 2015 , we maintained a bank account and guarantees at the Commercial Bank of Syria (CBS), which was designated as a Specially Designated National pursuant to Executive Order 13382 (EO 13382) on August 10, 2011. This bank account and the guarantees at CBS were maintained in the normal course of business prior to the listing of CBS pursuant to EO 13382. We note that the last known account balance as of March 31, 2015 was approximately $4,211. The guarantees did not generate any revenue or profits for the Company. Pursuant to a license granted to the Company by the Office of Foreign Asset Controls (OFAC) on January 3, 2013, and subsequent licenses granted on April 29, 2013, July 12, 2013, February 28, 2014, and November 12, 2014, the Company has been winding down its past operations in Syria. In connection with these efforts, the Company has also received licenses from OFAC to close the CBS account and terminate any guarantees. Following the closure of the account and termination of the guarantees, the Company does not intend to engage in any further business activities with CBS. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management has reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our 2014 Form 10-K and determined that there were no changes to our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for new accounting pronouncements. Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements use words such as expect, anticipate, outlook, intend, believe, will, should, would, could and words of similar meaning. Statements that describe or relate to NCRs plans, goals, intentions, strategies or financial outlook, and statements that do not relate to historical or current fact, are examples of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate, and involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are out of NCR's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and there are a number of important factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including those factors relating to: domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, market conditions and investment trends in the retail industry; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; foreign currency fluctuations; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete and in the information technology industry; the transformation of our business model and our ability to sell higher-margin software and services; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; defects or errors in our products; manufacturing disruptions; the historical seasonality of our sales; compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances, including the acquisition of Digital Insight; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligation; the success of our ongoing restructuring plan; tax rates; reliance on third party suppliers; development and protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims and other matters across various jurisdictions. 42 Table of Contents Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Information About NCR NCR encourages investors to visit its web site ( http://www.ncr.com ) which is updated regularly with financial and other important information about NCR. The contents of the Companys web site are not incorporated into this quarterly report or the Companys other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.