Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the 2023 Form 10-K). The section of this Form 10-Q titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See the sections of the Form 10-Q titled Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the quarter as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations by comparing the results for the three months ended March 31, 2024 to the results for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Financial condition, liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at March 31, 2024. OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Atleos is an industry-leading financial technology company providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base including financial institutions, merchants, manufacturers, retailers and consumers. Self-directed banking is a rapidly growing, secular trend that allows banking customers to transact seamlessly between various channels all for the same transaction. Our comprehensive solutions enable the acceleration of self-directed banking through ATM and interactive teller machine (ITM) technology, including software, services, hardware and our proprietary Allpoint network. While we provide all our solutions on a modular basis, we have also assembled these capabilities into a turnkey, end-to-end platform which we have branded ATM as a Service. Atleos operates two leading business segments focused on facilitating self-service banking through ATMs supported by a shared set of tools, systems and platforms. In addition, we operate a Telecommunications and Technology (T&T) segment offering managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. We manage our operations in the following segments: Self-Service Banking, Network, and T&T. Self-Service Banking - Offers solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer solutions to manage and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that include back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Network - Provides a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, neobanks, and retailers to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our ATM network, including our proprietary Allpoint network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via ReadyCode (formerly Pay360). We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions, ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses, and our LibertyX business gives consumers the ability to buy and sell Bitcoin. 32 Table of Contents T&T - Offers managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. Our customers rely on us as a strategic partner to help them reduce complexity, improve cost efficiency, and enable global geographical reach. We deliver expert professional, field, and remote services for modern network technologies including Software-Defined Wide Area Networking, Network Functions Virtualization, Wireless Local Area Networks, Optical Networking, and Edge Networks. SPIN-OFF FROM NCR On October 16, 2023, NCR Corporation (now known as NCR Voyix Corporation or Voyix, and referred to as NCR prior to the Separation), completed a Spin-off to NCR shareholders of its self-service banking, network, and telecommunications and technology businesses (the Spin-off or Separation). Concurrent with the Spin-off, the Company became a standalone publicly traded company and its financial statements are now presented on a consolidated basis. Prior to the Separation, the Companys historical combined financial statements were prepared on a standalone basis and were derived from NCRs consolidated financial statements and accounting records. The financial statements for all periods presented, including the historical results of the Company prior to October 16, 2023, are now referred to as Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, and have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). In connection with the Spin-off, we have incurred and expect to incur in the future one-time separation costs, which include one-time and non-recurring expenses associated with the Spin-off and stand up of functions required to operate as a stand-alone public entity. These non-recurring costs primarily relate to system implementation costs, business and facilities separation, applicable employee related costs, development of our brand and other matters. We expect the separation-related costs will continue through at least fiscal year 2024. In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement and various other agreements with Voyix. These agreements provide a framework for our relationship with Voyix and govern various interim and ongoing relationships between Atleos and Voyix. These agreements with Voyix are described in the section of the Information Statement titled Certain Relationships and Related Transactions-Agreements with NCR. Following the Separation, certain functions continue to be provided by or for Voyix under the Transition Services Agreements or are being performed using Atleos own resources or third-party service providers. Additionally, certain maintenance services, manufacturing services, product resale and other support services and supply chain operations will continue to be provided by or to Voyix under the Commercial Agreements. STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS Atleos is expected to be a cash-generative business positioned to focus on delivering ATM as a Service to a large, installed customer base across banks and retailers. We believe it will build on our leadership in self-service banking and ATM networks to meet global demand for ATM access and leverage new ATM transaction types, including digital currency solutions, to drive market growth. Atleos is expected to also continue shifting to a highly recurring revenue model to drive stable cash flow and capital returns to shareholders. We are continuing our transition to software-led solutions. Today, our software platform, which runs in the cloud and includes microservices and application programming interfaces (APIs) that integrate with our customers systems, and our ATM as a Service solutions, bring together all our capabilities and competencies to power the technology to run our customers self-directed banking networks, at the same time allowing us to earn a greater proportion of recurring revenues. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, to add software, services and other capabilities that complement or enhance our existing portfolio. In 2021, we completed the acquisition of Cardtronics plc (Cardtronics) to accelerate our ATM as a Service strategy, adding the Allpoint network to our suite of financial institution and retailer-focused payment technologies. We intend to continue pursuing opportunities to win new customers, expand our footprint and drive more transactions and foot traffic for our customers. We also plan to continue to improve our execution to drive solid returns and to transform our business to enhance value for all shareholders. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, Atleos and its customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. Atleos maintains cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures, which it regularly 33 Table of Contents evaluates for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. For additional information on our cybersecurity risk management, strategy, and governance, see Item 1C, Cybersecurity, in the Companys 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of the date of this report, the Company has not identified any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected or are reasonably anticipated to have a material effect on the organization. Although the Company has not experienced cybersecurity incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the Company has experienced cyberattacks in the past, which the Company believes have thus far been mitigated by preventative, detective, and responsive measures put in place by the Company. For a detailed discussion of the Companys cybersecurity related risks, see Item 1.A Risk FactorsData protection, cybersecurity and data privacy issues could adversely impact our business in the Companys 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K. Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures such as higher interest rates, commodity and energy prices, foreign currency fluctuations, and increased logistics costs as a result of geopolitical challenges, including those due in part to the war between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict between Israel and Hamas. We continue to navigate through these challenges with a sharp focus on and goal of safeguarding our employees, helping our customers and managing impacts on our supply chain. Despite the rapidly changing environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. The bank failures in 2023, in addition to other global macroeconomic conditions, have caused a degree of uncertainty in the investor community and among bank customers, and could significantly impact the national, regional and local banking industry and the global business environment in which Atleos operates. The Company does not believe that the circumstances of these bank failures are indicators of broader issues within the banking system. However, if there is a severe or prolonged economic downturn, it could result in a variety of risks to our business, including driving banking customers to tighten budgets and curtail spending, which would negatively impact our sales and business. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the duration and severity of these geopolitical and macroeconomic pressures and any governmental and public actions taken in response. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. For further information on the risks posed to our business from geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, refer to Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors, of our 2023 Form 10-K, including the risk factor titled, A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. For further information on exposures to interest rate and foreign exchange risk, refer to Item 3,