Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ( MD&A ) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q and our Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (the 2021 Form 10-K). Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the quarter as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying condensed consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 to the results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021. Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at June 30, 2022. OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW NCR Corporation (NCR, the Company, we or us) was originally incorporated in 1884 and is a software- and services-led enterprise technology provider that runs stores, restaurants and self-directed banking for our customers, which includes businesses of all sizes. NCR is a global company that is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. Our software platform, which runs in the cloud and includes microservices and APIs that integrate with our customers' systems, and our NCR-as-a-Service solutions bring together all of the capabilities and competencies of NCR to power the technology to run our customers operations. Our portfolio includes digital first software and services offerings for banking, retailers and restaurants, as well as payments processing and networks, multi-vendor connected device services, automated teller machines (ATMs), self-checkout (SCO), point of sale (POS) terminals and other self-service technologies. We also resell third-party networking products and provide related service offerings in the telecommunications and technology sector. Our solutions are designed to support our transition to becoming a software platform and payments company. Effective January 1, 2022, the Company realigned its reportable segments to correspond with changes to its operating model, management structure and organizational responsibilities. The reportable segments effective January 1, 2022 include: Payments & Network, Digital Banking, Self-Service Banking, Retail, and Hospitality. Payments & Network - We provide a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, and neobanks to reach and serve their customers through our network of automated teller machines ("ATMs") and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our Allpoint retail-based ATM network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via NCRPay360. We also provide ATM branding, management and services to financial institutions and businesses. Digital Banking - NCR Digital Banking helps financial institutions implement their digital-first platform strategy by providing solutions for account opening, account management, transaction processing, imaging, and branch services to enable financial institutions to offer a compelling customer experience. Self-Service Banking - We offer solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. 40 Table of Contents Retail - We offer software-led solutions to customers in the retail industry, leading with digital to connect retail operations end to end to integrate all aspects of a customers operations in indoor and outdoor settings from POS, to payments, inventory management, fraud and loss prevention applications, loyalty and consumer engagement. These solutions include retail-oriented technologies such as comprehensive API-point of sale retail software platforms and applications, hardware terminals, self-service kiosks including self-checkout ("SCO"), payment processing solutions, and bar-code scanners. Hospitality - We offer technology solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, including table-service, quick-service and fast casual restaurants of all sizes, that are designed to improve operational efficiency, increase customer satisfaction, streamline order and transaction processing and reduce operating costs. Our solutions include POS hardware and software solutions, installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. Corporate and Other includes income and expenses related to corporate functions that are not specifically attributable to an individual reportable segment along with any immaterial operating segment(s). Eliminations include revenues from contracts with customers and the related costs that are reported in the Payments & Network segment as well as in the Retail or Hospitality segments, including merchant acquiring services that are monetized via payments. NCRs reputation is founded upon over 137 years of providing quality products, services and solutions to our customers. At the heart of our customer and other business relationships is a commitment to acting responsibly, ethically and with the highest level of integrity. This commitment is reflected in NCRs Code of Conduct, which is available on the Corporate Governance page of our website. SIGNIFICANT THEMES AND EVENTS As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant themes and events for the second quarter of 2022. Revenue of $1,997 million, up 19% compared to the prior year period, and up 23% excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts Numerous external macro factors, such as rising interest rates, the effects of the strong U.S. dollar, supply-chain challenges, high component costs, and high energy prices continue to impact quarterly results STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS In order to provide long-term value to all our stakeholders, we set complementary business goals and financial strategies. NCR is continuing its transition to become a software platform and payments company with a shift to a higher level of recurring revenue. Our business goal is to be a leading enterprise technology provider that runs stores, restaurants and self-directed banking through our software platform and our NCR-as-a-Service solutions. In late 2021, we established aspirational five-year financial goals for 2026, which include annual recurring revenue of 80 percent by 2026, annual earnings per share (non-GAAP EPS) (1) growth of 15 percent, and annual non-GAAP free cash flow (1) of $1 billion in 2026. Execution of our goals and strategy is driven by the following key pillars: (i) focus on our customers; (ii) take care of our employees; (iii) bring high-quality, innovative products to market; and (iv) leverage our brand. As we strive to achieve these aspirational five-year goals, we plan to capitalize on opportunities presented by the acquisitions of Cardtronics and LibertyX to accelerate our Payments & Network business as we go to market with a more robust offering in this segment. We also plan to continue to improve our execution to drive solid returns and to transform our business to enhance value for all shareholders. (1) With respect to our goals of free cash flow and non-GAAP EPS growth, we are not providing a reconciliation to the respective GAAP measure because we are unable to predict with reasonable certainty the reconciling items that may affect GAAP EPS and Cash flow from operations without unreasonable effort. For our definition of free cash flow, see the Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources section within MD&A. For our definition of non-GAAP EPS and our use of the term annual recurring revenue, see the Key Strategic Financial Metrics section within MD&A. 41 Table of Contents On February 8, 2022, NCR announced that its Board of Directors unanimously approved commencing a comprehensive strategic review, with the assistance of outside advisors, which will evaluate a full range of strategic alternatives available to NCR to enhance value for all shareholders. The Board has not set a timetable for the conclusion of its review of strategic alternatives. NCR does not intend to comment further on the strategic review process unless and until NCR has determined that further disclosure is beneficial or required by law. Shareholders are advised that there can be no certainty that the strategic review will result in a transaction, or if a transaction is pursued that such a transaction will be completed. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, NCR and its customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. The Company maintains cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures including disclosure controls, which it regularly evaluates for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. These policies and procedures include internal notifications and engagements and, as necessary, cooperation with law enforcement. Personnel involved in handling and responding to cybersecurity events periodically undertake tabletop exercises to simulate an event. Our internal notification procedures include notifying the applicable Company attorneys, which, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event, may include direct notice to, among others, the Companys General Counsel, Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Chief Privacy Officer. Company attorneys support efforts to evaluate the materiality of any incidents, determine whether notice to third parties such as customers or vendors is required, determine whether any prohibition on insider trading is appropriate, and assess whether disclosure to stockholders or governmental filings, including with the SEC, are required. Our internal notification procedures also include notifying various NCR Information Technology Services managers, subject matter experts in the Companys software department and Company leadership, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event. Impacts from Geopolitical, Macroeconomic, and COVID-19 Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures as a result of the lingering impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain challenges, foreign currency fluctuations, and spikes in commodity and energy prices as a result of geopolitical challenges, including the war in Eastern Europe. We continue to navigate through these challenges with a sharp focus on and goal of safeguarding our employees, helping our customers and managing impacts on our supply chain. Despite the unprecedented environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. The COVID-19 pandemic is complex and continues to evolve. While it is difficult to project the long-term impact of the pandemic, we expect it will negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the pandemic, supply chain challenges and cost escalations including materials, labor and freight, and any additional governmental and public actions taken in response. The war in Eastern Europe and related sanctions imposed on Russia and related actors have resulted in interest rate acceleration and inflation, including, but not limited to, a significant increase in the price of energy around the world, particularly in regions such as Europe that are significantly dependent on Russia for their energy needs, and continued commodity price increases due to disruption in the mining industry in Ukraine and other factors. The war in Eastern Europe has also contributed to further disruption in logistics due to the shipping difficulties in and around the Black Sea and its ports, which have resulted in the rerouting of traffic to other ports and further logistics challenges. We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of these activities. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. For further information on the risks posed to our business from the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors, refer to Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of the Company's 2021 Form 10-K. For further information on exposures to foreign exchange risk, refer to Item 3, "