Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) Overview The following were the significant events for the first quarter of 2017 , each of which is discussed more fully in later sections of this MD&A: Revenue increased approximately 2% from the prior year period, and increased 9% excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts and adjusting for the divestiture of our Interactive Printer Solutions (IPS) business; Software revenue increased 8% from the prior year period, driven by software license growth of 29% and cloud growth of 6% ; and The Company repurchased approximately 7.4 million shares of its common stock for $350 million in the first quarter of 2017 and subsequently approved a new $300 million share repurchase authorization. Our long-term strategy is built on being a global technology solutions company that uses software and value-added endpoints, coupled with higher-margin services and a focus on cloud and mobile, to help our customers deliver on the promise of an omni-channel experience. To deliver on our strategy in 2017 , we are focused on sales enablement, services transformation, evolving our software business model, investing in innovation and cultivating our culture and team. Sales Enablement - Providing our sales force with the training, tools and processes necessary for consultative selling, supported by a strong solutions management function that innovates the way in which we go to market, and expanding our organization of channel partners. Services Transformation - Driving improved services performance by focusing on a higher mix of managed services, improving our productivity and efficiency, expanding our remote diagnostics and repair capabilities and creating greater discipline in our product lifecycle management. Evolving our Business Model - Continuing the shift in our business model to provide innovative end-to-end software platform solutions for our customers, with best in class software support while keeping an efficient cost structure to create competitive advantage. Investing in Innovation - Optimizing our operating model and prioritizing investments in areas with the greatest potential for profitable growth, such as cloud solutions and professional, managed and other services. Cultivating our Culture and Team - Organizing and recruiting with an eye toward the future, and investing in, training and developing our employees to accelerate the delivery of our innovative solutions and to focus on the needs of our customers and changes in consumer behavior. We plan, in advancing our strategy, to continue to manage our costs effectively, to selectively pursue strategic acquisitions that promote growth and improve gross margin, and to selectively penetrate market adjacencies in single and emerging growth industry segments. Potentially significant risks to the execution of our initiatives include domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, uncertainty in the Chinese economy and economic sanctions against Russia, the determination by Britain to exit the European Union and further potential changes in Eurozone participation, the potential for changes to global or regional trade agreements or the imposition of protectionist trade policies, and the imposition of import or export tariffs or border adjustments; strengthening of the U.S. Dollar resulting in unfavorable foreign currency impacts; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in Middle East and Africa; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; competition that can drive further price erosion and the potential loss of market share; difficulties associated with the introduction of products in new markets; market adoption of our products by customers; and management and servicing of our existing indebtedness. Results from Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 37 Table of Contents The following table shows our results for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2017 2016 Revenue $ 1,478 $ 1,444 Gross margin $ 413 $ 380 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 27.9 % 26.3 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 229 $ 224 Research and development expenses 67 53 Restructuring-related charges 2 Income from operations $ 117 $ 101 The following table shows our revenue by geographic theater for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2017 % of Total 2016 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Adjusted Constant Currency (1) Americas $ 847 57% $ 819 57% 3% 8% Europe, Middle East Africa (EMEA) 422 29% 427 29% (1)% 10% Asia Pacific (APJ) 209 14% 198 14% 6% 8% Consolidated revenue $ 1,478 100% $ 1,444 100% 2% 9% The following table shows our revenue by segment for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2017 % of Total 2016 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Adjusted Constant Currency (1) Software $ 452 30% $ 419 29% 8% 8% Services 557 38% 543 38% 3% 4% Hardware 469 32% 482 33% (3)% 15% Consolidated revenue $ 1,478 100% $ 1,444 100% 2% 9% (1) The tables above each include a presentation of period-over-period revenue growth or decline on an adjusted constant currency basis, which is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of foreign currency fluctuations and the impact of the IPS divestiture. We calculate this information by translating prior period revenue growth at current period monthly average exchange rates and by excluding the prior period results of the divested IPS business for the comparable period after the completion of the sale. We believe that examining period-over-period revenue growth or decline excluding foreign currency fluctuations and adjusting for the impact of the IPS divestiture is useful for assessing the underlying performance of our business, and our management uses revenue growth adjusted for constant currency and the impact of the IPS divestiture to evaluate period-over-period operating performance. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, period-over-period revenue growth under GAAP. 38 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of geographic theater revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth adjusted constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Divestiture impact Revenue % Growth Adjusted Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Americas 3% % (5)% 8% EMEA (1)% (5)% (6)% 10% APJ 6% 2% (4)% 8% Consolidated revenue 2% (1)% (6)% 9% The following table provides a reconciliation of segment revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth adjusted constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Divestiture impact Revenue % Growth Adjusted Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Software 8% % % 8% Services 3% (1)% % 4% Hardware (3)% (1)% (17)% 15% Consolidated revenue 2% (1)% (6)% 9% Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , revenue increased 2% due to growth in the Americas and APJ regions in the Software and Services segments. Foreign currency fluctuations and the IPS divestiture unfavorably impacted the revenue comparison by 1% and 6% , respectively. Software revenue increased 8% driven by growth in software license, cloud, and professional services. Services revenue increased 3% due to growth in hardware maintenance, managed and implementation services. Hardware revenue decreased 3% due to the impact of the IPS divestiture in the prior year. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Hardware revenue included $72 million for the IPS operations, other than MEA. Excluding the impact of the IPS divestiture and unfavorable foreign currency impacts, Hardware revenue increased 15% due to growth in self-checkout (SCO) and point-of-sale (POS) revenue, partially offset by declines in ATM revenue. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 was 27.9% compared to 26.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Gross margin as a percentage of revenue expanded across all businesses, which reflects the results of our strategic focus on business transformation, a positive revenue mix shift, and productivity and efficiency gains. Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $229 million , or 15.5% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to $224 million , or 15.5% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2017 included $16 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles, $4 million of transformation costs and $1 million of acquisition-related costs. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2016 included $16 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles, $2 million of restructuring and transformation related costs and $2 million of acquisition-related costs. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses remained consistent at 14.1% of revenue. Research and development expenses were $67 million , or 4.5% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to $53 million , or 3.7% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2017 included $3 million of transformation costs. Excluding this cost, 39 Table of Contents research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue increased from 3.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2016 to 4.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in research and development expenses was driven by planned incremental investments to further advance our software and hardware solutions. In the three months ended March 31, 2017 , restructuring-related charges were zero as compared to $2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Interest and Other Expense Items Interest expense was $39 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to $46 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2016 included a $4 million write-off of deferred financing fees associated with the amendment of the senior secured credit facility. Other expense, net was $7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to $10 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Other expense, net in the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 included $4 million and $8 million , respectively, of losses from foreign currency remeasurement and foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim periods are based on an estimated annual effective income tax rate calculated separately from the effect of significant, infrequent or unusual items. Income tax expense was $14 million and $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The increase in income tax expense was driven by an increase in income from continuing operations, partially offset by an increase in discrete benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in discrete benefits was primarily driven by the recognition of excess tax benefits of stock based compensation awards in the income statement as a result of the adoption of the accounting standard related to employee share-based payments. The Company anticipates potential periodic volatility in future effective tax rates for the continuing impact of excess tax benefits or shortfalls resulting from stock based compensation awards. Additionally, NCR is subject to numerous federal, state and foreign tax audits. While NCR believes that appropriate reserves exist for issues that might arise from these audits, should these audits be settled, the resulting tax effect could impact the tax provision and cash flows in 2017 or future periods. The Company regularly reviews our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence; given current earnings and anticipated future earnings at certain subsidiaries, the Company believes that there is a reasonable possibility sufficient positive evidence may become available that would allow the release of a valuation allowance within the next twelve months. Revenue and Operating Income by Segment The Company manages and reports the following three segments: Software - Our software portfolio includes industry-based software applications and application suites for the financial services, retail, hospitality and small business industries. We also offer other industry-oriented software applications including cash management software, video banking software, fraud and loss prevention applications, check and document imaging, remote-deposit capture and customer-facing digital banking applications for the financial services industry; and secure electronic and mobile payment solutions, sector-specific point of sale software applications, and back-office inventory and store and restaurant management applications for the retail and hospitality industries. Additionally, we provide ongoing software support and maintenance services, as well as consulting and implementation services for our software solutions. Services - Our global end-to-end services solutions include assessment and preparation, staging, installation, implementation, and maintenance and support for our hardware solutions. We also provide systems management and complete managed services for our product offerings. In addition, we provide servicing for third party networking products and computer hardware from select manufacturers. Hardware - Our hardware solutions include our suite of financial-oriented self-service ATM-related hardware, and our retail- and hospitality-oriented point of sale terminal, self-checkout kiosk and related hardware. We also offer other self-service kiosks, such as self-check in/out kiosks for airlines, and wayfinding solutions for buildings and campuses. Each of these segments derives its revenue by selling in the sales regions in which NCR operates. Segments are measured for profitability by the Companys chief operating decision maker based on revenue and segment operating income. For purposes of discussing our operating results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain non-operational items from segment operating income, consistent with the manner by which management reviews each segment, evaluates performance, and reports our segment 40 Table of Contents results under GAAP. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by NCR management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 13, Segment Information and Concentrations, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In the segment discussions below, we have disclosed the impact of foreign currency fluctuations and the IPS divestiture as it relates to our segment revenue due to its significance during the quarter. Software Segment The following table shows the Software revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2017 2016 Revenue $ 452 $ 419 Operating income $ 125 $ 115 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 27.7 % 27.4 % In the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Software revenue increased 8% , driven by growth in software license and cloud revenue, which were up 29% and 6% , respectively. Software license growth was primarily due to continued demand for the Company's Channel Transformation solutions. Cloud revenue growth was due to prior period bookings. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have a significant impact on the revenue comparisons. Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in operating income was driven by higher revenue and increased efficiency and scale across our Software segment. Services Segment The following table shows the Services revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2017 2016 Revenue $ 557 $ 543 Operating income $ 45 $ 34 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 8.1 % 6.3 % In the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Services revenue increased 3% , driven by growth in hardware maintenance revenue as a result of improving trends for the Company's Channel Transformation solutions, combined with increased managed and implementation services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact on the revenue comparison of 1% . Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 primarily due to business process improvement initiatives and a mix shift of higher value services. Hardware Segment The following table shows the Hardware revenue and segment operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2017 2016 Revenue $ 469 $ 482 Operating income $ (10 ) $ (10 ) Operating income as a percentage of revenue (2.1 )% (2.1 )% 41 Table of Contents In the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Hardware revenue decreased 3% , driven primarily by the impact of the IPS divestiture in the prior year. In the three months ended March 31, 2016 , Hardware revenue included $72 million for the results of IPS operations, other than MEA. Excluding the impact of the IPS divestiture and unfavorable foreign currency, Hardware revenue increased due to growth in SCO and POS revenue partially offset by declines in ATM revenue. SCO and POS revenue increased due to higher demand for the Company's Store Transformation solutions and new product offerings. ATM revenue decreased due to lower backlog entering the year, as well as lower conversion rates in the first quarter of 2017 . Foreign currency fluctuations and the sale of the IPS business had an unfavorable impact on the revenue comparison of 1% and 17% , respectively. Operating income remained consistent in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 driven by an increase in the gross margin rate due to a favorable mix of revenue, as well as new product introductions gaining scale offset by higher operating expenses. Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Cash provided by operating activities was $43 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to $23 million in the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to higher operating income. NCRs management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations, less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, less additions to capitalized software, plus discretionary pension contributions and settlements. We believe free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flows from the Companys continuing and discontinued operations to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, repurchases of NCR stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP, and therefore NCRs definition may differ from other companies definitions of this measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to NCRs non-GAAP measure of free cash flow for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 43 $ 23 Less: Expenditures for property, plant and equipment (11 ) (9 ) Less: Additions to capitalized software (41 ) (31 ) Net cash used in discontinued operations (3 ) (12 ) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ (12 ) $ (29 ) The increase in expenditures was due to timing of capital expenditures as compared to the prior year. The change in cash flows from discontinued operations from the prior year was due to decreased litigation payments related to the Fox River and Kalamazoo River environmental matters. Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities primarily include business acquisitions, divestitures and investments as well as proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from employee stock plans, repurchases of NCR common stock and borrowings and repayments of credit facilities and notes. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , we repurchased a total of $350 million and $213 million , respectively, of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , proceeds from employee stock plans were $3 million , respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , we paid $22 million and $6 million , respectively, of tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested. Long Term Borrowings As of March 31, 2017 , our senior secured credit facility consisted of a term loan facility with an aggregate principal outstanding balance of $855 million , and a revolving credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion , 42 Table of Contents of which $85 million was outstanding. Additionally, the revolving credit facility has up to $400 million available to certain foreign subsidiaries. Loans under the revolving credit facility are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros and Pound Sterling. The revolving credit facility also allows a portion of the availability to be used for outstanding letters of credit, and as of March 31, 2017 , there were no letters of credit outstanding. As of December 31, 2016 , the outstanding principal balance of the term loan facility was $866 million and the outstanding balance on the revolving facility was zero . As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , we had outstanding $700 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $600 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2022, $500 million in aggregate principal balance of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 and $400 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due in 2021. Our revolving trade receivables securitization facility provides the Company with up to $200 million in funding based on the availability of eligible receivables and other customary factors and conditions. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , the Company had $200 million and zero , respectively, outstanding under the facility. Employee Benefit Plans In 2017 , we expect to make contributions of $30 million to our international pension plans, $55 million to our postemployment plan and $3 million to our postretirement plan. For additional information, refer to Note 6, Employee Benefit Plans, of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Restructuring Program In July 2014, we announced a restructuring plan to strategically reallocate resources so that we can focus on higher-growth, higher-margin opportunities in the software-driven consumer transaction technologies industry and as of March 31, 2017 , this plan was complete. Refer to Note 15, "Restructuring Plan," of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion on our restructuring plan. However, we remain focused on continuing our transformation by improving sales execution, increasing customer services productivity and loyalty, making software our business and optimizing our cost structure. We may identify additional restructuring activities as we operationalize the transformation initiatives. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On December 4, 2015, NCR issued 820,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to certain entities affiliated with the Blackstone Group L.P. for an aggregate purchase price of $820 million , or $1,000 per share, pursuant to an Investment Agreement between the Company and Blackstone, dated November 11, 2015. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company incurred direct and incremental expenses of $26 million . These direct and incremental expenses reduced the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and will be accreted through retained earnings as a deemed dividend from the date of issuance through the first possible known redemption date, March 16, 2024. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. During the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , the Company paid dividends-in-kind of $12 million , respectively. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , the Company had accrued dividends of $3 million , respectively. There were no cash dividends declared during the three months ended March 31, 2017 or 2016 , respectively. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holders at any time into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share, or a conversion rate of 33.333 shares of common stock per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Under the Investment Agreement, Blackstone agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or any shares of common stock issued upon conversion thereof) without the Companys consent until June 4, 2017. In March 2017, we provided Blackstone with an early release from this lock-up, allowing Blackstone to sell approximately 49% of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and in return, Blackstone agreed to amend the Investment Agreement to extend the lock-up on the remaining 51% of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for six months until December 1, 2017. In connection with the early release of the lock-up, Blackstone offered for sale 342,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in an underwritten public offering. In addition, Blackstone converted 90,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock and we repurchased those shares of common stock for $48.47 per share. The underwritten offering and the stock repurchase were consummated on March 17, 2017. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 , the maximum number of common shares that could be required to be issued upon conversion of the outstanding shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was 26.4 million and 29.0 million shares, respectively. 43 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were $379 million and $428 million , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. Summary As of March 31, 2017 , our cash and cash equivalents totaled $401 million and our total debt was $3.33 billion . As of March 31, 2017 , our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was approximately $1.0 billion , and under our trade receivables securitization facility was zero , as it was fully drawn. Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of the Companys 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item IA of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of our credit facilities or senior unsecured notes, we may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity based on our current cash position, cash flows from operations and existing financing to meet our required pension, postemployment, and postretirement plan contributions, remediation and other payments related to the Fox River and Kalamazoo River environmental matters, debt servicing obligations, payments related to the restructuring plan, and our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments There have been no significant changes in our contractual and other commercial obligations as described in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The Companys uncertain tax positions are not expected to have a significant impact on liquidity or sources and uses of capital resources. Our product warranties are discussed in Note 7, "Commitments and Contingencies," of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As described in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted an accounting standard update for share-based compensation effective January 1, 2017. Accordingly, we now record excess tax benefits resulting from stock based awards to employees in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, at the time the awards vest, as a component of the provision for income taxes. Additionally, our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows will present excess tax benefits, if any, as an operating activity. Management reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our 2016 Form 10-K and determined that, other than the change in accounting for share-based compensation, there were no changes to our critical accounting policies in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Also, there were no significant changes in our estimates associated with those policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for new accounting pronouncements. Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements use words such as expect, anticipate, outlook, intend, believe, will, should, would, could and words of similar meaning. Statements that describe or relate to NCRs plans, goals, intentions, strategies or financial outlook, and statements that do not relate to historical or current fact, are examples of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate, and involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are out of NCR's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and there are a number of important factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including those factors relating to: domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from uncertainty in the Chinese economy, economic sanctions against Russia, the determination by Britain to exit the European Union and further potential changes in Eurozone participation, the potential for changes to global or regional trade agreements or the imposition of protectionist trade policies, and the imposition of import or export tariffs or border adjustments; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; the impact of the terms of our strategic relationship with Blackstone and our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; the transformation of our business model and our ability to sell higher-margin software and services; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; cybersecurity risks and compliance 44 Table of Contents with data privacy and protection requirements; foreign currency fluctuations; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete in the information technology industry; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; defects or errors in our products; manufacturing disruptions; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in Emerging Industries; the historical seasonality of our sales; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances, including the divestiture of our Interactive Printer Solutions business; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligation; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives; tax rates; reliance on third party suppliers; development and protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims and other matters across various jurisdictions. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Information About NCR NCR encourages investors to visit its web site ( http://www.ncr.com ) which is updated regularly with financial and other important information about NCR. The contents of the Companys web site are not incorporated into this quarterly report or the Companys other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 45 Table of Contents