Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) First Quarter Overview The following were the significant events for the first quarter of 2019 , each of which is discussed more fully in later sections of this MD&A: Revenue increased approximately 1% from the prior year period and 4% excluding unfavorable foreign currency impacts; Change in management of the business to an industry basis from the previous model on a solution basis to align focus to drive strategic initiatives discussed below; Banking revenue increased 5% and operating margin increased 80 basis points from the prior year period; Retail revenue decreased 2% and operating margin rate declined 160 basis points from the prior year period; and Hospitality revenue decreased 5% and operating margin rate declined 100 basis points from the prior year period. Strategic Overview The rise of digital first commerce, mobile engagement and globalization have dramatically altered the relationship between business and consumer. Increasingly, mega-trends such as big data, the Internet of things and the cloud are driving the next generation of changes in consumer behavior. Consumers now expect businesses to provide a rich, integrated and personalized experience across all commerce channels, including online, mobile and in-store. NCR is at the forefront of this commerce shift, assisting businesses of every size in their digital first channel transformation journeys. Our mission is to be the leading software- and services-led enterprise provider in the financial, retail, hospitality and telecommunications and technology industries, with solutions designed to allow businesses in the industries we serve to deliver a rich, integrated and personalized experience to consumers across digital and physical commerce channels, enabling our customers to move their business forward in a digital first environment. To fulfill this mission, we have developed a long-term growth strategy built on taking better care of our customers, improving execution of new product introductions, accelerating revenue growth and executing spend optimization programs. We believe that our mission and long-term strategy position NCR to continue to drive growth, sustainable revenue, profit and cash flow, and to improve value for all of our stakeholders. To deliver on our mission and strategy, we are focused on the following main initiatives in 2019: Customer Care - Improve the customer experience and execution of new product introductions; Stockholder Value - Accelerate profitable top-line revenue growth by investing in and shifting our revenue mix to recurring software and services revenue streams we identify as strategic growth platforms, while improving the Companys cost structure; Strategic Growth Platforms and Targeted Acquisitions - Increase capital expenditures in strategic growth platforms and target acquisitions to gain solutions that drive the highest growth and return on investment; Talent and Employee Care - Develop, reward and retain talent with competitive recruiting, training and effective incentive-based compensation programs; and Sales Enablement - Provide our sales force with top-performing and secure products packaged to target our desired revenue mix and drive customer delight and stockholder value, as well as invest in appropriate training programs to enable success. Potentially significant risks to the execution of our initiatives and achievement of our strategy include the strength of demand for the products we offer or will offer in the future consistent with our strategy and its effect on our businesses; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from the imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial, retail and hospitality industries, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, the determination by the United Kingdom to exit the European Union and the execution of the same; uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices; our ability to transform our business model and to sell higher-margin software and services with recurring revenue, including our ability to successfully streamline our hardware operations; the success of our restructuring plans and spend optimization program; our ability to improve execution of new product offering or integration of acquired product offerings; market acceptance of new solutions; competition in the information technology industry; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and 41 Table of Contents protection requirements; disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; defects or errors in our products; the historical seasonality of our sales; tax rates and new US tax legislation; and foreign currency fluctuations. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, NCR is subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. The Company maintains cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures including disclosure controls, which it regularly evaluates for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. These policies and procedures include internal notifications and engagements and, as necessary, cooperation with law enforcement. Personnel involved in handling and responding to cybersecurity events periodically undertake tabletop exercises to simulate an event. The internal notification procedures include notifying the applicable Company attorneys, which, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event, may include direct notice to, among others, the Companys General Counsel, Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Chief Privacy Officer. Company attorneys support efforts to evaluate the materiality of any incidents, determine whether notice to third parties such as customers or vendors is required, determine whether any prohibition on insider trading is appropriate, and assess whether disclosure to stockholders or governmental filings, including with the SEC, are required. The internal notification procedures also include notifying various NCR Information Technology Services managers, subject matter experts in the Companys software department and Company leadership, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event. Results from Operations Three months ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three months ended March 31, 2018 The following table shows our results for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2019 2018 Revenue $ 1,536 $ 1,517 Gross margin 411 420 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 26.8 % 27.7 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses 252 245 Research and development expenses 59 66 Income from operations $ 100 $ 109 The following table shows our revenue by geography for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2019 % of Total 2018 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Americas $ 920 60% $ 889 58% 3% 5% Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 419 27% 408 27% 3% 9% Asia Pacific (APJ) 197 13% 220 15% (10)% (6)% Consolidated revenue $ 1,536 100% $ 1,517 100% 1% 4% 42 Table of Contents The following table shows our revenue by segment for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2019 % of Total 2018 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Banking $ 758 49% $ 721 48% 5% 9% Retail 511 33% 521 34% (2)% 1% Hospitality 193 13% 204 13% (5)% (4)% Other 74 5% 71 5% 4% 7% Consolidated revenue $ 1,536 100% $ 1,517 100% 1% 4% (1) The tables above for the three months ended March 31 are presented with period-over-period revenue growth or declines on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. We calculate this information by translating prior period revenue growth at current period monthly average exchange rates. We believe that examining period-over-period revenue growth or decline excluding foreign currency fluctuations is useful for assessing the underlying performance of our business, and our management uses revenue growth adjusted for constant currency to evaluate period-over-period operating performance. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, period-over-period revenue growth under GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of geographic revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Americas 3% (2)% 5% EMEA 3% (6)% 9% APJ (10)% (4)% (6)% Consolidated revenue 1% (3)% 4% The following table provides a reconciliation of segment revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2019 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Banking 5% (4)% 9% Retail (2)% (3)% 1% Hospitality (5)% (1)% (4)% Other 4% (3)% 7% Consolidated revenue 1% (3)% 4% Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , revenue increased 1% due to a an increase in Banking offset by decreases in Retail and Hospitality. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 3% to the revenue comparison. Banking revenue increased 5% due to a 21% growth in ATM revenue driven by higher backlog conversion as well as higher recurring revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations unfavorably impacted the revenue comparison by 4% . 43 Table of Contents Retail revenue decreased 2% driven by a large implementation services project in the prior year partially offset by an increase in payments and strength in self-checkout revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 3% on the revenue comparison. Hospitality revenue decreased 5% driven by lower hardware revenue partially offset by higher recurring revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations unfavorably impacted the revenue comparison by 1% . The changes to segment revenue and the drivers thereof are discussed in further detail under " Revenue and Operating Income by Segment " below. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 was 26.8% compared to 27.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2019 included $8 million of costs related to restructuring and transformation initiatives and $6 million related to acquisition-related amortization of intangibles. Gross margin in the three months ended March 31, 2018 included of $4 million of costs related to transformation initiatives and $7 million related to acquisition-related amortization of intangibles. Excluding these items, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased from 28.4% to 27.7% due to an overall unfavorable mix of revenue partially offset by gains from our services transformation initiatives. Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $252 million , or 16.4% as a percentage of revenue, as compared to $245 million , or 16.2% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 , respectively. Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2019 included $15 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $15 million of costs related to restructuring and transformation initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2018 included $16 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $10 million of costs related to our transformation initiatives costs. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses increased slightly from 14.4% as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 14.5% as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Research and development expenses were $59 million , or 3.8% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to $66 million , or 4.4% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018 included $3 million and $2 million , respectively, of costs related to our restructuring and transformation initiatives. Excluding these costs, research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 4.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 3.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to cost reduction benefits realized as well as an increased investment in our strategic growth platforms. Interest and Other Expense Items Interest expense was $45 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $41 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to higher interest rates. Other expense, net was $8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Other expense, net in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 each included $6 million of losses from foreign currency remeasurement and foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim (quarterly) periods are based on an estimated annual effective income tax rate calculated separately from the effect of significant, infrequent or unusual items. Income tax expense was $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to income tax expense of $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily driven by a decrease in discrete benefits offset by lower income before taxes in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . The decrease in discrete benefits was primarily driven by favorable audit settlements in international jurisdictions during the three months ended March 31, 2018 that did not recur during the three months ended March 31, 2019. NCR is subject to numerous federal, state and foreign tax audits. While NCR believes that appropriate reserves exist for issues that might arise from these audits, should these audits be settled, the resulting tax effect could impact the tax provision and cash flows in 2019 or future periods. The Company regularly reviews our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on the evaluation 44 Table of Contents of positive and negative evidence; given current earnings and anticipated future earnings at certain subsidiaries, the Company believes that there is a reasonable possibility that sufficient positive evidence may become available that would allow the release of a valuation allowance within the next twelve months. Loss from Discontinued Operations In the three months ended March 31, 2019 , there was no activity related to discontinued operations. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 , the loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $35 million driven by a ruling on the Kalamazoo environmental site. Revenue and Operating Income by Segment The Company manages and reports the following segments: Banking - We offer solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM processing hardware and software; cash management and video banking software and customer-facing digital banking services; and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. Retail - We offer solutions to customers in the retail industry designed to improve selling productivity and checkout processes as well as increase service levels. These solutions primarily include retail-oriented technologies, such as point of sale terminals and point of sale software; a retail software platform with a comprehensive suite of retail software applications; innovative self-service kiosks, such as self-checkout; as well as bar-code scanners. We also offer installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. Hospitality - We offer technology solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, serving businesses that range from a single store or restaurant to global chains and sports and entertainment venues. Our solutions include point of sale hardware and software solutions, installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. Other - This category includes telecommunications and technology solutions where we offer maintenance as well as managed and professional services for third-party hardware provided to select manufacturers who value and leverage our global service capability. Each of these segments derives its revenue by selling in the geographies in which NCR operates. Segments are measured for profitability by the Companys chief operating decision maker based on revenue and segment operating income. For purposes of discussing our operating results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain non-operational items from segment operating income, consistent with the manner by which management reviews each segment, evaluates performance, and reports our segment results under GAAP. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by NCR management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 3. Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In the segment discussions below, we have disclosed the impact of foreign currency fluctuations as it relates to our segment revenue. Banking The following table shows the Banking revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2019 2018 Revenue $ 758 $ 721 Operating income $ 95 $ 84 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 12.5 % 11.7 % In the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , revenue increased 5% , due to growth of 21% in ATM revenue driven by higher backlog conversion as well as higher recurring revenue. The revenue growth was mainly driven by strength in North America partially offset by a decline in Asia Pacific. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 4% on the revenue comparison. 45 Table of Contents Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in operating income was primarily due to a favorable mix of revenue, both by product and geography, as well as a favorable impact from productivity initiatives. Retail The following table shows the Retail revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2019 2018 Revenue $ 511 $ 521 Operating income $ 26 $ 35 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 5.1 % 6.7 % In the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , revenue decreased 2% driven by a large implementation services project in the prior year partially offset by increase in payment processing revenue and strength in self-checkout revenue. The revenue decline was mainly driven by North America and Japan partially offset by growth in Europe. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 3% on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to an unfavorable mix of revenue. Hospitality The following table shows the Hospitality revenue and operating loss for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2019 2018 Revenue $ 193 $ 204 Operating income $ 16 $ 19 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 8.3 % 9.3 % In the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , revenue decreased 5% due to lower hardware revenue partially offset by higher recurring revenue. The revenue decline was mainly driven by North America. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 driven by a decline in hardware revenue, continued investment in customer satisfaction initiatives partially offset by an increase in software revenue. 46 Table of Contents Other The following table shows the Other revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2019 2018 Revenue $ 74 $ 71 Operating income $ 10 $ 10 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 13.5 % 14.1 % In the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , revenue increased 4% due to an increase in recurring revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 3% on the revenue comparison. Operating income was flat in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 driven by the increase in revenue offset by investment in sales resources. Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Cash used in operating activities was $16 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to cash used in operating activities of $24 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease in cash used in operating activities was due to working capital improvements. NCRs management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations, less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, less additions to capitalized software, plus discretionary pension contributions and settlements. We believe free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flows from the Companys continuing and discontinued operations to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, repurchases of NCR stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP, and therefore NCRs definition may differ from other companies definitions of this measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to NCRs non-GAAP measure of free cash flow for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2019 2018 Net cash used in operating activities $ (16 ) $ (24 ) Expenditures for property, plant and equipment (22 ) (29 ) Additions to capitalized software (43 ) (42 ) Net cash used in discontinued operations (6 ) (4 ) Free cash outflow (non-GAAP) $ (87 ) $ (99 ) The decrease in expenditures for property, plant and equipment is primarily due to tenant improvements in our new world headquarters completed in the previous period, which were partially reimbursed by the lessor and included in net cash provided by operating activities. Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities primarily include business acquisitions, divestitures and investments as well as proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. 47 Table of Contents Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from employee stock plans, repurchases of NCR common stock and borrowings and repayments of credit facilities and notes. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we repurchased a total of $165 million of our common stock. There were no repurchases of our common stock completed during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , proceeds from employee stock plans were $4 million and $5 million , respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , we paid $13 million and $11 million , respectively, of tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested. Long Term Borrowings As of March 31, 2019 , our senior secured credit facility consisted of a term loan facility with an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $743 million , and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion , of which $75 million was outstanding, subject to certain covenant limitations. Additionally, the revolving credit facility has up to $400 million available to certain foreign subsidiaries. Loans under the revolving credit facility are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros and Pound Sterling. The revolving credit facility also allows a portion of the availability to be used for outstanding letters of credit, and as of March 31, 2019 , there were no letters of credit outstanding. As of December 31, 2018 , the outstanding principal balance of the term loan facility was $759 million and the outstanding balance on the revolving facility was $120 million . As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , we had outstanding $700 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $600 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2022, $500 million in aggregate principal balance of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 and $400 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due in 2021. Our revolving trade receivables securitization facility provides the Company with up to $200 million in funding based on the availability of eligible receivables and other customary factors and conditions. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , the Company had $200 million and $100 million , respectively, outstanding under the facility. Employee Benefit Plans In 2019 , we expect to make contributions of $28 million to our international pension plans, $30 million to our postemployment plan and $2 million to our postretirement plan. For additional information, refer to Note 8. Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Transformation and Restructuring Initiatives Our previously announced transformation and restructuring initiatives continue to progress and remain on track. Our services performance and profit improvement program continues to deliver revenue growth and margin expansion. Our manufacturing transformation initiatives to move to a variable cost structure by reducing the number of manufacturing plants and ramping up production with contract manufacturers is substantially complete. Additionally, we are benefiting from our spend optimization program to drive cost savings through operational efficiencies to generate at least $100 million of savings in 2019 and are on track with the actions completed and delivering benefits through March 31, 2019. This initiative will create efficiencies in our corporate functions, reduce spend in the non-strategic areas and limit discretionary spending. We incurred a pre-tax charge of $26 million in the first quarter of 2019 with a cash impact of $18 million. In 2019, for all initiatives, we expect to incur a pre-tax charge of $60 million and a cash impact of $70 million to $80 million. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On December 4, 2015, NCR issued 820,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to certain entities affiliated with the Blackstone Group L.P. for an aggregate purchase price of $820 million , or $1,000 per share, pursuant to an Investment Agreement between the Company and Blackstone, dated November 11, 2015. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company incurred direct and incremental expenses of $26 million . These direct and incremental expenses reduced the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and will be accreted through retained earnings as a deemed dividend from the date of issuance through the first possible known redemption date, March 16, 2024. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , the Company paid dividends-in-kind of $12 million and $11 million , respectively, associated with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , the Company had accrued dividends of $3 million , respectively, associated with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. There were no cash dividends declared during the three months ended March 31, 2019 or 2018 . The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holders at any time into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share, or a conversion rate of 33.333 shares of common stock per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , the maximum number of common shares that could be required to be issued upon conversion of the outstanding shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was 29.4 million and 29.0 million , respectively. 48 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 were $395 million and $443 million , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. Summary As of March 31, 2019 , our cash and cash equivalents totaled $414 million and our total debt was $3.23 billion . As of March 31, 2019 , our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was approximately $1.0 billion , and under our trade receivables securitization facility was zero . Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of the Companys 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of our credit facilities or senior unsecured notes, we may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity based on our current cash position, cash flows from operations and existing financing to meet our required pension, postemployment, and postretirement plan contributions, remediation and other payments related to the Fox River and Kalamazoo River environmental matters, debt servicing obligations, and our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments The Companys uncertain tax positions are not expected to have a significant impact on liquidity or sources and uses of capital resources. Our product warranties are discussed in Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by SEC Regulation S-K Item 303 (a) (4) (ii). Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Management reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K and determined that there were no changes to our critical accounting policies or our estimates associated with those policies in the three months ended March 31, 2019 . New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for new accounting pronouncements. Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements use words such as expect, anticipate, outlook, intend, plan, believe, will, should, would, could and words of similar meaning. Statements that describe or relate to NCRs plans, goals, intentions, strategies or financial outlook, and statements that do not relate to historical or current fact, are examples of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate, and involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are out of NCR's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and there are a number of important factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including those factors relating to: the strength of demand for ATMs and other financial services hardware and its effect on the results of our businesses and reportable segments; our ability to generate accurate forecasts of product demand and to engage third-party suppliers appropriately to meet that demand, including the on-boarding of new or additional suppliers; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from uncertainty in the "BRIC" economies, economic sanctions against Russia, the determination by Britain to exit the European Union, the potential for changes to global or regional trade agreements or the imposition of protectionist trade policies, and the imposition of import or export tariffs or border adjustments; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; the impact of the terms of our strategic relationship with Blackstone and our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; the transformation of our business model and our ability to sell higher-margin software and services; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete in the information technology industry; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; defects or errors in our products; manufacturing disruptions, including those caused by or related to outsourced 49 Table of Contents manufacturing; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in Emerging Industries; the historical seasonality of our sales; foreign currency fluctuations; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligation; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives, including those in our Hardware segment; tax rates; reliance on third party suppliers; development and protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; uncertainties or delays associated with the transition of key business leaders; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims and other matters across various jurisdictions. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Information About NCR NCR encourages investors to visit its web site ( http://www.ncr.com ), which is updated regularly with financial and other important information about NCR. The contents of the Companys web site are not incorporated into this quarterly report or the Companys other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 50 Table of Contents