Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Condensed Combined Financial Statements and notes thereto included under Item 1. Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q and our Combined Financial Statements and notes thereto and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in our Registration Statement on Form 10, initially filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on June 26, 2023 and as further amended thereafter and declared effective on August 11, 2023 (as amended, the Form 10), and in our information statement dated August 14, 2023, for the year ended December 31, 2022. The section of this Form 10-Q titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See the sections of the Form 10-Q titled Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements included in this information statement have been derived from NCRs historical accounting records and are presented on a stand-alone basis as if Atleoss operations had been conducted independently from NCR. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and NCRs historical accounting policies, by aggregating financial information from the components of Atleos and NCRs accounting records directly attributable to Atleos. The Condensed Combined Statements of Operations include all revenues and costs directly attributable to Atleos, including costs for facilities, functions and services used by Atleos. Atleoss businesses have historically functioned together with the other businesses controlled by NCR. Accordingly, Atleos relied on NCRs corporate overhead and other support functions for its business. Therefore, certain corporate overhead and shared costs have been allocated to Atleos including (i) certain general and administrative expenses related to NCR support functions that are provided on a centralized basis within NCR (e.g., expenses for corporate facilities, executive oversight, treasury, finance, legal, human resources, compliance, information technology, employee benefit plans, stock compensation plans, and other corporate functions) and (ii) certain operations support costs incurred by NCR, including product sourcing, maintenance and support services, and other supply chain functions. These expenses have been specifically identified, when possible, or allocated based on revenues, headcount, usage or other allocation methods that are considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided or benefit received. Management considers that such allocations have been made on a reasonable basis consistent with benefits received but may not necessarily be indicative of the costs that would have been incurred if Atleos had been operated on a standalone basis for the periods presented. Our discussion within MD&A is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company, summary of significant themes and events during the quarter as well as strategic initiatives and trends in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying Condensed Combined Statements of Operations by comparing the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2023 to the results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2022. Financial condition, liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our contractual obligations at September 30, 2023. OVERVIEW BUSINESS OVERVIEW Atleos is an industry-leading financial technology company providing self-directed banking solutions to a global customer base including financial institutions, merchants, manufacturers, retailers and consumers. Self-directed banking is a rapidly growing, secular trend that allows banking customers to transact seamlessly between various channels all for the same transaction. Our comprehensive solutions enable the acceleration of self-directed banking through ATM and interactive teller machine (ITM) technology, including software, services, hardware and our proprietary Allpoint network. While we provide all our solutions on a modular basis, we have also assembled these capabilities into a turnkey, end-to-end platform which we have branded ATM-as-a-Service. 35 Table of Contents Atleos operates two leading business segments focused on facilitating self-service banking through ATMs supported by a shared set of tools, systems and platforms. In addition, we operate a Telecommunications and Technology (T&T) segment offering managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. We manage our operations in the following segments: Self-Service Banking, Network (previously referred to as Payments & Network), and T&T. Self-Service Banking - Offers solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM hardware and software, and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. We also offer solutions to manage and run the ATM channel end-to-end for financial institutions that include back office, cash management, software management and ATM deployment, among others. Network - Provides a cost-effective way for financial institutions, fintechs, and neobanks to reach and serve their customers through our network of ATMs and multi-functioning financial services kiosks. We offer credit unions, banks, digital banks, fintechs, stored-value debit card issuers, and other consumer financial services providers access to our Allpoint retail-based ATM network, providing convenient and fee-free cash withdrawal and deposit access to their customers and cardholders as well as the ability to convert a digital value to cash, or vice versa, via NCRPay360. We also provide ATM branding solutions to financial institutions as well as ATM management and services to retailers and other businesses. T&T - Offers managed network and infrastructure services to enterprise clients across all industries via direct relationships with communications service providers and technology manufacturers. Our customers rely on us as a strategic partner to help them reduce complexity, improve cost efficiency, and enable global geographical reach. We deliver expert professional, field, and remote services for modern network technologies including Software-Defined Wide Area Networking, Network Functions Virtualization, Wireless Local Area Networks, Optical Networking, and Edge Networks. SPIN-OFF FROM VOYIX On September 15, 2022, NCR Voyix Corporation, formerly known as NCR Corporation (Voyix, Parent, or NCR), announced its plan to separate its businesses into two distinct, publicly traded companies, whereby NCR would execute a Spin-off to NCR shareholders of its self-service banking, network, and telecommunications and technology businesses (the Spin-off). On September 22, 2023, the Board of Directors of NCR authorized the Spin-off of Atleos to be completed on October 16, 2023. On September 27, 2023, and in connection with the Spin-off, the Company issued $1,350 million of senior secured 9.500% notes due in 2029. In addition to the senior secured notes, the Company entered into a senior secured $750 million term loan facility due in 2029 and a $500 million senior secured credit facility, which was undrawn at the Spin-off closing date. Refer to Note 5, Debt Obligations, for further details regarding the issuance of debt. The Company used the aggregate proceeds received from the issuance of senior secured notes and the term loan facility, as well as an additional term loan facility drawn prior to Spin-off and cash on-hand, to make a distribution payment of $3,003 million to Voyix in consideration for the net assets contributed to Atleos. The Spin-off was achieved by means of a pro-rata distribution of all of Atleoss common stock to Voyix's shareholders at the close of business on October 2, 2023 (Record Date) (collectively, the Distribution). Each holder of Voyix's common stock received one share of Atleoss common stock for every two shares of Voyix common stock held as of the Record Date. Upon completion of the Distribution, on October 17, 2023, the Company commenced trading as an independent public company under the ticker symbol NATL on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Following the Distribution, Voyix does not beneficially own any shares of Atleos common stock and will no longer consolidate Atleos results with any Voyix results. In connection with the Spin-off, we expect to incur one-time separation costs, which include one-time and non-recurring expenses associated with the Spin-off and stand up of functions required to operate as a stand-alone public entity. These non-recurring costs primarily relate to system implementation costs, business and facilities separation, applicable employee related costs, development of our brand and other matters. We expect the separation-related costs will continue through at least fiscal year 2024. 36 Table of Contents RELATIONSHIP WITH VOYIX In connection with the Spin-off, we entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement and various other agreements with Voyix. These agreements provide a framework for our relationship with Voyix and govern various interim and ongoing relationships between Atleos and Voyix. These agreements with Voyix are described in the section of the Information Statement titled Certain Relationships and Related TransactionsAgreements with NCR. STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS Atleos is expected to be a cash-generative business positioned to focus on delivering ATM-as-a-Service to a large, installed customer base across banks and retailers. We believe it will build on our leadership in self-service banking and ATM networks to meet global demand for ATM access and leverage new ATM transaction types, including digital currency solutions, to drive market growth. Atleos is expected to also continue shifting to a highly recurring revenue model to drive stable cash flow and capital returns to shareholders. Additionally, we plan to capitalize on opportunities presented by the acquisitions of Cardtronics plc (Cardtronics) and LibertyX to accelerate our Network business as we go to market with a more robust offering in this segment. Cardtronics is expected to accelerate our ATM-as-a-Service strategy by adding the Allpoint debit network, and LibertyX is expected to enable Atleos to provide a digital currency solutions, including the ability to buy Bitcoin and conduct cross-border remittance using Bitcoin. We also plan to continue to improve our execution to drive solid returns and to transform our business to enhance value for all shareholders. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, Atleos and its customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. NCR maintains cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures, which it regularly evaluates for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. We intend to adopt similar policies. These policies and procedures include internal notifications and engagements and, as necessary, cooperation with law enforcement. Personnel involved in handling and responding to cybersecurity events periodically undertake tabletop exercises to simulate an event. NCRs internal notification procedures include notifying the applicable NCR attorneys, which, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event, may include direct notice to, among others, NCRs General Counsel, Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Chief Privacy Officer. Company attorneys support efforts to evaluate the materiality of any incidents, determine whether notice to third parties such as customers or vendors is required, determine whether any prohibition on insider trading is appropriate, and assess whether disclosure to stockholders or governmental filings, including with the SEC, are required. NCRs internal notification procedures also include notifying various NCR Information Technology Services managers, subject matter experts in NCRs software department and NCR leadership, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event. For further information on potential risks and uncertainties, see Item 1A, Risk Factors, of the Form 10 and Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Form 10-Q, as applicable. Impacts from Geopolitical and Macroeconomic Challenges We continue to be exposed to macroeconomic pressures as a result of supply chain challenges, foreign currency fluctuations, and spikes in interest rates, commodity and energy prices as a result of geopolitical challenges, including those due in part to the war between Russia and Ukraine and the conflict between Israel and Hamas. We continue to navigate through these challenges with a sharp focus on and goal of safeguarding our employees, helping our customers and managing impacts on our supply chain. Despite the rapidly changing environment, our teams are executing at a high level and we are advancing our strategy. The recent bank failures, during the first, second and third quarters of 2023, in addition to other global macroeconomic conditions, have caused a degree of uncertainty in the investor community and among bank customers, and could significantly impact the national, regional and local banking industry and the global business environment in which Atleos operates. The Company does not believe that the circumstances of these bank failures are indicators of broader issues within the banking system. However, if there is a severe or prolonged economic downturn, it could result in a variety of risks to our business, including driving banking customers to tighten budgets and curtail spending, which would negatively impact our sales and business. 37 Table of Contents We expect that these factors will continue to negatively impact our business at least in the short-term. The ultimate impact on our overall financial condition and operating results will depend on the duration and severity of these geopolitical and macroeconomic pressures and any governmental and public actions taken in response. We continue to evaluate the long-term impact that these may have on our business model, however, there can be no assurance that the measures we have taken or will take will completely offset the negative impact. For further information on the risks posed to our business from the COVID-19 pandemic and other geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors, of the Companys Form 10 and related information statement, including the risk factor titled A major natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, or have other adverse consequences. For further information on exposures to foreign exchange risk, refer to Item 3,