Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including factors relating to: domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from the imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial services and retail industries, new tax legislation across multiple jurisdictions, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, execution of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union, uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices; the transformation of our business and shift to increased software and services revenue, as well as recurring revenue; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete in the technology industry; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; defects or errors in our products; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; the historical seasonality of our sales; tax rates and tax legislation; foreign currency fluctuations; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction savings initiatives; manufacturing disruptions, including those caused by or related to outsourced manufacturing or disruptions in our supply chain due to the Wuhan coronavirus; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligations; reliance on third party suppliers; the impact of the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in certain geographical markets; development and protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; uncertainties or delays associated with the transition of key business leaders; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims, and other matters across various jurisdictions. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. i Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS General Business and Industries Served NCR is a leading software- and services-led enterprise provider in the financial, retail, hospitality and telecommunications and technology industries. NCR is a global company that is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. NCR offers a range of solutions that help businesses of all sizes run the store, run the restaurant and run self-service banking channels. Our portfolio includes digital first offerings for banking, restaurants and retailers, as well as payments processing, multi-vendor connected device services, automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals and self-service technologies. We also resell third-party networking products and provide related service offerings in the telecommunications and technology sectors. Our solutions are also designed to support our transition to an as-a-Service company and enable us to be the technology-based service provider of choice to our customers. Company History NCR was originally incorporated in 1884 and was a publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange prior to its merger with a wholly-owned subsidiary of AT&T Corp. (AT&T) on September 19, 1991. On December 31, 1996, AT&T distributed all of its interest in NCR to its stockholders. NCR common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trades under the symbol NCR. Operating Segments As of January 1, 2019, NCR began management on an industry basis, changing from the previous model of management on a solution basis. As a result, we categorize our operations into the following segments: Banking, Retail, Hospitality and Other. This change to our segment reporting for fiscal year 2019 and future periods is further described in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. The information required by Item 1 with respect to our reportable segments and financial information regarding our geographic areas and those reportable segments can be found in Item 7 of Part II of this Report under Revenue and Operating Income by Segment as well as in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 4, Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and in Item 1A of this Report under "Multinational Operations," and is incorporated herein by reference. Products and Services We are an enterprise provider selling a portfolio of digital first software, services, hardware and payments. Our offerings fall into the following categories: Banking We offer solutions to customers in the financial services industry that help position our customers to win the digital transformation, including API-first platforms to enable customers to increase engagement, reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance loyalty. These solutions include customer-facing digital banking, branch transformation and digital connected services, and use software solutions and platforms such as a multi-vendor ATM management systems software application suite, payment processing software, fraud and loss prevention applications, cash management and video banking software, as well as related hardware including multi-function ATMs, interactive teller machines (ITMs), thin-client ATMs, cash dispensers, cash recycling ATMs and hardware for check and image processing. Retail We offer software-defined solutions to customers in the retail industry, leading with digital to connect retail operations end to end to integrate all aspects of a customers operations in indoor and outdoor settings from POS, to payments, inventory management, fraud and loss prevention applications, loyalty and consumer engagement. These solutions are designed to improve operational efficiency, selling productivity, customer satisfaction and purchasing decisions; provide secure checkout processes and payment systems; and increase service levels. These solutions include retail-oriented technologies such as comprehensive API-point of sale retail software platforms and applications, hardware terminals, self-service kiosks including self-checkout (SCO), payment processing solutions, and bar-code scanners. Hospitality We offer technology solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, serving businesses that range from a single store or restaurant to global chains and sports and entertainment venues, that are designed to improve operational efficiency, increase customer satisfaction, streamline order and transaction processing and reduce operating costs. Our solutions include software applications including payment 1 Table of Contents processing solutions for quick-service restaurants, table-service restaurants, convenience and fuel retailers and other businesses, and back-office inventory and store and restaurant management applications, including cloud-based loss prevention video technology and services for the hospitality industries. We also provide hospitality-oriented hardware products such as POS terminals, SCO kiosks, order and payment kiosks, bar code scanners, printers and peripherals. Other We offer maintenance, managed and professional services using solutions such as remote management and monitoring services, which are designed to improve operational efficiency, network availability and end-user experience, to customers in the telecommunications and technology industry. We also provide such services to end users on behalf of select manufacturers leveraging our global service capability, and resell third party networking products to customers in a variety of industries. Target Markets and Distribution Channels NCR provides solutions to customers of varying sizes in the financial, retail, hospitality and other industries, including the telecommunications and technology industry. Our Banking segment solutions primarily serve the financial industry with particular focus on retail banking, which includes traditional providers of consumer banking and financial services. These solutions also serve the retail markets through convenience banking products for retailers designed to complement their core businesses. Our financial solutions customers are located throughout the world in both developed and emerging markets. We have historically sold most of our Banking segment solutions through a direct sales channel, although a portion of revenue is derived through distributors and value-added resellers. We provide POS and self-service kiosk solutions to the retail and hospitality industries. Our Retail segment customers include department stores, specialty retailers, mass merchandisers, catalog stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets, grocery stores, drug stores, wholesalers, convenience stores, petroleum outlets and small businesses. Our Hospitality segment customers include retailers, restaurants, food service providers and sports and entertainment venues (including stadiums, arenas and cinemas) and small businesses. We also provide our self-service solutions to customers in the travel industry, including airlines and airports. POS and self-service kiosk solutions are sold through a direct sales force and through relationships with value-added resellers, distributors, dealers and other indirect sales channels. We provide service and support for our products and solutions through services contracts with our customers. We have also established managed services contracts with key customers and continue to pursue additional managed services relationships. Longer term managed services arrangements can help improve the efficiency and performance of a customers business, and also increase the strategic and financial importance of its relationship with NCR. We also service competing technologiesfor example, ToshibaTec retail technologies and Diebold Nixdorf ATMs. The primary sales channel for our services is our direct sales teams, which exist across all geographies where we operate around the world. Our services professionals provide these services directly to end customers. Competition We face a diverse group of competitors in the financial, retail and hospitality industries in which we sell our digital first portfolio of software, services and hardware. The primary competitive factors can vary by geographic area where we operate around the world, but typically include: value and quality of the solutions or products; total cost of ownership; industry knowledge of the vendor; the vendors ability to provide and support a total end-to-end solution; the vendors ability to integrate new and existing systems; fit of the vendors strategic vision with the customers strategic direction; and quality of the vendors consulting, deployment and support services. In the financial industry, our Banking segment faces a variety of competitors offering financial services and software including, among others, Fidelity National Information Services Inc., Fiserv, Inc., Q2 Holdings, Inc., Temenos AG, Alkami Technology, Inc. and ACI Worldwide, Inc. In addition, we face competition from ATM manufacturers including Diebold Nixdorf, Inc., and Hyosung TNS Inc., and ATM network operators including Cardtronics plc and Euronet Worldwide, Inc., as well as regional firms across all geographies where we operate around the world. In the retail and hospitality industries, our Retail and Hospitality segments face a variety of competitors across all geographies where we operate around the world. Our competitors vary by market segment, product, service offering and geographic area, and include Toshiba Tec Corporation, Flooid, Oracle Corporation, GK Software SE, PAR Technology Corporation, Aptos, Inc., Diebold Nixdorf, Inc., Fujitsu Limited and HP Inc., among others. In addition, we face new competitors including Toast, Inc., Revel Systems, Inc., Square, Inc., and Upserve, Inc., among others. 2 Table of Contents The primary services competitors are the companies identified above, as well as other regional and local independent services firms across all geographies where we operate around the world. We also face services competition from global enterprise technology companies including IBM Corporation, among others, as these firms continue to focus on services as a core business strategy. Research and Development We remain focused on designing and developing solutions that anticipate our customers changing technological needs as well as consumer preferences. Our expenses for research and development were $259 million in 2019 , $252 million in 2018 , and $241 million in 2017 . We anticipate that we will continue to have significant research and development expenditures in the future in order to provide a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services and to help maintain and enhance our competitive position. Information regarding the accounting and costs included in research and development activities is included in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report under "Research and Development Costs," and is incorporated herein by reference. Patents and Trademarks NCR seeks patent protection for its innovations, including improvements, associated with its software, services, hardware, solutions and developments, where such protection is likely to provide value to NCR. NCR owns approximately 1,250 patents in the U.S. and numerous other patents in foreign countries. The foreign patents are generally counterparts of NCRs U.S. patents. Many of the patents owned by NCR are licensed to others, and NCR is licensed under certain patents owned by others. As appropriate, NCR looks to monetize its patents to drive additional value from its patent portfolio. NCR also has numerous patent applications pending in the U.S. and in foreign countries. NCRs portfolio of patents and patent applications is of significant value to NCR. NCR has registered certain trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and in a number of foreign countries. NCR considers the NCR and NCR logo marks, as well as its other trademarks and service marks, to have significant value to NCR. Seasonality Our sales are historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on variability in the volume, timing and mix of sales. In addition, revenue in the third month of each quarter is typically higher than in the first and second months. Information regarding seasonality and its potential impact on our business is included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption, Operating Results Fluctuations, and is incorporated herein by reference. Manufacturing and Raw Materials In most cases, there are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize. However, there are some services and components that are purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology or other reasons. For example, we depend on computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses who provide us with critical products for our solutions. As of December 31, 2019 , NCR leverages a network of internal and third party partner facilities across the globe to manufacture its products: ATMs are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Manaus, Brazil; Budapest, Hungary; and Chennai, India and partner facilities located in Chihuahua, Mexico. SCO solutions are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Budapest, Hungary and partner facilities located in Chihuahua, Mexico and Xiamen, China. Kiosk solutions are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Budapest, Hungary; Manaus, Brazil; and Chennai, India and partner facilities in Buford, Georgia, USA. POS/Display terminals are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Budapest, Hungary and partner facilities located in Guadalajara, Mexico and Xiamen, China. Additionally, NCR outsources the manufacturing of certain printers, bar code scanners and various other retail peripherals such as keyboards and cash drawers. 3 Table of Contents Further information regarding the potential impact of these relationships on our business operations, and regarding sources and availability of raw materials, is also included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption Reliance on Third Parties, and is incorporated herein by reference. Product Backlog Backlog includes orders confirmed for products scheduled to be shipped as well as certain professional and transaction services to be provided. Although we believe that the orders included in the backlog are firm, some orders may be canceled by the customer without penalty. Even when penalties for cancellation are provided for in a customer contract, we may elect to permit cancellation of orders without penalty where management believes it is in our best interests to do so. Further, we have a significant portion of revenue derived from service-based business, which backlog information has not historically been measured. Therefore, we do not believe that our backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of revenue for any future period. However, backlog is included as a component of our remaining performance obligation to the extent we determine that the orders are non-cancelable. Employees On December 31, 2019 , NCR had approximately 36,000 employees and contractors worldwide. Environmental Matters Compliance with federal, state, and local environmental regulations relating to the protection of the environment could have a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, cash flow, financial condition, earnings or competitive position. While NCR does not currently expect to incur material capital expenditures related to compliance with such laws and regulations, and while we believe the amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements are adequate in light of the probable and estimable liabilities in this area, there can be no assurances that environmental matters will not lead to a material adverse impact on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. A detailed discussion of the current estimated impacts of compliance issues relating to environmental regulations, particularly the Fox River and Kalamazoo River matters, is reported in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. Further information regarding the potential impact of compliance with federal, state and local environmental regulations is also included in Item 1A of this Report under the caption Environmental, and is incorporated herein by reference. 4 Table of Contents Information about our Executive Officers The Executive Officers of NCR (as of February 28, 2020 ) are as follows: Name Age Position and Offices Held Frank R. Martire 72 Executive Chairman Michael D. Hayford 60 President and Chief Executive Officer Owen J. Sullivan 62 Chief Operating Officer Andre J. Fernandez 51 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer James M. Bedore 60 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Debra Bronder 62 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Adrian Button 47 Senior Vice President, Hardware Product Operations Daniel W. Campbell 59 Executive Vice President, NCR Global Sales J. Robert Ciminera 62 Executive Vice President, Global Customer Services Frank D'Angelo 74 Executive Vice President and President, NCR Banking Paul Langenbahn 51 Executive Vice President and President, NCR Commerce Beth A. Potter 60 Chief Accounting Officer Set forth below is a description of the background of each of the Executive Officers. Frank R. Martire is Executive Chairman of NCR, a position he has held since May 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Martire served as non-executive Chairman of Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS). From 2015 to 2017, he served as Executive Chairman of FIS, and from 2009 to 2015 was President and Chief Executive Officer of FIS after its acquisition of Metavante Technologies, Inc. (Metavante), a bank technology processing company. Mr. Martire previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Metavante from 2003 to 2009 and President from 2003 to 2008. Prior to that, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Call Solutions Inc. from 2001 to 2003, and President and Chief Operating Officer, Financial Institution Systems and Services Group, of Fiserv, Inc., from 1991 to 2001. Mr. Martire serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors of J. Alexanders Holdings, Inc. and is a member of the Board of Directors of Cannae Holdings, Inc. Mr. Martire became a director of NCR on May 31, 2018. Michael D. Hayford is President and Chief Executive Officer of NCR, a position he has held since April 2018. Mr. Hayford was most recently Founding Partner of Motive Partners, an investment firm focused on technology-enabled companies that power the financial services industry. From 2009 until his retirement in 2013, Mr. Hayford served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Fidelity National Information Services Inc. (FIS), a financial services technology company. Prior to joining FIS, Mr. Hayford was with Metavante Technologies, Inc. (Metavante), a bank technology processing company, from 1992 to 2009. He served as the Chief Operating Officer at Metavante from 2006 to 2009 and as the President from 2008 to 2009. From 2007 to 2009, Mr. Hayford also served on the Board of Directors of Metavante. Mr. Hayford was a member of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee of Endurance International Group Holdings, Inc. from 2013 to 2019, and was a member of the Board of Directors and Chairman of the Audit Committee of West Bend Mutual Insurance Company from 2007 to 2018. Mr. Hayford became a director of NCR on April 30, 2018. Owen J. Sullivan is Chief Operating Officer of NCR, a position he has held since July 2018. Mr. Sullivan was most recently an independent consultant, providing strategic planning, consulting and executive mentoring, and working with and investing alongside private equity firms and other investor groups. Prior to that, Mr. Sullivan was with ManpowerGroup Inc. (ManpowerGroup), a workforce and talent management solutions company, from 2003 to 2013. At ManpowerGroup, he served as President of the Specialty Brands and Experis units from 2010 to 2013, and he served as the Chief Executive Officer of the Right Management and Jefferson Wells, International, Inc. subsidiaries from 2004 to 2013 and from 2003 to 2010, respectively. Before joining ManpowerGroup, Mr. Sullivan was with Sullivan Advisors, LLC, a provider of strategic planning, consulting and executive mentoring for small to medium-sized businesses, from 2001 to 2003. Prior to that, Mr. Sullivan was with Metavante Technologies, Inc., a bank technology processing company, from 1993 to 2001 where he served in various management roles including as the President of Metavantes Financial Services Group and Enterprise Solutions Group. Mr. Sullivan served as a member of the Board of Directors of Johnson Financial Group, a bank holding company, where he was a member of its Wealth Management, Risk and Succession Committees, through 2018. Mr. Sullivan is a member of the Board of Directors of Computer Task Group, Incorporated and serves as a member of its Compensation and Audit Committees. 5 Table of Contents Andre J. Fernandez is Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NCR, a position he has held since August 2018. Mr. Fernandez was most recently with CBS Radio Inc. (CBS Radio), a company which, prior to its merger with Entercom Communications Corp., specialized in radio broadcasting along with an integrated suite of digital properties. At CBS Radio, Mr. Fernandez served as President and CEO from 2016 to 2017, and as President from 2015 to 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Fernandez was with Journal Communications Inc. (Journal Communications), a publicly-traded diversified media company with operations including television, radio, digital and publishing, from 2008 to 2015. Mr. Fernandez served as President and Chief Operating Officer at Journal Communications from 2014 to 2015, as President and Chief Financial Officer from 2012 to 2014 and as Executive Vice President, Finance & Strategy and Chief Financial Officer from 2008 to 2012. Mr. Fernandez was also a previous member of the Board of Directors of Buffalo Wild Wings Inc. and served as Chairman of its Governance Committee and as a member of its Audit Committee. James M. Bedore is Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of NCR, a position he has held since November 2018. In 2019, Mr. Bedore also became Head of Corporate Development at NCR. Prior to that, Mr. Bedore worked since 1985 as an attorney in private practice with Reinhart Boerner Van Deuren s.c. advising clients on a variety of corporate matters including mergers and acquisitions, public securities offerings on behalf of issuers and underwriters, private placements, venture capital, bank and other financing arrangements, securities compliance, reporting and disclosure obligations, corporate governance, shareholder rights and executive compensation. Debra Bronder is Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of NCR Corporation, a position she has held since July 2018. Most recently, she led Human Resources for Cardtronics, Inc., a global leader in ATM placement and transaction processing, from 2010 to 2017. Prior to that, Ms. Bronder was the Executive Vice President of Human Resources for Metavante Technologies, Inc. (Metavante), a bank technology processing company, from 1997 to 2009, and with Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (FIS) from 2009 to 2010, leading the human resources activities for Metavantes merger with FIS in 2009. Adrian Button is NCRs Senior Vice President, Hardware Products Operations, a position he has held since February 2018. From July 2017 to February 2018, Mr. Button served as NCRs Senior Vice President Global Operations. Before he joined NCR, Mr. Button spent 19 years in various management roles with different divisions of General Electric Company (GE). Most recently, Mr. Button served from January 2016 to July 2017 as Corporate Officer for GE Industrial Solutions, with oversight of the divisions supply chain and service operations across 41 global factories. Prior to that, Mr. Button served as Vice President, Turbomachinery, for GEs Oil & Gas division from January 2014 to December 2016, as General Manager, Global Operations, for GEs Oil & Gas division from March 2011 to December 2013, and in other operations and supply chain roles with GE Aviation. Daniel W. Campbell is NCRs Executive Vice President, NCR Global Sales, a position he has held since February 2018. Previously, from July 2015 to February 2018, Mr. Campbell served as a Senior Vice President and General Manager at Virtustream, Inc. (Virtustream), which he joined after it was acquired by EMC Corporation (EMC) in July 2015. With Virtustream, Mr. Campbell led the global sales integration with EMCs sales organization, built a global strategic alliances and channels organization, and co-launched Virtustream Storage Cloud, an enterprise-class cloud storage platform. Before joining Virtustream, from April 1998 to July 2015, Mr. Campbell served in a series of sales and management roles of increasing responsibility at EMC, including as Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales, Backup and Recovery Systems Divisions, and most recently as Senior Vice President, Global Specialty Sales. Before joining EMC, Mr. Campbell served in various sales and management roles with Sperry, Unisys, Motorola and Wang. J. Robert Ciminera is NCRs Executive Vice President, Global Customer Services, a position he has held since January 2018. Previously, Mr. Ciminera served as NCRs Executive Vice President, Hardware Product Operations, from January 2017 to January 2018, where he was responsible for NCRs hardware product portfolio. Before that, Mr. Ciminera served as NCRs Senior Vice President, Hardware Solutions and Global Operations from October 2015 to December 2017, as NCRs Senior Vice President, Integrated Supply Chain Operations from May 2014 to October 2015, and as NCRs Vice President, Strategic Sourcing and Chief Procurement Officer from February 2009, when he joined NCR, through May 2014. Before joining NCR, Mr. Ciminera served in various sourcing, supply chain and product management roles with Avaya, Motorola, Symbol Technologies, Lucent and AT&T. Frank DAngelo is Executive Vice President and President, NCR Banking, a position he has held since October 2018. Mr. DAngelos career spans 35 years in the financial services, digital banking and payments industries. He currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Evertec Inc., a transaction and payments processing company in Latin America and the Caribbean and is also an operating partner in Hillpath Capital, a capital investment firm. He is a past Chairman of the Electronic Funds Transfer Association and served on the Payments Advisor Counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank in Philadelphia. Previously, he was President of Monitise Americas, Inc., a provider of mobile banking, payments and commerce networks. Prior to that post, Mr. DAngelo was Executive Vice President of the Payments Solutions Group at Fidelity National Information Services Inc. and head of Payments and Digital Banking at Metavante Technologies, Inc. He also held several executive positions of a 20-year span at Diebold, including CEO of Diebold Mexico, Vice President of the Diebold Service organization, as well as Vice President of software engineering and production management. He is a United States Air Force Veteran. 6 Table of Contents Paul Langenbahn is Executive Vice President and President, NCR Commerce, a position he has held since July 2018. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of NCR from March 2018 through July 2018. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, NCR Software from January 2017 to March 2018. From April 2014 to December 2016, Mr. Langenbahn served as Senior Vice President and President, Hospitality, and before that, he served as Vice President, Global Field Operations from 2012 to 2014. Prior to joining NCR, he served in various leadership roles at Radiant Systems Inc., including as President, Radiant Hospitality Business Unit, from 2007 until the company was acquired by NCR in 2011. Beth A. Potter is NCRs Chief Accounting Officer, a position she has held since November 2019. Ms. Potter has served as the NCR Corporate Controller since 2011. From March 2007 to 2011, she served as Assistant Controller, and prior to that she served in various other leadership roles supporting NCRs finance organization. Available Information NCR makes available through its website at http://investor.ncr.com, free of charge, its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, definitive proxy statements on Schedule 14A and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to such reports and schedules, as soon as reasonably practicable after these reports are electronically filed or furnished to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The SEC website (www.sec.gov) contains the reports, proxy statements and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file or furnish electronically with the SEC. NCR will furnish, without charge to a security holder upon written request, the Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement for the 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 2020 Proxy Statement), portions of which are incorporated herein by reference. NCR also will furnish its Code of Conduct at no cost and any other exhibit at cost. Document requests are available by calling or writing to: NCRInvestor Relations 864 Spring Street NW Atlanta, GA 30308 Phone: 800-255-5627 E-Mail: investor.relations@ncr.com Website: http://investor.ncr.com NCR's website, www.ncr.com, contains a significant amount of information about NCR, including financial and other information for investors. NCR encourages investors to visit its website regularly, as information may be updated and new information may be posted at any time. The contents of NCR's website are not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K and shall not be deemed filed under the Exchange Act. 7 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations and projections, and could cause the market value of our stock to decline. You should consider these risk factors when reading the rest of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this document. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or our industry or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate or decline. Economic Pressures. Our business may be negatively affected by domestic and global economic and credit conditions. Our business is sensitive to the strength of domestic and global economic and credit conditions, particularly as they affect, either directly or indirectly, the financial, retail and hospitality sectors of the economy. Economic and credit conditions are influenced by a number of factors, including political conditions, consumer confidence, unemployment levels, interest rates, tax rates, commodity prices and government actions to stimulate economic growth. The imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial, retail and hospitality industries, new tax legislation across multiple jurisdictions, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, the execution of the United Kingdom's exit from the European Union (EU), uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices, among other things, have created a challenging and unpredictable environment in which to market the products and services of our various businesses across our different geographies and industries. A negative or unpredictable economic climate could create uncertainty or financial pressures that impact the ability or willingness of our customers to make capital expenditures, thereby affecting their decision to purchase or roll out our products or services or, especially with respect to smaller customers, to pay accounts receivable owed to NCR. Additionally, if customers respond to a negative or unpredictable economic climate by consolidation, it could reduce our base of potential customers. Negative or unpredictable global economic conditions also may have an adverse effect on our customers ability to obtain financing for the purchase of our products and services from third party financing companies or on the number of payment processing transactions which could negatively impact our operating results. Business Model. If we are unsuccessful in transforming our business model, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In recent years, we have shifted our business model to become a software- and services-led enterprise provider, focusing on increased software and services revenue, as well as recurring revenue, to enable NCR to become an as-a-Service company. Activating our strategy to create NCR-as-a-Service could negatively impact our revenue and margin as we shift toward increasing recurring revenue. Additionally, this strategy includes the shift away from perpetual license-based products that yield revenue recognized at an earlier point in time to a term license model to include a termination for convenience which could also have a negative impact on our revenue and margin. We expect to increase our capital expenditures to support our shift to NCR-as-a-Service with the focus on our strategic growth platforms, which are the offerings with the highest growth potential to accelerate the shift. Our success depends on the return on investment generated from the capital expenditures and our ability to continue to execute these strategies, while improving the Company's cost structure. Our ability to grow these businesses depends on a number of different factors including, among others, developing, deploying and supporting the next generation of digital first software and cloud solutions for the industries we serve; market acceptance of our new and existing software and cloud solutions; successful entry into the payment processing market; enabling our sales force to use a consultative selling model that better incorporates our comprehensive and new solutions; transforming our services performance, capabilities and coverage to improve efficiency, incorporate remote diagnostic and other technologies and align with and support our new solutions; managing professional services and other costs associated with large solution roll-outs; and integrating, developing and supporting software gained through acquisitions. In addition, development of these businesses may require increased capital and research and development expenses and resource allocation, and while we will seek to have the right level of investment and the right level of resources focused on these opportunities, these costs may reduce our gross margins and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. In addition, we continue to pursue initiatives to expand our customer base by increasing our use of indirect sales channels, and by developing, marketing and selling solutions aimed at the small- to medium-business market. It is not yet certain whether these initiatives will yield the anticipated benefits, or whether our solutions will be compelling and attractive to small- and medium-sized businesses. If we are not successful in growing software and services and expanding our customer base at the rate that we anticipate, we may not meet our growth and gross margin projections or expectations, and operating results could be negatively impacted. Introduction of New Solutions. If we do not swiftly and successfully develop and introduce new solutions in the competitive, rapidly changing environment in which we do business, our business results will be impacted. The development process for our solutions requires high levels of innovation from our product development teams and suppliers of the components embedded or incorporated in our solutions. We expect to increase our capital expenditures and allocate these expenditures primarily to our strategic growth platforms. In addition, certain of our solutions, including our cloud solutions, may require us to build, lease or expand, and maintain, infrastructure (such as hosting centers) to support them. The development process can be lengthy and costly, and requires us to commit a significant 8 Table of Contents amount of resources to bring our business solutions to market. In addition, our success may be impacted by safety and security technology and industry standards, such as EMV chip technology. We may not be able to anticipate our customers needs and technological and industry trends accurately, or to complete development of new solutions efficiently. In addition, contract terms, market conditions or customer preferences may affect our ability to limit, sunset or end-of-life our older products in a timely or cost-effective fashion. If any of these risks materialize, we may be unable to introduce new solutions into the market on a timely basis, if at all, and our business and operating results could be impacted. Likewise, we sometimes make assurances to customers regarding the operability and specifications of new technologies, and our results could be impacted if we are unable to deliver such technologies, or if such technologies do not perform as planned. Once we have developed new solutions, if we cannot successfully market and sell those solutions, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. Data Privacy and Cybersecurity. Cybersecurity and data privacy issues could negatively impact our business. Our products and services, including our cloud and hosted solutions as well as our end-to-end payment processing business, facilitate financial and other transactions for the customers in the industries we serve. As a result, we collect, use, transmit and store certain of the transaction and personal information of our customers and the end-users of our solutions. We also may have access to transaction and personal information of our customers and their customers through or in the course of servicing our products or third party products. Additionally, we collect, use and store personal information of our employees and the personnel of our business partners, such as resellers, suppliers and contractors, in the ordinary course of business. While we have programs and measures in place designed to safeguard this data, and while we have implemented access controls designed to limit the risk of unauthorized use or disclosure by employees and contractors, the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to this data are complex and changing, as are the underlying objectives of the attacker, like targeted business disruption or sophisticated nation-state sponsored and organized cyber-criminal activity, and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. An attack, disruption, intrusion, denial of service, theft or other breach, or an inadvertent act by an employee or contractor, could result in unauthorized access to, or disclosure of, this data, resulting in claims, costs and reputational harm that could negatively affect our operating results. We may also detect, or may receive notice from third parties (including governmental agencies) regarding potential vulnerabilities in our information technology systems, our products, or third party products used in conjunction with our products. Even if these potential vulnerabilities do not result in a data breach, their existence can adversely affect customer confidence and our reputation in the marketplace. To the extent such vulnerabilities require remediation, such remedial measures could require significant resources and may not be implemented before such vulnerabilities are exploited. As the cybersecurity landscape evolves, we may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. Like most companies, NCR is regularly the subject of attempted cyberattacks. The Company is not aware of any that have caused adverse consequences material to the Company. Most such attacks are detected and prevented by the Companys various information technology protections, including but not limited to firewalls, intrusion prevention systems, denial of service detection, anomaly based detection, anti-virus/anti-malware, endpoint encryption and detection and response software, Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) system, identity management technology, security analytics, multi-factor authentication and encryption, although there can be no assurance that our protections will always be successful. The Company has an established relationship with a cybersecurity firm, which it engages in connection with certain suspected incidents. The costs arising from those engagements, which depending on the incident may include both investigatory and remedial efforts, have not to date been material to the Company. The Company also regularly undergoes evaluation of its protections against cybersecurity incidents, including both self-assessments and expert third-party assessments, and it regularly enhances those protections, both in response to specific threats and as part of the Companys efforts to stay current with advances in cybersecurity defense. When the Company experiences a confirmed cybersecurity incident it generally performs root cause analyses and in appropriate instances will implement additional security controls based on those analyses. In 2019, the Company used approximately 10% of its overall IT budget on cybersecurity efforts. There can be no assurance that the Company or its cybersecurity consultant will be able to prevent or remediate all future cybersecurity incidents or that the cost associated with responding to any such incident will not be significant. The personal information and other data that we process and store also is increasingly subject to data security and data privacy obligations and laws of many jurisdictions, which are increasing in complexity and sophistication as data becomes more enriched and technology and the global data protection landscape evolves. These laws may conflict with one another, and many of them are subject to frequent modification and differing interpretations. The laws impose a significant compliance burden and include, for example, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act and the Brazilian General Data Protection Law that goes into effect in 2020. Complying with these evolving and varying standards could require significant expense and effort, and could require us to change our business practices or the functionality of our products and services in a manner adverse to our customers and our business. In addition, violations of these laws can result in significant fines, penalties, claims by regulators or other third parties, and damage to our brand and business. The GDPR, for example, includes fines of up to 20 million or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer for failure to comply, and grants corrective powers to supervisory authorities including the ability to impose a limit on processing of personal data. The laws also cover the transfer of personal, financial and business information, including transfers of employee information between us and our subsidiaries, across international borders. 9 Table of Contents Defects, Errors and Disruptions. Defects, errors, installation difficulties or development delays could expose us to potential liability, harm our reputation and negatively impact our business. Many of our products are sophisticated and complex, and may incorporate third-party hardware and software. Despite testing and quality control, we cannot be certain that defects or errors will not be found in our products. If our products contain undetected defects or errors, or otherwise fail to meet our customers expectations, we could face the loss of customers, liability exposure and additional development costs. If defects or errors delay product installation or make it more difficult, we could experience delays in customer acceptance, or if our products require significant amounts of customer support, it could result in incremental costs to us. In addition, our customers who license and deploy our software may do so in both standard and non-standard configurations in different environments with different computer platforms, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, which may increase the likelihood of technical difficulties. Our products may be integrated with other components or software, and, in the event that there are defects or errors, it may be difficult to determine the origin of such defects or errors. Additionally, damage to, or failure or unavailability of, any significant aspect of our cloud hosting facilities could interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings, which could cause disruption for our customers, and, in turn, their customers, and expose us to liability. If any of these risks materialize, they could result in additional costs and expenses, exposure to liability claims, diversion of technical and other resources to engage in remediation efforts, loss of customers or negative publicity, each of which could negatively impact our business and operating results. Disruptions in our data center hosting facilities could adversely affect our business. Our software products are increasingly being offered and provided on a cloud or other hosted basis through data centers operated by the Company or third parties in the United States and other countries. In addition, certain of the applications and data that we use in our services offerings and our operations may be hosted or stored at such facilities. These facilities may be vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunications failures and similar events, or to intentional acts of misconduct, such as security breaches or attacks. The occurrence of any of these events or acts, or any other unanticipated problems, at these facilities could result in damage to or the unavailability of these cloud hosting facilities. Such damage or unavailability could, despite existing disaster recovery and business continuity arrangements, interrupt the availability of our cloud offerings for our customers. We have from time to time experienced such interruptions and they may occur in the future. In addition, any such damage or unavailability could interrupt the availability of applications or data necessary to provide services or conduct critical operations. Interruptions in the availability of our cloud offerings or our ability to service our customers could result in the failure to meet contracted up-time or service levels, which could cause us to issue credits or pay penalties, or cause customers to terminate or not renew subscriptions. Interruptions could also expose us to liability claims, negative publicity and the need to engage in costly remediation efforts, any of which could impact our business and reduce our revenue. Competition. If we do not compete effectively within the technology industry, we will not be successful. We operate in the intensely competitive technology industry. This industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, disruptive technological innovation, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions, price and cost reductions, and increasingly greater commoditization of products making differentiation difficult. Our competitors include other large companies in the information technology industry, such as Fidelity National Information Services Inc., Fiserv, Inc., Temenos AG, Alkami Technology, Inc., HP Inc., Diebold Nixdorf, Inc., Nautilus Hyosung, Toshiba Tec Corporation, Oracle Corporation, Fujitsu Limited, Q2 Holdings, Inc. and ACI Worldwide, Inc., most of which have more financial and technical resources, or more widespread distribution and market penetration for their platforms and service offerings, than we do. We also compete with companies in specific industry segments, such as entry-level ATMs, POS solutions and imaging solutions. In addition, as consumers and customers in the financial, retail and hospitality industry adopt new alternative technologies such as cashless and other streamlined payment services and automated shopping solutions, we may face competition from other technology companies. Our future competitive performance and market position depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: execute our NCR as-a-Service strategy to grow our software and services revenue, as well as our recurring revenue; improve margin expansion while successfully reacting to competitive product and pricing pressures; penetrate and meet the changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; exploit opportunities in emerging vertical markets, such as telecommunications and technology; cross-sell additional products and services to our existing customer base; rapidly and continually design, develop and market, or otherwise maintain and introduce innovative solutions and related products and services for our customers that are competitive in the marketplace; 10 Table of Contents react on a timely basis to shifts in market demands and technological innovations, including shifts toward the desire of banks and retailers to provide digital first experience to their customers and the use of mobile devices in transactions and payments; compete in reverse auctions for new and continuing business; reduce costs without creating operating inefficiencies or impairing product or service quality; maintain competitive operating margins; improve product and service delivery quality; and effectively market and sell all of our diverse solutions. Our business and operating performance also could be impacted by external competitive pressures, such as consolidation, increasing price erosion and the entry of new competitors and technologies into our existing product and geographic markets. In addition, our customers sometimes finance our product sales through third party financing companies, and in the case of customer default, these financing companies may be forced to resell this equipment at discounted prices, competing with us and impacting our ability to sell incremental units. The impact of these product and pricing pressures could include lower customer satisfaction, decreased demand for our solutions, loss of market share and reduction of operating profits. Indebtedness and Repurchase Obligations. Our level of indebtedness could limit our financial and operating activities and adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs. At December 31, 2019 , we had approximately $3.59 billion of total indebtedness outstanding. Additionally, at December 31, 2019 , we had approximately $807 million of secured debt available for borrowing under our senior secured credit facility. This level of indebtedness could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest, thereby reducing the funds available for operations and future business opportunities; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding senior unsecured notes, including our change in control repurchase obligations; limit our ability to borrow additional money if needed for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes, on satisfactory terms or at all; limit our ability to adjust to changing economic, business and competitive conditions; place us at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who may have less indebtedness or greater access to financing; make us more vulnerable to an increase in interest rates, a downturn in our operating performance or a decline in general economic conditions; and make us more susceptible to adverse changes in credit ratings, which could impact our ability to obtain financing in the future and increase the cost of such financing. If compliance with our debt obligations materially limits our financial or operating activities, or hinders our ability to adapt to changing industry conditions, we may lose market share, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be negatively affected. The terms of the documents governing our indebtedness include financial and other covenants that could restrict or limit our financial and business operations. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include restrictive covenants that, subject to certain exceptions and qualifications, restrict or limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness; create liens on, sell or otherwise dispose of, our assets; engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities; make certain investments or material acquisitions; engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions; 11 Table of Contents repurchase our common stock, pay dividends or make similar distributions on our capital stock; repay certain indebtedness; engage in certain affiliate transactions; and enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments. The senior secured credit facility and the indentures also contain certain affirmative covenants, and the senior secured credit facility requires us to comply with a financial coverage ratio regarding our debt relative to our Consolidated EBITDA (as defined in the senior secured credit facility). These covenants and restrictions could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to react to market conditions or take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. Additionally, our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, including general economic and credit conditions and industry downturns. In addition, under our trade receivables securitization facility, we are required, among other things, to maintain certain financial tests relating to the three month rolling average ratio of defaults, delinquencies, dilution and days sales outstanding of the receivables pool (as such ratios and tests are described in the agreement governing our trade receivables securitization facility). If we fail to comply with these covenants and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment from the applicable lenders, an event of default would result under these agreements and under other agreements containing related cross-default provisions. Upon an event of default under the senior secured credit facility, the lenders could, among other things, declare outstanding amounts due and payable, refuse to lend additional amounts to us, or require us to deposit cash collateral in respect of outstanding letters of credit. If we were unable to repay or pay the amounts due, the lenders could, among other things, proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness, which includes certain of our domestic assets and the equity interests of certain of our domestic and foreign subsidiaries. Upon an event of default under the indentures, the trustee or holders of our senior unsecured notes could declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and payable. Upon an event of default under our trade receivables securitization facility, the lenders could, among other things, terminate the facility, declare all capital and other obligations to be immediately due and payable, replace us as servicer, take over receivables lock-box accounts and redirect the collections of domestic accounts receivable from those accounts, and exercise available rights against the domestic accounts receivable pledged by NCR Receivables, LLC. Despite our current levels of debt, we may still incur substantially more debt, including secured debt, and similar liabilities, which would increase the risks described in these risk factors relating to indebtedness and repurchase obligations. The agreements relating to our debt limit, but do not prohibit, our ability to incur additional debt, and the amount of debt that we could incur could be substantial. In addition, certain types of liabilities are not considered Indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility or the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes, and the senior secured credit facility and indentures do not impose any limitation on the amount of liabilities incurred by the subsidiaries, if any, that might be designated as unrestricted subsidiaries (as defined in the indentures). Accordingly, we could incur significant additional debt or similar liabilities in the future, including additional debt under our senior secured credit facility, some of which could constitute secured debt. In addition, if we form or acquire any subsidiaries in the future, those subsidiaries also could incur debt or similar liabilities. If new debt or similar liabilities are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. We may, from time to time, seek to opportunistically refinance, amend and/or reprice any of our debt, obtain additional debt financing, reduce or extend our debt, lower our interest payments, or otherwise seek to improve our financial position or the terms of our debt agreements. These actions may include open market debt repurchases, negotiated repurchases, or other repayments, redemptions or retirements of our debt. The amount of debt that may be borrowed or issued, refinanced, and/or repurchased, repaid, redeemed or otherwise retired, if any, will depend on market conditions, trading levels of our debt, our cash position, compliance with our debt covenants and other considerations. Any such actions could impact our financial condition or results of operations. Our cash flows may not be sufficient to service our indebtedness, and if we are unable to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, we may be required to seek other financing alternatives, which may not be successful. Our ability to make timely payments of principal and interest on our debt obligations depends on our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations, which is subject to general economic conditions, competitive pressures and certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to make these payments, we may be required to seek additional financing sources, reduce or delay 12 Table of Contents capital expenditures, sell assets or operations or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may not be able to take any of these actions, and, even if successful, these actions may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our outstanding indebtedness will depend on, among other things, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. There can be no assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the outstanding principal and interest on our debt could be declared to be due and payable, in which case we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and trade receivables securitization facility bear interest at a variable rate, which subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. All of our borrowings under our senior secured credit facility and trade receivables securitization facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on this variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. Although we may enter into interest rate swaps or similar instruments to reduce interest rate volatility in connection with our variable rate borrowings, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps or instruments will be effective. W e may not be able to raise the funds necessary to finance a required repurchase of our senior unsecured notes or our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Upon the occurrence of a change in control under the applicable indenture governing the applicable senior unsecured notes, holders of those notes may require us to repurchase their notes. On any date during the three months commencing on and immediately following March 16, 2024 and the three months commencing on and immediately following every third anniversary of such date, holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock will have the right to require us to repurchase any or all of our outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, upon certain change of control events involving the Company, holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock can require us, subject to certain exceptions, to repurchase any or all of their Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. It is possible that we would not have sufficient funds at the time that we are required to make any such purchase of notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or both). We cannot assure the holders of the senior unsecured notes and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing, to pay the repurchase price in cash with respect to any such notes or Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be repurchased upon a change in control or scheduled redemption. Our failure to repurchase the senior unsecured notes of a series when required would result in an event of default with respect to such notes which could, in turn, constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness, if any. If we are unable to repurchase all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that holders have requested to be purchased, then we are required to pay dividends on the shares not repurchased at a rate equal to 8.0% per annum, accruing daily from such date until the full purchase price, plus all accrued dividends, are paid in full in respect of such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. In addition, a change in control may constitute an event of default under our senior secured credit facility and our trade receivables securitization facility that would permit the lenders to accelerate the maturity of the borrowings thereunder and would require us to make a similar change in control offer to holders of our existing senior unsecured notes. Certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, may not constitute a change in control under the indentures governing our secured notes or the terms of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. Any rating assigned to our debt could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. Operating Results Fluctuations. Our revenue, operating results, and margins could fluctuate for a number of reasons, including those described below: Seasonality. Our sales are historically seasonal, with lower revenue in the first quarter and higher revenue in the fourth quarter of each year. Such seasonality also causes our working capital cash flow requirements to vary from quarter to quarter depending on the variability in the volume, timing and mix of sales. In addition, revenue in the third month of each quarter is typically higher than in the first and second months, particularly as our business model shifts to include more software and cloud solutions. These factors, among other things, may adversely affect our ability to manage working capital, make our forecasting process more difficult and impact our ability to predict financial results accurately. 13 Table of Contents Income Taxes. We are a United States based multinational company subject to income taxes in the United States and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are dependent on the distribution of our earnings among these different jurisdictions, and our provision for income taxes and cash tax liability could be adversely affected if the distribution of earnings is higher than expected in jurisdictions with higher statutory tax rates. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. Our deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowances, totaled approximately $996 million and $663 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or if there is a change to the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, which could result in a material increase in our effective tax rate. In addition, changes in foreign tax laws, which have become more rapid in recent years, or tax rulings could affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, in light of continuing global fiscal challenges, various levels of government and international organizations such as the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and EU are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative or regulatory action to increase tax revenue. These tax reform efforts, such as the OECD-led Base Erosion and Profit Shifting project (BEPS), are designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Although some countries have passed tax laws based on findings from the BEPS project, the final nature, timing and extent of any such tax reforms or other legislative or regulatory actions is unpredictable, and it is difficult to assess their overall effect. But, these changes could increase our effective tax rate and adversely impact our financial results. We are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the U.S. and internationally and could be subject to additional audits focusing on transfer pricing. While we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. Foreign Currency. Our revenue and operating income are subject to variability due to the effects of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar. Overall, we have exposure to approximately 50 functional currencies. We pay the majority of expenses attributable to our foreign operations in the functional currency of the country in which such operations are conducted, and in 2019 a significant portion of our revenue was generated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. As a result, significant currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations, including sales and gross margins. For example, an increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies could result in lower revenue and increased losses from currency exchange rates. We endeavor to mitigate some of the effects of currency fluctuations with our hedging strategies; however, the volatility of foreign currency exchange rates is dependent on many factors that cannot be forecasted with reliable accuracy and our derivative instruments may not prove effective in reducing our exposures. Cost/Expense Reductions. Our success in achieving targeted cost and expense reductions through formal restructuring or spend optimization programs, including the spend optimization program we announced in the fourth quarter of 2018 and executed throughout 2019 to drive cost savings through operational efficiencies, our continuous improvement programs, our performance improvement programs and other similar programs. The effectiveness of these programs depend on a number of factors, including our ability to achieve infrastructure rationalizations, drive lower component and product development costs, improve supply chain efficiencies, utilize next-generation technologies, simplify and rationalize product portfolios, and optimize the efficiency of our customer services and professional services consulting resources. If we do not successfully execute on these initiatives or if we experience delays in completing the implementation of these initiatives, our results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Manufacturing. At December 31, 2019 , NCR leveraged a network of internal and third party partner facilities across the globe to manufacture its products: ATMs are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Manaus, Brazil; Budapest, Hungary; and Chennai, India and partner facilities located in Chihuahua, Mexico. SCO solutions are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Budapest, Hungary and partner facilities located in Chihuahua, Mexico and Xiamen, China. Kiosk solutions are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Budapest, Hungary; Manaus, Brazil; and Chennai, India and partner facilities in Buford, Georgia, USA. POS/Display terminals are manufactured in NCR facilities located in Budapest, Hungary and partner facilities located in Guadalajara, Mexico and Xiamen, China. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, at December 31, 2019 , NCR outsourced the manufacturing of certain printers, bar code scanners and various other retail peripherals such as keyboards and cash drawers. In 2018, we experienced supply constraints and product quality challenges, which impacted the timely delivery of hardware products to our customers. While we have largely returned to market-competitive lead times and product quality, if these challenges were to continue or we develop or experience other problems relating to product quality or on-time delivery to customers that we are unable to quickly manage and resolve, whether due to the geographical diversity of our manufacturing base, the use of contract or outsourced manufacturing, or otherwise, we could experience business interruption that could negatively impact our business and operating results. Contractual Obligations for Professional Services. Our contracts for professional services consulting work may contemplate that services will be performed over multiple periods, especially in connection with large solution roll-outs. Our profitability under those contracts is largely a function of performing our contractual obligations within the estimated costs and time periods specified. If we exceed these estimated costs or cannot otherwise complete the contracted services within the specified periods, our profitability related to these contracts could be negatively impacted. In addition, if we are unable to maintain appropriate utilization rates for our consultants, we may not be able to sustain profitability on these contracts. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Alliances. As we selectively acquire and divest technologies, products and businesses and we begin to include or exclude, as the case may be, the financial results related to these transactions, our operating results could fluctuate materially, depending on the size, nature, structure and timing of the transactions. Underfunded Pension Obligation. At December 31, 2019 , our obligation for benefits under our pension plans was $3,128 million and our pension plan assets totaled $2,435 million , which resulted in an underfunded pension obligation of $693 million . While we rebalanced our U.S. and international plan assets in order to reduce volatility, made several discretionary contributions to our pension plans and have, from time to time, completed de-risking actions, including plan settlements, our remaining underfunded pension obligation continues to require ongoing cash contributions. Our underfunded pension obligation also may be affected by future transfers and settlements relating to our pension plans. In addition, certain of the plan assets remain subject to financial market risk, and our actuarial and other assumptions underlying our expected future benefit payments, long-term expected rate of return and future funding expectations for our plans depend on, among other things, interest rate levels and trends and capital market expectations. Further volatility in the performance of financial markets, changes in any of these actuarial assumptions (including those described in our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report) or changes in regulations regarding funding requirements could require material increases to our expected cash contributions to our pension plans in future years. See the Effects of Pension, Postemployment and Postretirement Benefit Plans and Financial Condition, Liquidity And Capital Resources sections of the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report and Note 10, Employee Benefit Plans in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information regarding the funded status of our pension plans and potential future cash contributions. Stock-based Compensation. Similar to other companies, we use stock awards as a form of compensation for certain employees and non-employee directors. All stock-based awards are required to be recognized in our financial statements based on their fair values. The amount recognized for stock compensation expense could vary depending on a number of assumptions or changes that may occur. For example, assumptions such as the risk-free rate, expected holding period and expected volatility that drive our valuation model could change. Other examples that could have an impact include changes in the mix and type of awards, changes in our compensation plans, changes in our tax rate, changes in our forfeiture rate, differences in actual results compared to managements estimates for performance-based awards or an unusually high amount of expirations of stock awards. Changes in Accounting Principles . We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to create and interpret appropriate accounting principles and guidance. Changes in accounting principles may have an adverse effect on our financial results, as well as our processes and related controls, and may retroactively affect previously reported results. For additional information regarding updated accounting principles and standards, see Item 7 of Part II of this Report and Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Activist Stockholders . While we seek to actively engage with stockholders and consider their views on business and strategy, we could be subject to actions or proposals from stockholders or others that do not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other 15 Table of Contents stockholders. Responding to these stockholders could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management. Uncertainties associated with such activities could interfere with our ability to effectively execute our strategic plan, impact customer retention and long-term growth, and limit our ability to hire and retain personnel. In addition, actions of these stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. Reliance on Third Parties. If third party suppliers upon which we rely are not able to fulfill our needs, our ability to bring our products to market in a timely fashion could be affected. There are a number of vendors providing the services and producing the parts and components that we utilize in or in connection with our products. However, there are some services and components that are licensed or purchased from single sources due to price, quality, technology, functionality or other reasons. For example, we depend on transaction processing services from Accenture, computer chips and microprocessors from Intel and operating systems from Microsoft. Certain parts and components used in the manufacturing of our ATMs and the delivery of many of our retail solutions are also supplied by single sources. In addition, there are a number of key suppliers for our businesses that provide us with critical products for our solutions. If we were unable to secure the necessary services or maintain current demand, including contract manufacturing, parts, software, components or products from a particular vendor, and we had to find an alternative supplier, our new and existing product shipments and solution deliveries, or the provision of contracted services, could be delayed, impacting our business and operating results. An outbreak of the Wuhan coronavirus began in December 2019 and efforts to contain it are ongoing as of the time of the Report. Certain of our suppliers have been impacted and we have mitigated critical supplier shortages by securing supplies from alternate sources, but it is possible the ongoing efforts to contain the virus could lead to additional disruptions in our supply chain. Although at this time there is no impact to current orders or production lead times, the extent to which the Wuhan coronavirus may impact our results is uncertain as of the date of this Report. We have, from time to time, formed alliances with third parties that have complementary products, software, services and skills. These alliances represent many different types of relationships, such as outsourcing arrangements to manufacture hardware and subcontract agreements with third parties to perform services and provide products and software to our customers in connection with our solutions. For example, we rely on Jabil Inc. to provide contract manufacturing services for our ATMs and self-service checkout solutions, primarily for our customers in the Americas. We also rely on third parties for cash replenishment services for our ATM products. These alliances introduce risks that we cannot control, such as nonperformance by third parties and difficulties with or delays in integrating elements provided by third parties into our solutions. Lack of information technology infrastructure, shortages in business capitalization, and manual processes and data integrity issues, particularly with smaller suppliers can also create product time delays, inventory and invoicing problems, and staging delays, as well as other operating issues. The failure of third parties to provide high-quality products or services that conform to required specifications or contractual arrangements could impair the delivery of our solutions on a timely basis, create exposure for non-compliance with our contractual commitments to our customers and impact our business and operating results. Also, some of these third parties have access to confidential NCR and customer data, personal data, and sensitive data, the integrity and security of which are of significant importance to the Company. Work Environment. Continuous improvement, customer experience, restructuring and cost reduction initiatives could negatively impact productivity and business results. In the past, we have undertaken restructuring plans, and, in addition, as part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our cost structure, from time to time, we shift and realign our internal organizational structure and resources. For example, in 2018, we announced our intentions to streamline our manufacturing operations by closing two manufacturing plants in the Columbus, Georgia area and another in Beijing, China, and to move the manufacturing operations at those plants to other existing NCR facilities and to current third party suppliers. These activities could temporarily result in reduced productivity levels. Also in 2018, we experienced manufacturing supply constraints and product quality challenges, which impacted the timely delivery of hardware products to our customers. While we have largely returned to market-competitive lead times and product quality, if these challenges were to continue or we develop or experience other problems relating to product quality or on-time delivery, we could experience business interruption that could negatively impact our business and operating results. We also have ongoing initiatives to improve the experience of our customers, invest in growing identified strategic growth platforms, and shift the mix of revenue in our business to software and services revenue as well as recurring revenue. We typically have many such initiatives underway. If we are not successful in implementing and managing these various initiatives and minimizing any resulting loss in productivity, or if the costs to complete these initiatives is higher than anticipated, we may not be able to achieve targeted cost savings or productivity gains, and our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. In 2018, we opened our new world headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, and have relocated our headquarters operations to this facility. From time to time we may undertake similar projects with respect to our office, manufacturing or other facilities. Implementation of relocation plans such as these could result in business disruption due to a lack of business continuity, which, among other things, could have a negative impact on our productivity and business and operating results. 16 Table of Contents If we do not retain key employees, or attract quality new and replacement employees, we may not be able to meet our business objectives. Our employees are vital to our success, including the successful transformation of the Company into a software- and services-led business. Therefore, our ability to retain our key business leaders and our highly skilled software development, technical, sales, consulting and other key personnel, including key personnel of acquired businesses, is critical. These key employees may decide to leave NCR for other opportunities, or may be unavailable for health or other reasons. In addition, as our business model evolves, we may need to attract employees with different skill sets, experience and attributes to support that evolution. If we are unable to retain our key personnel, or we are unable to attract highly qualified new and replacement employees by offering competitive compensation, secure work environments and leadership opportunities now and in the future, our business and operating results could be negatively impacted. Uncertainties or delays associated with any transition of key business leaders could also cause fluctuation in our stock price. Our ability to effectively manage our business could be negatively impacted if we do not invest in and maintain reliable technology infrastructure and information systems. It is periodically necessary to add to, replace, upgrade or modify our technology infrastructure and internal information systems. If we are unable to expand, replace, upgrade or modify such systems in a timely and cost-effective manner, especially in light of demands on our information technology resources, our ability to capture and process financial transactions and, therefore, our financial condition, results of operations, or ability to comply with legal and regulatory reporting obligations, may be negatively impacted. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. The issuance of shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock reduces the relative voting power of holders of our common stock, and the conversion and sale of those shares would dilute the ownership of such holders and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2019 , approximately 0.4 million shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were outstanding, representing approximately 9% of our outstanding common stock, including the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears payable in-kind for the first sixteen dividend payments, after which, beginning in the first quarter of 2020, dividends will be payable in cash or in-kind at the option of the Company. If we fail to timely declare and pay a dividend, the dividend rate will increase to 8.0% per annum until such time as all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full. As holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, on an as-converted basis, together with holders of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and the subsequent issuance of additional shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock through the payment of in-kind dividends, effectively reduces the relative voting power of the holders of our common stock. In addition, the conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to common stock would dilute the ownership interest of existing holders of our common stock, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock would increase the number of shares of our common stock available for public trading, and could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. Under a customary registration rights agreement, in March 2016 we registered for resale the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and in March 2017, entities affiliated with The Blackstone Group L.P. (which we refer to as the Blackstone Purchasers) offered for sale 342,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in an underwritten public offering. On September 18, 2019, NCR entered into an agreement to repurchase and convert the outstanding 512,221 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Blackstone. NCR repurchased 237,673 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for total cash consideration of $302 million . The remaining shares of Blackstone's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, including accrued dividends, were converted to approximately 9.16 million shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock may exercise influence over us. As of December 31, 2019 , the outstanding shares of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock represented approximately 9% of our outstanding common stock, including the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis. The terms of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock require the approval of a majority of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock by a separate class vote for us to: amend our organizational documents in a manner that would have an adverse effect on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; or issue securities that are senior to, or equal in priority with, the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock has rights, preferences and privileges that are not held by, and are preferential to, the rights of our common stockholders, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and may result in the interests of the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock differing from those of our common stockholders. The holders of our Series A 17 Table of Contents Convertible Preferred Stock have the right to receive a liquidation preference entitling them to be paid out of our assets available for distribution to stockholders before any payment may be made to holders of any other class or series of capital stock, an amount equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued dividends or (b) the amount that such holder would have been entitled to receive upon our liquidation, dissolution and winding up if all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock had been converted into common stock immediately prior to such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In addition, dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock accrue and are cumulative at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. If we fail to timely declare and pay a dividend, the dividend rate will increase to 8.0% per annum until such time as all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid in full. The dividends are to be paid in-kind for the first sixteen dividend payments, after which, beginning in the first quarter of 2020, dividends will be payable in cash or in-kind at the option of the Company. The holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock also have certain redemption rights or put rights, including the right to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on any date during the three months commencing on and immediately following March 16, 2024 and the three months commencing on and immediately following every third anniversary of such date, at 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued but unpaid dividends, and the right, subject to certain exceptions, to require us to repurchase all or any portion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock upon certain change of control events at the greater of (a) 100% of the liquidation preference thereof plus all accrued but unpaid dividends and (b) the consideration the holders would have received if they had converted their shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into common stock immediately prior to the change of control event. These dividend and share repurchase obligations could impact our liquidity and reduce the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, growth opportunities, acquisitions, and other general corporate purposes. Our obligations to the holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock could also limit our ability to obtain additional financing or increase our borrowing costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition. The preferential rights could also result in divergent interests between the holders of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and holders of our common stock. Multinational Operations. Our multinational operations, including in new and emerging markets, expose us to business and legal risks. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , the percentage of our revenue from outside of the United States was 50% and 52% , respectively, and we expect our percentage of revenue generated outside the United States to continue to be significant. In addition, we continue to seek to further penetrate existing international markets, and to identify opportunities to enter into or expand our presence in developing and emerging markets. While we believe that our geographic diversity may help to mitigate some risks associated with geographic concentrations of operations, our ability to manufacture and sell our solutions internationally, including in new and emerging markets, is subject to risks, which include, among others: the impact of ongoing and future economic and credit conditions on the stability of national and regional economies and industries within those economies; political conditions and local regulations that could adversely affect demand for our solutions, our ability to access funds and resources, or our ability to sell products in these markets; the impact of a downturn in the global economy, or in regional economies, on demand for our products; currency exchange rate fluctuations that could result in lower demand for our products as well as generate currency translation losses; limited availability of local currencies to pay vendors, employees and third parties and to distribute funds outside of the country; changes to global or regional trade agreements that could limit our ability to sell products in these markets; the imposition of import or export tariffs, taxes, trade policies or import and export controls that could increase the expense of, or limit demand for our products; changes to and compliance with a variety of laws and regulations that may increase our cost of doing business or otherwise prevent us from effectively competing internationally; government uncertainty or limitations on the ability to enforce legal rights and remedies, including as a result of new, or changes to, laws and regulations; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in certain countries; implementing and managing systems, procedures and controls to monitor our operations in foreign markets; changing competitive requirements and deliverables in developing and emerging markets; longer collection cycles and the financial viability and reliability of contracting partners and customers; managing a geographically dispersed workforce, work stoppages and other labor conditions or issues; 18 Table of Contents disruptions in transportation and shipping infrastructure; and the impact of civil unrest relating to war and terrorist activity on the economy or markets in general, or on our ability, or that of our suppliers, to meet commitments. In addition, as a result of our revenue generated outside of the United States, the amount of cash and cash equivalents that is held by our foreign subsidiaries continues to be significant. After the U.S. Tax Reform, in general we will not be subject to additional U.S. taxes if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise. However, we may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Alliances. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions or effectively manage alliance activities, we may not drive future growth. As part of our overall solutions strategy, we have made, and intend to continue to make, investments in companies, products, services and technologies, either through acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic alliances. Acquisitions and alliance activities inherently involve risks. The risks we may encounter include those associated with: assimilating and integrating different business operations, corporate cultures, personnel, infrastructures (such as data centers) and technologies or products acquired or licensed; the potential for unknown liabilities within the acquired or combined business; and the possibility of conflict with joint venture or alliance partners regarding strategic direction, prioritization of objectives and goals, governance matters or operations. Further, we may make acquisitions and investments in order to acquire or obtain access to new technology or products that expand our offerings. There is risk that the new technology or products, including but not limited to entry into the payment processing market, may not perform as anticipated and may not meet estimated growth projections or expectations, or investment recipients may not successfully execute their business plans. There is also risk that key employees of an acquired business may not remain with us as long as expected. In the event that these risks materialize, we may not be able to fully realize the benefit of our investments, and our operating results could be adversely affected. An acquisition or alliance, and the integration of an acquired business, may also disrupt our ongoing business or we may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired products, services or technologies into our solutions and maintain quality. Further, we may not achieve the projected synergies once we have integrated the business into our operations, which may lead to additional costs not anticipated at the time of acquisition. Circumstances associated with divestitures could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We continue to evaluate the strategic fit of our other businesses and products and may decide to sell a business or product based on such an evaluation. Despite a decision to divest a business or product, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. In addition, prospective buyers may have difficulty obtaining financing. Divestitures could involve additional risks, including: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; the need to provide significant ongoing post-closing transition support to a buyer; the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; the retention of certain current or future liabilities in order to induce a buyer to complete a divestiture; the obligation to indemnify or reimburse a buyer for certain past liabilities of a divested business; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we may encounter in divesting a business or product, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Environmental. Our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities subject us to environmental exposures. Our facilities and operations are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, and we have investigatory and remedial activities underway at a number of facilities that we currently own or operate, or formerly owned or operated, to comply, or to determine compliance, with such laws. In addition, our products are subject to environmental laws in a number of jurisdictions. Given the uncertainties inherent in such activities, there can be no assurances that the costs required to comply with applicable environmental laws will not impact future operating results. We have also been identified as a potentially responsible party in connection with certain environmental matters, 19 Table of Contents including the Fox River and Kalamazoo River matters, as further described in Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report; in Environmental Matters within Item 1 of Part I of this Report; and in Environmental and Legal Contingencies within the Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate such disclosures by reference and make them a part of this discussion of risk factors. Intellectual Property. Our continuing ability to be a leading software- and services-led enterprise provider could be negatively affected if we do not protect our intellectual property. It is critical to our strategy, and the benefits provided by our innovations and technologies, that we are able to protect and rely on the protection of our intellectual property through patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. We protect our innovations and technologies, including through intellectual property rights. To the extent we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, including through intellectual property rights, our business could be adversely impacted. Many of our offerings rely on technologies developed by others, and if we are unable to continue to obtain licenses for such technologies, our business could be adversely impacted. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We also, from time to time, receive claims from third parties regarding infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights. Whether such claims have merit, they may require significant resources to defend. If an infringement claim is successful and we are required to pay damages, or we are unable to license the infringed technology or to substitute similar non-infringing technology, our business could be adversely affected. Internal Controls. If we do not maintain effective internal controls, accounting policies, practices, and information systems necessary to ensure reliable reporting of our results, our ability to comply with our legal obligations could be negatively affected. Our internal controls, accounting policies and practices, and internal information systems enable us to capture and process transactions in a timely and accurate manner in compliance with applicable accounting standards, laws and regulations, taxation requirements and federal securities laws and regulations. Our internal controls and policies are being closely monitored by management as we continue to implement a worldwide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. While we believe these controls, policies, practices and systems are adequate to ensure data integrity, unanticipated and unauthorized actions of employees or contractors (both domestic and international), temporary lapses in internal controls due to shortfalls in transition planning and oversight, or resource constraints, could lead to improprieties and undetected errors that could impact our financial condition, results of operations, or compliance with legal obligations. Moreover, while management has concluded that the Companys internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2019 (as set forth in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting included in Item 9A of Part II of this Report), due to their inherent limitations, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements in our reported financial statements. Such limitations include, among other things, the potential for human error or circumvention of controls. Further, the Companys internal control over financial reporting is subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of a failure to remediate control deficiencies, changes in conditions or a deterioration of the degree of compliance with established policies and procedures. Contingencies. We face uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits and other related matters. In the normal course of business, we are subject to proceedings, lawsuits, claims and other matters, including, for example, those that relate to the environment, health and safety, labor and employment, employee benefits, import/export compliance, intellectual property, data privacy and security, product liability, commercial disputes and regulatory compliance, among others. Because such matters are subject to many uncertainties, their outcomes are not predictable and we must make certain estimates and assumptions in our financial statements. While we believe that amounts provided in our Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to such matters are currently adequate in light of the probable and estimable liabilities, there can be no assurances that the amounts required to satisfy alleged liabilities from such matters will not impact future operating results. Additionally, we are subject to diverse and complex laws and regulations, including those relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and reporting, environmental safety and the discharge of materials into the environment, product safety, import and export compliance, data privacy and security, antitrust and competition, government contracting, anti-corruption, and labor and human resources, which are rapidly changing and subject to many possible changes in the future. Compliance with these laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards, taxation requirements, and federal securities laws among others, may create a substantial burden on us, and substantially increase costs to our organization or could have an impact on our future operating results. Additionally, doing business on a worldwide basis requires us and our subsidiaries to comply with the laws and regulations of the U.S. government and various international jurisdictions. For example, our international operations are subject to U.S. and foreign anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which generally prohibits U.S. companies or agents acting on behalf of such companies from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business. 20 Table of Contents Our international operations are also subject to economic sanction programs administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). If we are not in compliance with such laws and regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, which may cause harm to our reputation and to our brand and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2019 , NCR operated 201 facilities consisting of approximately 5.0 million square feet in 59 countries throughout the world, which are generally used by all of NCR's operating segments. On a square footage basis, 9% of these facilities are owned and 91% are leased. Within the total facility portfolio, NCR operates 10 research and development and manufacturing facilities totaling 0.8 million square feet, 64% of which is leased. The remaining 4.2 million square feet of space includes office, repair, and warehousing space and other miscellaneous sites, and is 88% leased. NCR also owns 3 land parcels totaling 2.4 million square feet in 1 country. NCR is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. Our address at our corporate headquarters is 864 Spring Street Northwest, Atlanta Georgia, 30308, USA. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Information regarding legal proceedings is included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report as part of Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 21 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information NCR common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and trades under the symbol NCR. There were approximately 81,422 holders of NCR common stock as of February 14, 2020 . Dividends Historically NCR has not paid cash dividends and does not anticipate the payment of cash dividends on NCR common stock in the immediate future. The declaration of dividends is restricted under our senior secured credit facility and the terms of the indentures for our senior unsecured notes, and would be further subject to the discretion of NCRs Board of Directors. Stock Performance Graph The following graph compares the relative investment performance of NCR stock, the Standard & Poors MidCap 400 Stock Index, Standard & Poors 500 Information Technology Sector and the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index. This graph covers the five-year period from December 31, 2014 through December 31, 2019 . Company / Index 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NCR Corporation $ 84 $ 139 $ 117 $ 79 $ 121 S&P 500 Stock Index $ 101 $ 114 $ 138 $ 132 $ 174 S&P 500 Information Technology Sector $ 106 $ 121 $ 167 $ 167 $ 251 S&P MidCap 400 Stock Index $ 98 $ 118 $ 137 $ 122 $ 154 (1) In each case, assumes a $100 investment on December 31, 2014, and reinvestment of all dividends, if any. 22 Table of Contents Purchase of Company Common Stock On October 19, 2016, the Board approved a share repurchase program, with no expiration from the date of authorization, for the systematic repurchase of the Companys common stock to offset the dilutive effects of the Companys employee stock purchase plan, equity awards and in-kind dividends on the Companys Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Availability under this program accrues quarterly based on the average value of dilutive issuances during the quarter. On March 12, 2017, the Board approved a second share repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $300 million of the Companys common stock. On July 25, 2018, the Board authorized an incremental $200 million of share repurchases under this program. No shares were repurchased under these programs during the three months ended December 31, 2019 . As of December 31, 2019 , $194 million was available for repurchases under the March 2017 program, and approximately $446 million was available for repurchases under the October 2016 dilution offset program. The timing and amount of repurchases under these programs depend upon market conditions and may be made from time to time in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchase programs, issuer self-tender offers or otherwise. The repurchases will be made in compliance with applicable securities laws and may be discontinued at any time. The Company occasionally purchases vested restricted stock or exercised stock options at the current market price to cover withholding taxes. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 , 31,233 shares of vested restricted stock were purchased at an average price of $31.53 per share. The Companys ability to repurchase its common stock is restricted under the Companys senior secured credit facility and terms of the indentures for the Companys senior unsecured notes, which prohibit certain share repurchases, including during the occurrence of an event of default, and establish limits on the amount that the Company is permitted to allocate to share repurchases and other restricted payments. The limitations are calculated using formulas based generally on 50% of the Companys consolidated net income for the period beginning in the third quarter of 2012 through the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter, subject to certain other adjustments and deductions, with certain prescribed minimums. These formulas are described in greater detail in the Companys senior secured credit facility and the indentures for the Companys senior unsecured notes, each of which is filed with the SEC. 23 Table of Contents Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA In millions, except per share and employee and contractor amounts For the years ended December 31 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Continuing Operations (a,d) Revenue $ 6,915 $ 6,405 $ 6,516 $ 6,543 $ 6,373 Income from operations $ 611 $ 191 $ 691 $ 674 $ 571 Interest expense $ (197 ) $ (168 ) $ (163 ) $ (170 ) $ (173 ) Income tax expense (benefit) $ (273 ) $ 73 $ 242 $ 92 $ 55 Income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to NCR common stockholders $ 614 $ (36 ) $ 237 $ 283 $ (154 ) (Loss) income from discontinued operations, net of tax $ (50 ) $ (52 ) $ (5 ) $ (13 ) $ (24 ) Basic earnings (loss) per common share attributable to NCR common stockholders: From continuing operations (a,d) $ 4.13 $ (0.72 ) $ 1.05 $ 1.86 $ (0.94 ) From discontinued operations (0.41 ) (0.44 ) (0.04 ) (0.10 ) (0.15 ) Total basic earnings (loss) per common share $ 3.72 $ (1.16 ) $ 1.01 $ 1.76 $ (1.09 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to NCR common stockholders: (b) From continuing operations (a,d) $ 3.71 $ (0.72 ) $ 1.01 $ 1.80 $ (0.94 ) From discontinued operations (0.35 ) (0.44 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) (0.15 ) Total diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ 3.36 $ (1.16 ) $ 0.97 $ 1.71 $ (1.09 ) Cash dividends per share $ $ $ $ $ As of December 31 Total assets (c) $ 8,987 $ 7,761 $ 7,654 $ 7,673 $ 7,635 Total debt $ 3,559 $ 3,165 $ 2,991 $ 3,051 $ 3,252 Series A convertible preferred stock $ 395 $ 859 $ 810 $ 847 $ 798 Total NCR stockholders' equity $ 1,104 $ 395 $ 719 $ 695 $ 720 Number of employees and contractors 36,000 34,000 34,000 33,500 32,600 (a) Continuing operations excludes the costs and insurance recoveries relating to certain environmental obligations associated with discontinued operations, including those relating to the Fox River and Kalamazoo River matters. (b) See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further discussion of the diluted earnings (loss) per common share attributable to NCR common stockholders from continuing operations, discontinued operations and total. (c) Total assets increased in 2019 for the adoption of the new lease standard. See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further discussion. (d) The following income (expense) amounts, net of tax are included in income from continuing operations attributable to NCR for the years ended December 31: 24 Table of Contents In millions 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Pension mark-to-market adjustments $ (66 ) $ 44 $ (25 ) $ (78 ) $ (445 ) Transformation and restructuring costs (44 ) (182 ) (20 ) (21 ) (50 ) Acquisition-related amortization of intangibles (68 ) (68 ) (79 ) (83 ) (85 ) Acquisition-related costs (5 ) (5 ) (3 ) (5 ) (8 ) Debt refinancing costs (5 ) Valuation allowances and other tax adjustments 78 Internal reorganization and intellectual property transfer 301 U.S Tax reform and other valuation allowances (45 ) (130 ) Goodwill and long-lived asset impairment charges (174 ) Divestiture and liquidation losses (5 ) (29 ) Reserve related to subcontract in MEA (13 ) Total $ 191 $ (430 ) $ (257 ) $ (192 ) $ (630 ) 25 Table of Contents Index to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) Page Business Overview 27 2019 Overview 27 Overview of Strategic Initiatives and Trends 27 Results of Operations 29 Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources 36 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 40 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 45 26 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) BUSINESS OVERVIEW NCR is a leading software- and services-led enterprise provider in the financial, retail, hospitality, and telecommunications and technology industries. NCR is a global company that is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia. NCR offers a range of solutions that help businesses of all sizes run the store, run the restaurant and run self-service banking channels. Our portfolio includes digital first offerings for banking, restaurants and retailers, as well as payments processing, multi-vendor connected device services, automated teller machines (ATMs), point of sale (POS) terminals and self-service technologies. We also resell third-party networking products and provide related service offerings in the telecommunications and technology sectors. Our solutions are also designed to support our transition to an as-a-Service company and enable us to be the technology-based service provider of choice to our customers. As of January 1, 2019, NCR began management of its business on an industry basis, changing from the previous model of management on a solution basis. As a result, we categorize our operations into the following segments: Banking, Retail, Hospitality, and Other. Each of our segments derives its revenue in each of the sales theaters in which NCR operates. This change to our segment reporting for fiscal year 2019 and future periods is further described in Note 1, "Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. NCRs reputation is founded upon over 135 years of providing quality products, services and solutions to our customers. At the heart of our customer and other business relationships is a commitment to acting responsibly, ethically and with the highest level of integrity. This commitment is reflected in NCRs Code of Conduct, which is available on the Corporate Governance page of our website. 2019 OVERVIEW As more fully discussed in later sections of this MD&A, the following were significant themes and events for 2019 : Revenue increased 8% from the prior year, driven by growth in all segments; Revenue growth included an increase in ATM revenue of 29% ; Recurring revenue, which includes products and services under contract where revenue is recognized over time, increased 6% from the prior year and comprised 45% of total revenue; Completed the amendment and extension of our senior secured credit facility as well as refinanced the unsecured notes due 2021 which extended the weighted average debt maturity and provided improved covenants; Completed the redemption and conversion of the remaining Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by Blackstone; Completed the acquisition of D3 Technology, Inc., an online and mobile banking platform for large financial institutions; and Completed the acquisition of Zynstra, Ltd., an edge virtualization technology provider, to further enhance our next generation store architecture. OVERVIEW OF STRATEGIC INITIATIVES AND TRENDS Today's consumers expect businesses to provide a rich, integrated and personalized experience across all commerce channels, including online, mobile and in-store. NCR is at the forefront of this shift, assisting businesses of every size in their digital transformation journeys. Our mission is to be the leading software- and services-led enterprise provider in the financial, retail, and hospitality industries. To fulfill this mission, we have developed a long-term growth strategy built on taking care of our customers, improving execution of new product introductions, accelerating software and services revenue growth and executing spend optimization programs. We believe that our mission and long-term strategy position NCR to continue to drive growth, sustainable revenue, profit and cash flow, and to improve value for all of our stakeholders. To deliver on our mission and strategy, we are focused on the following main initiatives in 2020 : Customer Care - Improve the customer experience and execution of new product introductions; Stockholder Value - Accelerate profitable top-line revenue growth by investing in and shifting our revenue mix to recurring software and services revenue streams we identify as strategic growth platforms, while improving the Companys cost structure; Strategic Growth Platforms and Targeted Acquisitions - Increase capital expenditures in strategic growth platforms and target acquisitions to gain solutions that drive the highest growth and return on investment and will accelerate our NCR-as-a-Service vision; 27 Table of Contents Talent and Employee Care - Develop, reward and retain talent with competitive recruiting, training and effective incentive-based compensation programs; and Sales Enablement - Provide our sales force with top-performing and secure products packaged to target our desired revenue mix and drive customer delight and stockholder value, as well as invest in appropriate training programs to enable success. Potentially significant risks to the execution of our initiatives and achievement of our strategy include the strength of demand for the products we offer or will offer in the future consistent with our strategy and its effect on our businesses; the impact of disruptions in our supply chain and the addition of new suppliers due to the Wuhan coronavirus; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from the imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial, retail and hospitality industries, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, the execution of United Kingdom's exit from the European Union; uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices; our ability to transform our business model and to sell higher-margin software and services with recurring revenue, including our ability to successfully streamline our hardware operations; the success of our restructuring plans and spend optimization program; our ability to improve execution of new product offerings or integration of acquired product offerings; market acceptance of new solutions; competition in the information technology industry; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; defects or errors in our products; the historical seasonality of our sales; tax rates and new tax legislation; and foreign currency fluctuations. Cybersecurity Risk Management Similar to most companies, NCR and its customers are subject to more frequent and increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks. The Company maintains cybersecurity risk management policies and procedures including disclosure controls, which it regularly evaluates for updates, for handling and responding to cybersecurity events. These policies and procedures include internal notifications and engagements and, as necessary, cooperation with law enforcement. Personnel involved in handling and responding to cybersecurity events periodically undertake tabletop exercises to simulate an event. Our internal notification procedures include notifying the applicable Company attorneys, which, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event, may include direct notice to, among others, the Companys General Counsel, Ethics & Compliance Officer, and Chief Privacy Officer. Company attorneys support efforts to evaluate the materiality of any incidents, determine whether notice to third parties such as customers or vendors is required, determine whether any prohibition on insider trading is appropriate, and assess whether disclosure to stockholders or governmental filings, including with the SEC, are required. Our internal notification procedures also include notifying various NCR Information Technology Services managers, subject matter experts in the Companys software department and Company leadership, depending on the level of severity assigned to the event. For further information on potential risks and uncertainties see Item 1A "Risk Factors." 28 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table shows our results for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 2018 2017 Revenue $6,915 $6,405 $6,516 Gross margin 1,921 1,675 1,855 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 27.8% 26.2% 28.5% Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $1,051 $1,005 $923 Research and development expenses 259 252 241 Asset impairment charges 227 Income from operations $611 $191 $691 The following tables show our revenue by geographic theater for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 % of Total 2018 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Americas $ 4,174 60% $ 3,707 58% 13% 14% Europe, Middle East Africa (EMEA) 1,843 27% 1,751 27% 5% 9% Asia Pacific (APJ) 898 13% 947 15% (5)% (3)% Consolidated revenue $ 6,915 100% $ 6,405 100% 8% 10% In millions 2018 % of Total 2017 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Americas $ 3,707 58% $ 3,809 59% (3)% (2)% Europe, Middle East Africa (EMEA) 1,751 27% 1,786 27% (2)% (4)% Asia Pacific (APJ) 947 15% 921 14% 3% 4% Consolidated revenue $ 6,405 100% $ 6,516 100% (2)% (2)% The following table shows our revenue by segment for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 % of Total 2018 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Banking $ 3,512 51% $ 3,183 50% 10% 13% Retail 2,217 32% 2,097 32% 6% 7% Hospitality 843 12% 817 13% 3% 4% Other 343 5% 308 5% 11% 13% Consolidated revenue $ 6,915 100% $ 6,405 100% 8% 10% 29 Table of Contents In millions 2018 % of Total 2017 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Banking $ 3,183 50% $ 3,175 49% % 1% Retail 2,097 32% 2,169 33% (3)% (4)% Hospitality 817 13% 878 13% (7)% (7)% Other 308 5% 294 5% 5% 4% Consolidated revenue $ 6,405 100% $ 6,516 100% (2)% (2)% (1) The tables above include presentations of period-over-period revenue growth or decline on a constant currency basis. Revenue growth on a constant currency basis is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. We calculate this information by translating prior period revenue growth at current period monthly average exchange rates. We believe that examining period-over-period revenue growth or decline excluding foreign currency fluctuations is useful for assessing the underlying performance of our business and provides additional insight into historical and/or future performance, and our management uses revenue growth adjusted for constant currency to evaluate period-over-period operating performance on a more consistent and comparable basis. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered substitutes for, or superior to, period-over-period revenue growth under GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of region revenue % growth (GAAP) to revenue % growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the years ended December 31 : 2019 2018 Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Americas 13% (1)% 14% (3)% (1)% (2)% EMEA 5% (4)% 9% (2)% 2% (4)% APJ (5)% (2)% (3)% 3% (1)% 4% Consolidated revenue 8% (2)% 10% (2)% % (2)% The following table provides a reconciliation of segment revenue % growth (GAAP) to revenue % growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the years ended December 31 : 2019 2018 Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Banking 10% (3)% 13% % (1)% 1% Retail 6% (1)% 7% (3)% 1% (4)% Hospitality 3% (1)% 4% (7)% % (7)% Other 11% (2)% 13% 5% 1% 4% Consolidated revenue 8% (2)% 10% (2)% % (2)% 30 Table of Contents 2019 compared to 2018 results discussion Revenue Revenue increased 8% in 2019 from 2018 due to increases in all segments. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 2% on the revenue comparison. Banking revenue increased 10% due to a 29% increase in Automated Teller Machine (ATM) revenue driven by higher backlog conversion and higher ATM-related software as well as growth in services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 3% on the revenue comparison. Retail revenue increased 6% driven by an increase in payments, strength in self-checkout (SCO) and services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Hospitality revenue increased 3% driven by higher cloud, payments, and point-of-sale (POS) revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 27.8% in 2019 compared to 26.2% in 2018 . Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2019 included $21 million related to transformation and restructuring costs and $24 million related to amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $102 million related to transformation and restructuring costs and $23 million related to amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Excluding these items, gross margin as a percentage of revenue increased from 28.1% to 28.4% due to growth in the Banking and Retail segments primarily driven by improved hardware profitability partially offset by declines in the Hospitality segment. 2018 compared to 2017 results discussion Revenue Revenue decreased 2% in 2018 from 2017 due to declines in Retail and Hospitality partially offset by a slight increase in Banking. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have an impact on the revenue comparison. Banking revenue increased slightly due to increases in software and services revenue offset by a decrease in ATM revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Retail revenue decreased 3% from 2017 driven by declines in SCO and software license revenue partially offset by growth in services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had a favorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Hospitality revenue decreased 7% primarily due to declines in hardware revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations did not have an impact on the revenue comparison. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue was 26.2% in 2018 compared to 28.5% in 2017 . Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2018 included $102 million related to transformation and restructuring costs and $23 million related to amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2017 included $11 million related to transformation and restructuring costs and $50 million related to amortization of acquisition related intangible assets. Excluding these items, gross margin as a percentage of revenue decreased from 29.4% to 28.1% . Excluding these items, gross margin as a percentage of revenue declined mainly due to increased costs associated with alleviating supply chain constraints which were largely resolved by the end of 2018 as we executed our manufacturing network redesign strategy. Effects of Pension, Postemployment, and Postretirement Benefit Plans NCR's income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31 was impacted by certain employee benefit plans as reflected in the table below: 31 Table of Contents In millions 2019 2018 2017 Pension (benefit) expense $94 $(31) $36 Postemployment expense 29 40 24 Postretirement (benefit) (4) (4) (3) Total expense $119 $5 $57 In 2019 , pension expense was $94 million compared to pension benefit of $31 million in 2018 and pension expense of $36 million in 2017 . In 2019 , pension expense included actuarial losses of $75 million compared to actuarial gains of $45 million in 2018 and actuarial losses of $28 million in 2017 . Actuarial losses in 2019 were primarily due to a decrease in the discount rates. Actuarial gains in 2018 were due to an increase in discount rates as well as a favorable impact from a mortality update in the United Kingdom. Discount rates in 2017 remained consistent with 2016 and actuarial losses in 2017 were primarily due to a mortality update in the United States. The components of pension, postemployment and postretirement, other than service cost, are included in other income (expense), net for all periods presented. Service cost is included within the income statement line items within income from operations as other employee compensation costs arising from service rendered during the periods presented. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $1,051 million in 2019 , up from $1,005 million in 2018 . As a percentage of revenue, these expenses were 15.2% in 2019 and 15.7% in 2018 . In 2019 , selling, general and administrative expenses included $31 million of transformation and restructuring costs, $62 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $3 million of acquisition-related costs. In 2018 , selling, general and administrative expenses included $67 million of transformation and restructuring costs, $62 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $6 million of acquisition-related costs. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of revenue from 13.6% in 2018 to 13.8% in 2019 due to increases in employee-related and real estate expenses. Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $1,005 million in 2018 , up from $923 million in 2017 . As a percentage of revenue, these expenses were 15.7% in 2018 and 14.2% in 2017 . In 2018 , selling, general, and administrative expenses included $67 million of transformation and restructuring costs, $62 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $6 million of acquisition-related costs. In 2017 , selling, general, and administrative expenses included $14 million of transformation and restructuring costs, $65 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and $5 million of acquisition-related costs. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses increased as a percentage of revenue from 12.9% in 2017 to 13.6% in 2018 due to continued investment in our business. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses were $259 million in 2019 , up from $252 million in 2018 . As a percentage of revenue, these costs were 3.7% in 2019 and 3.9% in 2018 . In 2019 , research and development expenses included $6 million of costs related to our transformation and restructuring costs. In 2018 , research and development expenses included $10 million of transformation and restructuring costs. After considering this item, research and development expenses decreased slightly as a percentage of revenue from 3.8% in 2018 to 3.7% in 2019 due to increased discipline for investments in our strategic growth platforms. Research and development expenses were $252 million in 2018 , up from $241 million in 2017 . As a percentage of revenue, these costs were 3.9% in 2018 and 3.7% in 2017 . In 2018 , research and development expenses included $10 million of transformation and restructuring costs. In 2017 , research and development expenses included $4 million of transformation costs. After considering this item, research and development expenses increased slightly as a percentage of revenue from 3.6% in 2017 to 3.8% in 2018 . Asset Impairment Charges In 2019 , there were no significant asset impairment charges recorded. In 2018 , asset impairment charges were $227 million which included a $146 million impairment of goodwill under our previous segment structure, which was assigned to the Hardware reporting unit and a $37 million impairment charge related to long-lived assets held and used in our Hardware operations. Refer to Note 5, "Goodwill and Purchased Intangible Assets" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for additional discussion. Additionally, in 2018 , we recorded $44 million for the write-off of certain internal and external use software capitalization projects that were no longer considered strategic based on review by the new management team and as a result, the projects have been abandoned. In 2017 , there were no significant asset impairment charges recorded. 32 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense was $197 million in 2019 compared to $168 million in 2018 and $163 million in 2017 . Interest expense in all years was primarily related to the Company's senior unsecured notes and borrowings under the Company's senior secured credit facility. The increase from 2018 to 2019 is due to higher average outstanding principal balances during 2019 as well as the write-off of $7 million of deferred financing fees as a result of the debt refinancing completed during 2019. Refer to Note 7, "Debt Obligations" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for additional discussion. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense), net was expense of $73 million in 2019 , income of $16 million in 2018 and expense of $46 million in 2017 , with the components reflected in the following table: In millions 2019 2018 2017 Interest income $5 $5 $3 Foreign currency fluctuations and foreign exchange contracts (23) (26) (26) Bank-related fees (7) (8) (8) Employee benefit plans (82) 45 (15) Gain on entity liquidations 37 Other, net (3) Other income (expense), net $(73) $16 $(46) Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was (80)% in 2019 , 187% in 2018 , and 50% in 2017 . During 2019 , our tax rate was impacted by the transfer of certain intangible assets among our wholly-owned subsidiaries, resulting in a variety of tax effects including the establishment of deferred tax assets, recognition of tax gains and losses and other deferred tax adjustments. In total, these tax impacts created a net tax benefit associated with the intangible asset transfer of $264 million . Our tax rate was also impacted by foreign valuation allowance releases of $74 million . During 2018 , our tax rate was impacted by lower income before tax as well as our final assessment of the impact as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 enacted on December 22, 2017 ("U.S. Tax Reform"). We filed tax method changes that resulted in lower deferred tax assets subject to the downward rate remeasurement, and we recorded a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets related to foreign tax credits not able to be utilized as a result of U.S. Tax Reform. The net impact of these adjustments was an income tax expense of $37 million . During 2017 , our tax rate was impacted by a $130 million provisional expense primarily related to the application of the newly enacted 21% corporate income tax rate to our net U.S. deferred income tax assets and the repatriation tax instituted with the U.S. Tax Reform. While we are subject to numerous federal, state and foreign tax audits, we believe that appropriate reserves exist for issues that might arise from these audits. Should these audits be settled, the resulting tax effect could impact the tax provision and cash flows in future periods. During 2020 , the Company expects to resolve certain tax matters related to U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. These resolutions could have a material impact on the effective tax rate in 2020 . We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The determination as to whether a deferred tax asset will be realized is made on a jurisdictional basis and is based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence. This evidence includes historical taxable income/loss, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversal of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Loss from Discontinued Operations In 2019 , the loss from discontinued operations was $50 million , net of tax, primarily related to updates in estimates and assumptions for the Fox River reserve, a settlement agreement entered into related to the Kalamazoo environmental matter as well as anticipated future disposal costs related to an environmental matter in Japan. In 2018 , the loss from discontinued operations was $52 million , net of tax, primarily related to updates in estimates and assumptions for the Fox River reserve, a ruling on the Kalamazoo environmental matter as well as audit settlements partially related to Teradata. 33 Table of Contents In 2017 , the loss from discontinued operations was $5 million , net of tax, primarily related to updates in estimates and assumptions for the Fox River reserve partially offset by insurance recoveries received during the year. Revenue and Operating Income by Segment As described in Note 4, Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, the Company manages and reports its businesses in the following segments: Banking - We offer solutions to enable customers in the financial services industry to reduce costs, generate new revenue streams and enhance customer loyalty. These solutions include a comprehensive line of ATM and payment processing hardware and software; cash management and video banking software and customer-facing digital banking services; and related installation, maintenance, and managed and professional services. Retail - We offer solutions to customers in the retail industry designed to improve selling productivity and checkout processes as well as increase service levels. These solutions primarily include retail-oriented technologies, such as POS terminals and POS software; a retail software platform with a comprehensive suite of retail software applications; innovative self-service kiosks, such as SCO; as well as bar-code scanners. We also offer installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. Hospitality - We offer technology solutions to customers in the hospitality industry, serving businesses that range from a single store or restaurant to global chains and sports and entertainment venues. Our solutions include POS hardware and software solutions, installation, maintenance, managed and professional services as well as payment processing solutions. Other - This category includes telecommunications and technology solutions where we offer maintenance as well as managed and professional services for third-party hardware provided to select manufacturers who value and leverage our global service capability. Each of these segments derives its revenue by selling in the sales theaters in which NCR operates. Segments are measured for profitability by the Companys chief operating decision maker based on revenue and segment operating income. For purposes of discussing our operating results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain non-operational items from segment operating income, consistent with the manner by which management reviews each segment, evaluates performance, and reports our segment results under GAAP. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by NCR management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 4, Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. In the segment discussions below, we have disclosed the impact of foreign currency fluctuations as it relates to our segment revenue due to its significance. Banking Segment The following table presents the Banking revenue and segment operating income for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 2018 2017 Revenue $3,512 $3,183 $3,175 Operating income $514 $412 $421 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 14.6% 12.9% 13.3% Banking revenue increased 10% in 2019 compared to 2018 due to a 29% increase in ATM revenue driven by higher backlog conversion and higher ATM-related software as well as growth in services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 3% on the revenue comparison. Banking revenue increased slightly in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by an increase in hardware maintenance and cloud revenue offset by a 3% decline in ATM revenue. While there were supply chain constraints throughout the year, by the end of the year, the constraints were largely resolved and our overall plan to improve ATM manufacturing operations were progressing with strong production levels exiting the year. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Operating income increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily driven by higher volume and a favorable mix of revenue with improved hardware profitability. Operating income decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily driven by a decrease in ATM volume and the 34 Table of Contents impact of increased costs associated with alleviating supply chain constraints partially offset by a favorable impact from services productivity initiatives and higher cloud revenue. Retail Segment The following table presents the Retail revenue and segment operating income for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 2018 2017 Revenue $2,217 $2,097 $2,169 Operating income $144 $142 $231 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 6.5% 6.8% 10.7% Retail revenue increased 6% in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily driven by an increase in payments, SCO and services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Retail revenue decreased 3% in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily driven by a decline in SCO revenues of 15% and software license revenue partially offset by growth in services revenue. SCO revenue decreased due to the timing of customer roll-outs in the current year. Foreign currency fluctuations had a favorable impact of 1% in the year-over-year comparison. Operating income slightly increased in 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to higher software and services revenue and improved hardware profitability. Operating income decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 primarily due to lower revenue as well as the impact of increased costs associated with alleviating supply chain constraints. Hospitality Segment The following table presents the Hospitality revenue and segment operating income for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 2018 2017 Revenue $843 $817 $878 Operating income $56 $85 $140 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 6.6% 10.4% 15.9% Hospitality revenue increased 3% in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by an increase in cloud, payments and POS revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Hospitality revenue decreased 7% in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by a decrease in hardware revenue due to several large customer roll-outs in the prior year and lower software license revenue offset by an increase in cloud and services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had no impact on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by several large installations in the prior year, an unfavorable mix of revenue as well as increased investment in product support and payments. Operating income decreased in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by lower revenue and the impact of increased cost associated with improving the supply chain constraints. 35 Table of Contents Other Segment The following table presents the Other revenue and operating income for the years ended December 31 : In millions 2019 2018 2017 Revenue $343 $308 $294 Operating income $44 $49 $48 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 12.8% 15.9% 16.3% Other revenue increased 11% in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by an increase in services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had an unfavorable impact of 2% on the revenue comparison. Other revenue increased 5% in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by an increase in hardware revenue as well as growth in services revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations had a favorable impact of 1% on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in 2019 compared to 2018 driven by an unfavorable mix of revenue partially offset by the increase in revenue. Operating income slightly increased in 2018 compared to 2017 driven by an increase in revenue partially offset by an unfavorable product mix. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES In the year ended December 31, 2019 , cash provided by operating activities was $628 million and in the year ended December 31, 2018 cash provided by operating activities was $572 million . The increase was due to higher earnings partially offset by the timing of working capital requirements. NCRs management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations, less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, less additions to capitalized software plus discretionary pension contributions and settlements (if any). Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP, and therefore NCRs definition of this measure may differ from that of other companies. We believe free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flows from the Companys continuing and discontinued operations to the capital that is spent and to improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and investments, repurchase of NCR stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below reconciles net cash provided by (used in) operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP measure, to NCRs non-GAAP measure of free cash flow for the years ended December 31: In millions 2019 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $628 $572 $752 Capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment (91) (143) (128) Additions to capitalized software (238) (170) (166) Net cash used in discontinued operations (24) (36) (8) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $275 $223 $450 In 2019 , net cash provided by operating activities increased $56 million , and net cash used in discontinued operations decreased $12 million , which contributed to a net increase in free cash flow of $52 million in comparison to 2018 . Additionally, capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment decreased $52 million primarily due to expenditures for our new global headquarters completed in the previous period. Additions to capitalized software increased $68 million due to continued investment in our strategic growth platforms. The net cash used in discontinued operations in 2019 decreased $12 million in comparison to 2018 primarily due to decreased remediation spend associated with the Fox River environmental matters in 2019 . In 2018 , net cash provided by operating activities decreased $180 million , and net cash used in discontinued operations increased $28 million, which contributed to a net decrease in free cash flow of $227 million in comparison to 2017 . Additionally, capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment increased $15 million primarily due to expenditures related to the new global headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia. Additions to capitalized software increased $4 million due to continued investment in software solution enhancements. The 36 Table of Contents net cash used in discontinued operations in 2018 increased $28 million in comparison to 2017 primarily due to increased remediation spend associated with the Fox River environmental matter in 2018 . Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Our other investing activities primarily include business acquisitions, and investments as well as proceeds from the sales of property, plant and equipment. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we completed six acquisitions for $203 million , which included the acquisition of D3 Technology, Inc., Zynstra, Ltd. as well as several local Hospitality resellers. Our financing activities include borrowings and repayments of credit facilities and notes. During the year ended December 31, 2019 , we amended and restated our senior secured credit facility which resulted in the repayment of the term loan under the prior facility of $759 million and proceeds from the term loan under the new facility of $750 million . Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2019 , we issued new senior unsecured notes for an aggregate principal amount of $1 billion and redeemed in full the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes and the $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior unsecured notes. In the year ended December 31, 2019 , we paid $32 million of debt issuance fees related to these transactions. Financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2019 also included the redemption of the outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Blackstone for $302 million , the repurchase of our common stock for a total of $96 million , proceeds from stock employee plans of $16 million and tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested of $29 million . Financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2018 included the repurchase of our common stock for a total of $210 million , proceeds from employee stock plans of $20 million and tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested of $36 million . Financing activities during the year ended December 31, 2017 included the repurchase of our common stock for a total of $350 million , proceeds from employee stock plans of $15 million and tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested of $31 million . Long Term Borrowings On August 28, 2019, the Company entered into an amended and restated senior secured credit facility and refinanced the long term facility and revolving credit facility thereunder. The senior secured credit facility consisted of a term loan facility with an aggregate principal commitment of $750 million , of which $748 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2019 . Additionally, the senior secured credit facility provides for a five-year revolving credit facility with an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion , of which $265 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2019 . Loans under the revolving credit facility are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros and Pound Sterling. The revolving credit facility also allows a portion of the availability to be used for letters of credit, and as of December 31, 2019 , outstanding letters of credit were $28 million . As of December 31, 2018 , the outstanding principal balance of the term loan facility was $759 million and the outstanding balance on the revolving facility was $120 million . On August 21, 2019, the Company issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior unsecured notes due in 2027 and $500 million aggregate principal amount 6.125% senior unsecured notes due in 2029. On September 7, 2019, the Company redeemed in full the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes that were due in 2021. On December 15, 2019, the Company redeemed in full the $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% senior unsecured notes that were due in 2021. As of December 31, 2019 , we had outstanding $700 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $600 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2022, $500 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.750% senior unsecured notes due in 2027 and $500 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.125% senior unsecured notes due in 2029. In November 2019, the Company amended its trade receivables securitization facility (the A/R Facility) to increase the maximum commitment made available under the Facility and extended the maturity date to November 2021. The amendment also included other modifications including the scope of receivables subject to the facility and related eligibility requirements, the adoption of a new benchmark for determining overnight funding rates and the fees and interest payable to the agent and lenders party thereto. The A/R Facility now provides for up to $300 million in funding based on the availability of eligible receivables and other customary factors and conditions. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , the Company had $270 million and $100 million , respectively, outstanding under the facility. See Note 7, "Debt Obligations" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information on the senior secured credit facility, the senior unsecured notes and the trade receivables securitization facility. Employee Benefit Plans We expect to make pension, postemployment and postretirement plan contributions of approximately $78 million in 2020 . See Note 10, Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for additional discussion on our pension, postemployment and postretirement plans. 37 Table of Contents Transformation and Restructuring Initiatives In 2019, we successfully executed our spend optimization program to drive cost savings through operational efficiencies to generate at least $100 million of savings. This initiative created efficiencies in our corporate functions, reduced spending in non-strategic areas and limited discretionary spending. We incurred a pre-tax charge of $58 million in 2019 with a cash impact of $44 million . Additionally , during 2020, as we execute our transition to NCR as-a-Service, our efforts will be centered around improving our organizational design and driving improved efficiencies. The primary areas of focus include our offerings, go to market strategy and support and delivery model. We expect to achieve $90 million annualized run-rate savings by year-end 2020 with $40 million of realized savings in 2020. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On December 4, 2015, NCR issued 820,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to certain entities affiliated with the Blackstone Group L.P. (collectively, Blackstone) for an aggregate purchase price of $820 million , or $1,000 per share, pursuant to an Investment Agreement between the Company and Blackstone, dated November 11, 2015. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company incurred direct and incremental expenses of $26 million . These direct and incremental expenses reduced the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and will be accreted through retained earnings as a deemed dividend from the date of issuance through the first possible known redemption date, March 16, 2024. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears and payable in-kind for the first sixteen dividend payments, after which, beginning in the first quarter of 2020, dividends will be payable in cash or in-kind at the option of the Company. Under the Investment Agreement, Blackstone agreed not to sell or otherwise transfer its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or any shares of common stock issued upon conversion thereof) without the Companys consent until June 4, 2017. In March 2017, we provided Blackstone with an early release from this lock-up, allowing Blackstone to sell approximately 49% of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and in return, Blackstone agreed to amend the Investment Agreement to extend the lock-up on the remaining 51% of its shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for six months until December 1, 2017. In connection with the early release of the lock-up, Blackstone offered for sale 342,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in an underwritten public offering. In addition, Blackstone converted 90,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock and we repurchased those shares of common stock for $48.47 per share. The underwritten offering and the stock repurchase were consummated on March 17, 2017. On September 18, 2019, NCR entered into an agreement to repurchase and convert the outstanding 512,221 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Blackstone. NCR repurchased 237,673 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for total cash consideration of $302 million . The remaining shares of Blackstone's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, including accrued dividends, were converted to approximately 9.16 million shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share. This transaction retires all of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock owned by Blackstone. During the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , the Company paid dividends-in-kind of $43 million and $46 million respectively, associated with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , the Company had accrued dividends of $1 million and $3 million , respectively. There were no cash dividends declared in the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 . The remaining Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holders at any time into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share, or a conversion rate of 33.333 shares of common stock per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2019 and 2018 , the maximum number of common shares that could be required to be issued upon conversion of the outstanding shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was 13.3 million and 29.0 million shares, respectively, which would represent approximately 9% and 20% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2019 and 2018 including the preferred shares on an as-converted basis. Cash and Cash Equivalents Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries were $475 million and $443 million at December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. As a result of U.S. Tax Reform, including the repatriation tax, in general we will not be subject to additional U.S. taxes if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise. However, we may be subject to foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. Summary As of December 31, 2019 , our cash and cash equivalents totaled $509 million and our total debt was $3.59 billion . Our borrowing capacity under our senior secured credit facility was $807 million at December 31, 2019 . Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, and the competitive environment in our industry, and is 38 Table of Contents subject to the business and other risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of this Report. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of our credit facilities, we may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity based on our current cash position, cash flows from operations and existing financing to meet our expected pension, postemployment and postretirement plan contributions, remediation payments related to environmental matters, debt servicing obligations, payments related to transformation initiatives, and our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Contractual Obligations In the normal course of business, we enter into various contractual obligations that impact, or could impact, the liquidity of our operations. The following table and discussion outlines our material obligations as of December 31, 2019 on an undiscounted basis, with projected cash payments in the years shown: In millions Total Amounts 2020 2021-2022 2023-2024 2025 & Thereafter All Other Debt obligations $ 3,591 $ 15 $ 885 $ 980 $ 1,711 $ Interest on debt obligations 1,063 186 358 242 277 Estimated environmental liability payments 117 42 31 24 20 Lease obligations 733 129 182 102 320 Purchase obligations 1,128 1,076 44 8 Uncertain tax positions 92 92 Total obligations $ 6,724 $ 1,448 $ 1,500 $ 1,356 $ 2,328 $ 92 For purposes of this table, we used interest rates as of December 31, 2019 to estimate the future interest on debt obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and have assumed no voluntary prepayments of existing debt. See Note 7, "Debt Obligations" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for additional disclosure related to our debt obligations and the related interest rate terms. The estimated environmental liability payments included in the table of contractual obligations shown above are related to the Fox River, Kalamazoo and Ebina environmental matters. The amounts shown are our expected payments, net of the payment obligations of co-obligors and an estimate for payments to be received from indemnification parties. For additional information, refer to Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Our lease obligations are primarily for future rental amounts for our world headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, as well as for certain sales and manufacturing facilities in various domestic and international locations and leases related to equipment and vehicles. Purchase obligations represent committed purchase orders and other contractual commitments for goods or services. The purchase obligation amounts were determined through information in our procurement systems and payment schedules for significant contracts. Included in the amounts are committed payments in relation to the long-term service agreement with Accenture under which NCRs transaction processing activities and functions are performed. We have a $92 million liability related to our uncertain tax positions. Due to the nature of the underlying liabilities and the extended time often needed to resolve income tax uncertainties, we cannot make reliable estimates of the amount or timing of cash payments that may be required to settle these liabilities. For additional information, refer to Note 8, "Income Taxes" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Our U.S. and international employee benefit plans, which are described in Note 10, Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, could require significant future cash payments. We expect mandatory contributions to our U.S. pension plan could be required beginning in 2021 based on current funding requirements and assuming the Company does not complete any actions, including, but not limited to, a pre-fund or de-risking action. The funded status of NCRs U.S. pension plan is an underfunded position of $577 million as of December 31, 2019 compared to an underfunded position of $494 million as of December 31, 2018 . Our international retirement plans were in an underfunded position of $116 million as of December 31, 2019 , as compared to an underfunded position of $139 million as of December 31, 2018 . The increase in our underfunded position is primarily attributable to a decrease in discount rates. Contributions to international pension plans are expected to be approximately $26 million in 2020 . 39 Table of Contents We also have product warranties that may affect future cash flows. These items are not included in the table of obligations shown above, but are described in detail in Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. Our senior secured credit facility and the indentures for our senior unsecured notes include affirmative and negative covenants that restrict or limit our ability to, among other things, incur indebtedness; create liens on assets; engage in certain fundamental corporate changes or changes to our business activities; make investments; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; engage in sale-leaseback or hedging transactions; pay dividends or make similar distributions; repay other indebtedness; engage in certain affiliate transactions; or enter into agreements that restrict our ability to create liens, pay dividends or make loan repayments. Our senior secured credit facility also includes financial covenants that require us to maintain: a consolidated leverage ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter, not to exceed (i) in the case of any fiscal quarter ending on or prior to March 31, 2021, (a) the sum of 4.50 and an amount (not to exceed 0.50 ) to reflect debt used to reduce NCRs unfunded pension liabilities to (b) 1.00 , and (ii) in the case of any fiscal quarter ending after March 31, 2021 and on or prior to March 31, 2023, (a) the sum of 4.25 and an amount (not to exceed 0.50 ) to reflect debt used to reduce NCRs unfunded pension liabilities to (b) 1.00 ; and (iii) in the case of any fiscal quarter ending after March 31, 2023, (a) the sum of 4.00 and an amount (not to exceed 0.50 ) to reflect debt used to reduce our unfunded pension liabilities to (b) 1.00 . The Company has the option to elect to increase the maximum permitted leverage ratio by 0.25 in connection with the consummation of any material acquisition (as defined in the senior secured credit facility) for four fiscal quarters, but in no event will the maximum permitted leverage ratio, inclusive of all increases, exceed 4.75 to 1.00. At December 31, 2019 , the maximum consolidated leverage ratio under the Senior Secured Credit Facility was 4.75 to 1.00. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant contractual obligations not fully recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets or fully disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We have no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by SEC Regulation S-K Item 303(a)(4)(ii). See Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for additional information on guarantees associated with our business activities. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. In connection with the preparation of these financial statements, we are required to make assumptions, estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosure of contingent liabilities. These assumptions, estimates and judgments are based on historical experience and are believed to be reasonable at the time. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of judgment. Our critical accounting policies are those that require assumptions to be made about matters that are highly uncertain. Different estimates could have a material impact on our financial results. Judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of these policies and estimates may result in materially different amounts being reported under different conditions or circumstances. Our management continually reviews these assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and are materially correct. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require significant management judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not produce a materially different result. The significant accounting policies and estimates that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results are discussed in the paragraphs below. Our senior management has reviewed these critical accounting policies and related disclosures with our independent registered public accounting firm and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, which contains additional information regarding our accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP. Revenue Recognition The Company records revenue when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied by transferring control of a promised good or service to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for products and services. The Company evaluates the transfer of control primarily from the customers perspective where the customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits from that good or service. The Company does not adjust the transaction price for taxes collected from customers, as those amounts are netted against amounts remitted to government authorities. 40 Table of Contents NCR frequently enters contracts that include multiple distinct performance obligations, including hardware, software, professional consulting services, installation services and maintenance support services. A promise to a customer is considered distinct when the product or service is both capable of being distinct, and distinct in the context of the contract. For these arrangements, the Company allocates the transaction price, at contract inception, to each distinct performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. The primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the price that the Company charges for that good or service when the Company sells it separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. For hardware products, control is generally transferred when the customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain substantially all of the remaining benefits of the products, which generally coincides with when the customer has assumed title and risk of loss of the goods sold. In certain instances, customer acceptance is required prior to the passage of title and risk of loss of the delivered products. In such cases, revenue is not recognized until the customer acceptance is obtained. Delivery, acceptance, and transfer of title and risk of loss generally occur in the same reporting period. NCR's customers may request that delivery and passage of title and risk of loss occur on a bill and hold basis. Hardware products may also be provided as a service when included in a package sold with software and services. In these instances, revenue is recognized in accordance with the lease accounting standard and depending on the terms and conditions included in the contract may be either sales-type leases or operating leases. Revenue from hardware sales-type leases is recognized at the beginning of the lease term and revenue from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Software products may be sold as perpetual licenses, term-based licenses and cloud-enabled, software as a service (SaaS). Both perpetual and term-based license revenue are recognized at a point in time when control transfers to the customer and reported within product revenue. Control is typically transferred when the customer takes possession of, or has complete access to, the software. Revenue from term license software is recognized for the committed term of the contract (which is typically one month to one year due to customer termination rights). If the amount of consideration the Company expects to be paid in exchange for the licenses depends on customer usage, revenue is recognized when the usage occurs. Cloud-enabled SaaS primarily consists of fees to provide our customers access to our platform and cloud-based applications. Revenue from SaaS contracts is recognized as variable consideration directly allocated based on customer usage or on a ratable basis over the contract term beginning on the date that our service is made available to the customer. SaaS is reported as part of our services revenue. The Company sells some product solutions that include a combination of cloud-enabled SaaS and on-premise term-based software licenses. Significant judgment is required to determine if the products and services represent distinct promises to the customer or if they should be combined into one performance obligation. When they are combined into one performance obligation, revenue is recognized ratably over the subscription period for which the SaaS is provided. In addition to SaaS, our services revenue includes professional consulting, installation and maintenance support. Professional consulting primarily consists of software implementation, integration, customization and optimization services. Revenue from professional consulting contracts is recognized when the services are completed or customer acceptance of the service is received, if required. For installation and maintenance, control is transferred as the services are provided or ratably over the service period, or, if applicable, after customer acceptance of the service. We apply the as invoiced practical expedient, for performance obligations satisfied over time, if the amount we may invoice corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Companys performance to date. This expedient permits us to recognize revenue in the amount we invoice the customer. The nature of our arrangements gives rise to several types of variable consideration including service level agreement credits, stock rotation rights, trade-in credits and volume-based rebates. At contract inception, we include this variable consideration in our transaction price when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount of the fee and it is probable there will not be a significant reversal. These estimates are generally made using the expected value method and a portfolio approach, based on historical experience, anticipated performance and our best judgment at the time. These estimates are reassessed at each reporting date. Because of our confidence in estimating these amounts, they are included in the transaction price of our contracts and the associated remaining performance obligations. We account for shipping and handling activities related to contracts with customers as costs to fulfill our promise to transfer the associated products, rather than as a separate performance obligation. Accordingly, we record amounts billed for shipping and handling costs as a component of net product sales, and classify such costs as a component of cost of products. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We evaluate the collectability of our accounts receivable based on a number of factors. We establish provisions for doubtful accounts using percentages of our accounts receivable balance as an overall proxy to reflect historical average credit losses and also use management judgment that may include elements that are uncertain, including specific provisions for known issues. The percentages are applied to aged accounts receivable balances. Aged accounts are determined based on the number of days the receivable is outstanding, measured from the date of the invoice, or from the date of revenue recognition. As the age of the receivable increases, the provision percentage also increases. This policy is applied consistently among all of our operating segments. 41 Table of Contents Based on the factors below, we periodically review customer account activity in order to assess the adequacy of the allowances provided for potential losses. Factors include economic conditions and judgments regarding collectability of account balances, each customers payment history and creditworthiness. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $44 million as of December 31, 2019 , $31 million as of December 31, 2018 , and $37 million as of December 31, 2017 . These allowances represent, as a percentage of gross receivables, 2.9% in 2019 , 2.2% in 2018 , and 2.8% in 2017 . Given our experience, the reserves for potential losses are considered adequate, but if one or more of our larger customers were to default on its obligations, we could be exposed to potentially significant losses in excess of the provisions established. We continually evaluate our reserves for doubtful accounts and economic deterioration could lead to the need to increase our allowances. Inventory Valuation Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value, using the average cost method. Each quarter, we reassess raw materials, work-in-process, parts and finished equipment inventory costs to identify purchase or usage variances from standards, and valuation adjustments are made. Additionally, to properly provide for potential exposure due to slow-moving, excess, obsolete or unusable inventory, inventory values are reduced based on forecasted usage, orders, technological obsolescence and inventory aging. These factors are impacted by market conditions, technology changes and changes in strategic direction, and require estimates and management judgment that may include elements that are uncertain. On a quarterly basis, we review the current net realizable value of inventory and adjust for any inventory exposure due to age or excess of cost over net realizable value. We have inventory in more than 40 countries around the world. We purchase inventory from third party suppliers and manufacture inventory at our plants. This inventory is transferred to our distribution and sales organizations at cost plus a mark-up. This mark-up is referred to as inter-company profit. Each quarter, we review our inventory levels and analyze our inter-company profit to determine the correct amount of inter-company profit to eliminate. Key assumptions are made to estimate product gross margins, the product mix of existing inventory balances and current period shipments. Over time, we refine these estimates as facts and circumstances change. If our estimates require refinement, our results could be impacted. The policies described are applied consistently across all of our operating segments. Warranty Reserves One of our key objectives is to provide superior quality products and services. To that end, we provide a standard manufacturers warranty typically extending up to 12 months, allowing our customers to seek repair of products under warranty at no additional cost. A corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs is recorded at the time of the sale. We sometimes offer extended warranties in the form of product maintenance services to our customers for purchase. For maintenance contracts that have been combined with product contracts under the revenue guidance, the Company defers revenue at an amount based on the relative standalone selling price allocation and recognizes the deferred revenue over the service term. For non-combined maintenance contracts, the Company defers the stated amount of the separately priced service and recognizes the deferred revenue over the service term. Refer to Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for further information regarding our accounting for extended warranties. Future warranty obligation costs are based upon historical factors such as labor rates, average repair time, travel time, number of service calls per machine and cost of replacement parts. When a sale is consummated, the total customer revenue is recognized and the associated warranty liability is recorded based upon the estimated cost to provide the service over the warranty period. Total warranty costs were $37 million in 2019 , $42 million in 2018 , and $43 million in 2017 . Warranty costs as a percentage of total product revenue was 1.4% in 2019 , 1.8% in 2018 , and 1.7% in 2017 . Historically, the principal factor used to estimate our warranty costs has been service calls per machine. Significant changes in this factor could result in actual warranty costs differing from accrued estimates. Although no near-term changes in our estimated warranty reserves are currently anticipated, in the unlikely event of a significant increase in warranty claims by one or more of our larger customers, costs to fulfill warranty obligations would be higher than provisioned, thereby impacting results. Goodwill Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter or more frequently if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of goodwill may be impaired. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include a decline in expected cash flows, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, a decision to sell a business, unanticipated competition, or slower growth rates, among others. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary or to perform a quantitative assessment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying 42 Table of Contents amount, including goodwill. Under the qualitative assessment, an entity is not required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines that it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. If under the quantitative assessment the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then the amount of the impairment loss, if any, is determined based on the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value up to the total value of goodwill assigned to the reporting unit. Fair values of the reporting units are estimated using a weighted methodology considering the output from both the income and market approaches. The income approach incorporates the use of a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis. A number of significant assumptions and estimates are involved in the application of the DCF model to forecast operating cash flows, including revenue growth, operating income margin and discount rate. Several of these assumptions vary among reporting units. The cash flow forecasts are generally based on approved strategic operating plans. The market approach is performed using the Guideline Public Companies (GPC) method which is based on earnings multiple data. We perform a reconciliation between our market capitalization and our estimate of the aggregate fair value of the reporting units, including consideration of a control premium. Valuation of Long-lived Assets and Amortizable Other Intangible Assets We perform impairment tests for our long-lived assets if an event or circumstance indicates that the carrying amount of our long-lived assets may not be recoverable. In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may also strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. Such activities could result in impairment of our long-lived assets or other intangible assets. We also are subject to the possibility of impairment of long-lived assets arising in the ordinary course of business. We consider the likelihood of impairment if certain events occur indicating that the carrying value of the long-lived assets may be impaired and we may recognize impairment if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or intangible asset is not recoverable from its undiscounted cash flows. Impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset. We use both the income approach and market approach to estimate fair value. Our estimates of fair value are subject to a high degree of judgment since they include a long-term forecast of future operations. Accordingly, any value ultimately derived from our long-lived assets may differ from our estimate of fair value. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits We sponsor domestic and foreign defined benefit pension and postemployment plans as well as domestic postretirement plans. As a result, we have significant pension, postretirement and postemployment benefit costs, which are developed from actuarial valuations. Actuarial assumptions attempt to anticipate future events and are used in calculating the expense and liability relating to these plans. These factors include assumptions we make about interest rates, expected investment return on plan assets, rate of increase in healthcare costs, involuntary turnover rates, and rates of future compensation increases. In addition, our actuarial consultants advise us about subjective factors such as withdrawal rates and mortality rates to use in our valuations. We generally review and update these assumptions on an annual basis at the beginning of each fiscal year. We are required to consider current market conditions, including changes in interest rates, in making these assumptions. The actuarial assumptions that we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates, or longer or shorter life spans of participants. These differences may result in a significant impact to the amount of pension, postretirement or postemployment benefits expense we have recorded or may record. Ongoing pension, postemployment and postretirement expense impacts all of our segments. Pension mark-to-market adjustments, settlements, curtailments and special termination benefits are excluded from our segment results as those items are not included in the evaluation of segment performance. See Note 4, "Segment Information and Concentrations," in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for a reconciliation of our segment results to income from operations. The key assumptions used in developing our 2019 expense were discount rates of 3.8% for our U.S. pension plan and 3.7% for our postretirement plan, and an expected return on assets assumption of 3.6% for our U.S. pension plan in 2019 . The U.S. plan represented 62% of the pension obligation and 100% of the postretirement plan obligation as of December 31, 2019 . Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.25% change in the discount rate used for the U.S. plan would have increased or decreased 2019 ongoing pension expense by approximately $2 million and would have had an immaterial impact on 2019 postretirement income. A 0.25% change in the expected rate of return on plan assets assumption for the U.S. pension plan would have increased or decreased 2019 ongoing pension expense by approximately $3 million. Our expected return on plan assets has historically been and will likely continue to be material to net income. For 2020 , we intend to use discount rates of 2.7% and 2.5% in determining the U.S. pension and postretirement expense, respectively. We intend to use an expected rate of return on assets assumption of 2.8% for the U.S. pension plan. We recognize additional changes in the fair value of plan assets and net actuarial gains or losses of our pension plans upon remeasurement, which occurs at least annually in the fourth quarter of each year. The remaining components of pension expense, primarily net service cost, interest cost, and the expected return on plan assets, are recorded on a quarterly basis as ongoing pension expense. While it is required that we review our actuarial assumptions each year at the measurement date, we generally do not change them between measurement dates. We use a measurement date of December 31 for all of our plans. Changes in assumptions or asset values may have a significant effect on the annual measurement of expense or income in the fourth quarter. 43 Table of Contents The most significant assumption used in developing our 2019 postemployment plan expense is the assumed rate of involuntary turnover of 4.3% . The involuntary turnover rate is based on historical trends and projections of involuntary turnover in the future. A 0.25% change in the rate of involuntary turnover would have increased or decreased 2019 expense by approximately $2 million . The sensitivity of the assumptions described above is specific to each individual plan and not to our pension, postretirement and postemployment plans in the aggregate. We intend to use an involuntary turnover assumption of 3.8% in determining the 2020 postemployment expense. Environmental and Legal Contingencies Each quarter, we review the status of each claim and legal proceeding and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding would be material and is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. To the extent that the amount of such a probable loss is estimable only by reference to a range of equally likely outcomes, and no amount within the range appears to be a better estimate than any other amount, we accrue the amount at the low end of the range. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, the use of estimates, assumptions and judgments, and external factors beyond our control, accruals are based on the best information available at the time. At environmental sites, or portions of environmental sites, where liability is determined to be probable but a remedy has not yet been determined, we accrue for the costs of investigations and studies for the affected areas but not for the costs of remediation. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. When insurance carriers or third parties have agreed to pay any amounts related to costs, and we believe that it is probable that we can collect such amounts, those amounts are reflected as receivables in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The most significant legal contingencies impacting our Company are the Fox River, Kalamazoo River, and Ebina matters, which are further described in detail in Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. NCR has been identified as a potentially responsible party (PRP) at both the Fox River and Kalamazoo sites. As described below and in Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, while litigation activities have largely concluded with respect to the Fox River and Kalamazoo matters and while the Company has engaged in cooperative regulatory compliance activities with the government of Japan with respect to the Ebina matter, the extent of our potential liabilities continues to be subject to significant uncertainties. The uncertainties related to the Fox River and Kalamazoo matters include the total cost of clean-up as well as the solvency and willingness of the co-obligors or indemnitors to pay. The uncertainties related to the Ebina matter include total cost of clean-up subject to approval by local agencies in Japan. Our net reserves for the Fox River matter, the Kalamazoo matter and the Ebina matter, as of December 31, 2019 were approximately $16 million , $81 million , and $19 million , respectively, as further discussed in Note 11, "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report. The Company regularly re-evaluates the assumptions used in determining the appropriate reserve for these matters as additional information becomes available and, when warranted, makes appropriate adjustments. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. The deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the enacted tax rates expected to apply in the periods in which the deferred tax assets or liabilities are anticipated to be settled or realized. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability and establish a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. The determination as to whether a deferred tax asset will be realized is made on a jurisdictional basis and is based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence. This evidence includes historical taxable income, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversal of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Projected future taxable income is based on our expected results and assumptions as to the jurisdiction in which the income will be earned. The expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences is based on current tax law and our tax methods of accounting. As a result of this determination, we had valuation allowances of $352 million as of December 31, 2019 and $485 million as of December 31, 2018 , related to certain deferred income tax assets, primarily tax loss carryforwards, in jurisdictions where there is uncertainty as to the ultimate realization of a benefit from those tax assets. If we are unable to generate sufficient future taxable income, or if there is a material change in the actual effective tax rates or the time period within which the underlying temporary differences become taxable or deductible, or if the tax laws change unfavorably, then we could be required to increase our valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, resulting in an increase in our effective tax rate. The Company recognizes the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than fifty percent likelihood of being realized upon settlement. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as part of the 44 Table of Contents provision for income taxes and are accrued beginning in the period that such interest and penalties would be applicable under relevant tax law until such time that the related tax benefits are recognized. During 2019, we transferred certain intangible assets among our wholly-owned subsidiaries, which resulted in the establishment of deferred tax assets of $274 million . The establishment of deferred tax assets from intra-entity transfers of intangible assets required us to make significant estimates and assumptions to determine the fair value of such intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing the intangible assets include, but are not limited to, internal revenue and expense forecasts, and discount rates. The sustainability of our future tax benefits is dependent upon the acceptance of these valuation estimates and assumptions by the taxing authorities. The provision for income taxes may change period-to-period based on non-recurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies. We maintain certain strategic management and operational activities in overseas subsidiaries and our foreign earnings are taxed at rates that are generally lower than in the United States. As of December 31, 2019 , we did not provide for U.S. federal income taxes or foreign withholding taxes on approximately $3.1 billion of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries as such earnings are expected to be reinvested indefinitely. Refer to Note 8, "Income Taxes" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report for disclosures related to foreign and domestic pretax income, foreign and domestic income tax (benefit) expense and the effect foreign taxes have on our overall effective tax rate. Stock-based Compensation We measure compensation cost for stock awards at fair value and recognize compensation expense over the service period for which awards are expected to vest. We utilize the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value of options at the date of grant, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected volatility and expected holding period. We estimate forfeitures for awards granted which are not expected to vest. The estimation of stock awards that will ultimately vest requires judgment, and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period in which estimates are revised. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including types of awards and historical experience. Actual results and future changes in estimates may differ from our current estimates. We have performance-based awards that vest only if specific performance conditions are satisfied, typically at the end of a single- or multi-year performance period, and the service requirement is fulfilled. The number of shares that will be earned can vary based on actual performance. No shares will vest if the objectives are not met, and in the event the objectives are exceeded, additional shares will vest up to a maximum amount. The cost of these awards is expensed over the service period based upon managements estimates of achievement against the performance criteria. Because the actual number of shares to be awarded is not known until the end of the performance period, the actual compensation expense related to these awards could differ from our current expectations. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS A discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements is described in Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Report, and we incorporate by reference such discussion in this MD&A.