Item 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) Overview The following were the significant events for the first quarter of 2018 , each of which is discussed more fully in later sections of this MD&A: Revenue increased approximately 3% from the prior year period, and was flat excluding favorable foreign currency impacts; Software revenue increased 2% from the prior year period, driven by cloud and professional services revenue growth of 9% and 8% , respectively, and operating margin declined 370 basis points from the prior year period; Services revenue increased 8% and operating margin rate expanded 240 basis points from the prior year period; Hardware revenue decreased 3% and operating margin rate declined 290 basis points from the prior year period; and The Company repurchased approximately 4.7 million shares of its common stock for $165 million. The rise of digital commerce, mobile engagement and globalization have dramatically altered the relationship between business and consumer. Increasingly, mega-trends such as big data, the Internet of things and the cloud are driving the next generation of changes in consumer behavior. Consumers now expect businesses to provide a rich, integrated and personalized experience across all commerce channels, including in-store, online and mobile. NCR is at the forefront of this shift to an omni-channel experience, assisting businesses of every size in their omni-channel, digital enablement and channel transformation journeys. Our mission is to innovate and enable the next generation of consumer experiences and productivity gains to enrich the interactions of businesses with their customers. To fulfill this mission, we have developed a long-term strategy built on being a global technology solutions company that uses cloud-based and other software, coupled with end-to-end smart-edge hardware and services solutions, to help our customers deliver on the promise of an omni-channel experience. We believe that our mission and long-term strategy position NCR to continue to drive sustainable revenue, profit and cash flow, and to improve value for all of our stakeholders. To deliver on our mission and strategy, we are focused on the following main initiatives in 2018: Strategic and Recurring Revenue - Continuing our focus on cloud, software platform, smart-edge devices and professional and managed services to drive profitable revenue and operating income. Sales Effectiveness - Providing our sales force with the training, tools, support and coverage model necessary to optimize efficiency and achieve our sales plan. Services Transformation - Driving performance and sustainable margin improvement by focusing on productivity and efficiency improvements, expanding our remote diagnostics and repair capabilities, creating greater discipline in our product lifecycle management, and employing a higher mix of managed services. Evolving our Business Model - Continuing the shift in our business model to provide innovative end-to-end solutions for our customers, with best in class support while keeping an efficient cost structure to create competitive advantage. New Products - Launching new industry products, powered by our platform software with best in class product lifecycle management and go-to-market support, and migrating and releasing existing licensed software products as cloud-based products. Operating Model Innovation - Eliminating waste, utilizing effective product lifecycle management, increasing productivity, using technology as an enabler, and executing on business process improvements to reduce costs and use savings to invest in strategic initiatives, product innovation and people. Customer Experience - Improving the customer experience by improving solution quality, availability and security. Team and Talent - Developing and retaining top talent by deploying competitive recruiting and training programs, evolving our brand, and continuously engaging with employees. Consistent with the foregoing, we are evaluating and beginning to implement certain initiatives focused on realigning resources and optimizing our portfolio of software solutions, accelerating structural changes in our services business and streamlining our hardware operations, particularly in supply chain and manufacturing. In addition, we plan, in pursuing our strategy, to continue to manage our costs effectively, to selectively pursue acquisitions and divestitures that promote our strategy, and to selectively penetrate market adjacencies in single and emerging growth industry segments. 44 Table of Contents Potentially significant risks to the execution of our initiatives and achievement of our strategy include the strength of demand for automated teller machines and other financial services hardware and its effect on our businesses; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from the imposition or threat of protectionist trade policies or import or export tariffs, global and regional market conditions and spending trends in the financial services and retail industries, new comprehensive U.S. tax legislation, modified or new global or regional trade agreements, the determination by the United Kingdom to exit the European Union, uncertainty over further potential changes in Eurozone participation and fluctuations in oil and commodity prices; our ability to transform our business model and to sell higher-margin software and services, including our ability to successfully streamline our hardware operations through manufacturing network redesign and use of outsourced manufacturing; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; market acceptance of new solutions and competition in the information technology industry; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; defects or errors in our products; the historical seasonality of our sales; tax rates and new US tax legislation; uncertainties or delays associated with the transition of key business leaders and foreign currency fluctuations. Results from Operations Three months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three months Ended March 31, 2017 The following table shows our results for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2018 2017 Revenue $ 1,517 $ 1,478 Gross margin $ 420 $ 412 Gross margin as a percentage of revenue 27.7 % 27.9 % Operating expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses $ 245 $ 230 Research and development expenses 66 67 Income from operations $ 109 $ 115 The following table shows our revenue by geographic theater for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2018 % of Total 2017 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Americas $ 889 58% $ 847 57% 5% 5% Europe, Middle East Africa (EMEA) 408 27% 422 29% (3)% (11)% Asia Pacific (APJ) 220 15% 209 14% 5% 1% Consolidated revenue $ 1,517 100% $ 1,478 100% 3% % The following table shows our revenue by segment for the three months ended March 31 : In millions 2018 % of Total 2017 % of Total % Increase (Decrease) % Increase (Decrease) Constant Currency (1) Software $ 460 30% $ 452 30% 2% % Services 601 40% 557 38% 8% 4% Hardware 456 30% 469 32% (3)% (6)% Consolidated revenue $ 1,517 100% $ 1,478 100% 3% % (1) The tables above for the three months ended March 31 are presented with period-over-period revenue growth or declines on a constant currency basis. Constant currency is a non-GAAP measure that exclude the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. We calculate this information by translating prior period revenue growth at current period monthly average exchange rates. We believe that examining period-over-period revenue growth or decline excluding foreign currency fluctuations is useful for assessing the 45 Table of Contents underlying performance of our business, and our management uses revenue growth adjusted for constant currency to evaluate period-over-period operating performance. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, period-over-period revenue growth under GAAP. The following table provides a reconciliation of geographic theater revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2018 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Americas 5% % 5% EMEA (3)% 8% (11)% APJ 5% 4% 1% Consolidated revenue 3% 3% % The following table provides a reconciliation of segment revenue percentage growth (GAAP) to revenue percentage growth constant currency (non-GAAP) for the three months ended March 31, 2018 : Revenue % Growth (GAAP) Favorable (unfavorable) FX impact Revenue % Growth Constant Currency (non-GAAP) Software 2% 2% % Services 8% 4% 4% Hardware (3)% 3% (6)% Consolidated revenue 3% 3% % Revenue For the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , revenue increased 3% due to an increase in Software and Services revenue partially offset by a decrease in Hardware revenue. Foreign currency fluctuations favorably impacted the revenue comparison by 3% . Software revenue increased 2% driven by growth in cloud and professional services, partially offset by declines in software licenses and software maintenance. Services revenue increased 8% due to growth in both hardware maintenance and managed and implementation services. Hardware revenue decreased 3% due to declines in Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and Self-Checkout (SCO) revenue, partially offset by an increase in Point-of-Sale (POS) revenue. The changes to segment revenue and the drivers thereof are discussed in further detail under " Revenue and Operating Income by Segment " below. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was 27.7% compared to 27.9% , in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Gross margin as a percentage of revenue expanded in our Services segment, which reflects the results of our strategic focus on business process improvement initiatives and a mix shift towards higher value managed services. The Services gross margin rate expansion was offset by a decline in our Software and Hardware segments. The decline in Software gross margin rate was primarily due to lower software license revenue partially offset by margin expansion in cloud. The decline in Hardware gross margin rate was due to lower volume as well as unfavorable mix of less SCO revenue. Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were $245 million , or 16.2% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $230 million , or 15.6% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . 46 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2018 included $16 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles and $10 million of costs related to our business transformation initiatives. Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2017 included $16 million of acquisition-related amortization of intangibles, $4 million of costs related to our business transformation initiatives and $1 million of acquisition-related costs. Excluding these items, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 14.1% of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 14.4% of revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased sales investment as we expand our strategic offers and go to market strategy. Research and development expenses were $66 million , or 4.4% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $67 million , or 4.5% as a percentage of revenue, in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 included $2 million and $3 million , respectively, of costs related to our business transformation initiatives. Excluding this cost, research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased from 4.3% in the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 4.2% in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Interest and Other Expense Items Interest expense was $41 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $39 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Other expense, net was $5 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and March 31, 2017 , respectively. Other expense, net in the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 included $6 million and $4 million , respectively, of losses from foreign currency remeasurement and foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax provisions for interim (quarterly) periods are based on an estimated annual effective income tax rate calculated separately from the effect of significant, infrequent or unusual items. Income tax expense was $7 million and $14 million for the three month periods ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The decrease in income tax expense was driven by lower income before taxes, the impacts of U.S. Tax Reform and an increase in discrete benefits in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in discrete benefits was primarily driven by favorable audit settlements in international jurisdictions, partially offset by the decrease of favorable excess tax benefits of share-based compensation awards. NCR is subject to numerous federal, state and foreign tax audits. While NCR believes that appropriate reserves exist for issues that might arise from these audits, should these audits be settled, the resulting tax effect could impact the tax provision and cash flows in 2018 or future periods. The Company regularly reviews our deferred tax assets for recoverability based on the evaluation of positive and negative evidence; given current earnings and anticipated future earnings at certain subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, the Company believes that there is sufficient positive evidence available that would allow the release of a valuation allowance of approximately $50 million to $60 million in the quarter ending June 30, 2018. Loss from Discontinued Operations In the three months ended March 31, 2018 loss from discontinued operations was $35 million , net of tax, compared to zero in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The increase in the loss from discontinued operations in the three months ended March 31, 2018 was driven by a ruling on the Kalamazoo environmental site. Revenue and Operating Income by Segment The Company manages and reports the following three segments: Software - Our software offerings include industry-based software platforms, applications and application suites for the financial services, retail, hospitality and small business industries. We also offer a portfolio of other industry-oriented software applications including cash management software, video banking software, fraud and loss prevention applications, check and document imaging, remote-deposit capture and customer-facing mobile and digital banking applications for the financial services industry; and secure electronic and mobile payment solutions, sector-specific point of sale software applications, and back-office inventory and store and restaurant management applications for the retail and hospitality industries. Additionally, we provide ongoing software support and maintenance services, as well as consulting and implementation services for our software solutions. 47 Table of Contents Services - Our global end-to-end services solutions include assessment and preparation, staging, installation, implementation, and maintenance and support for our solutions. We also provide systems management and complete managed services for our product offerings. In addition, we provide installation, maintenance and servicing for third party networking products and computer hardware from select manufacturers. Hardware - Our hardware solutions include our suite of financial-oriented self-service ATM-related hardware, and our retail- and hospitality-oriented point of sale terminal, self-checkout kiosk and related hardware. We also offer other self-service kiosks, such as self-check in/out kiosks for airlines, and wayfinding solutions for buildings and campuses. Each of these segments derives its revenue by selling in the sales theaters in which NCR operates. Segments are measured for profitability by the Companys chief operating decision maker based on revenue and segment operating income. For purposes of discussing our operating results by segment, we exclude the impact of certain non-operational items from segment operating income, consistent with the manner by which management reviews each segment, evaluates performance, and reports our segment results under GAAP. This format is useful to investors because it allows analysis and comparability of operating trends. It also includes the same information that is used by NCR management to make decisions regarding the segments and to assess our financial performance. Our segment results are reconciled to total Company results reported under GAAP in Note 15. Segment Information and Concentrations of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In the segment discussions below, we have disclosed the impact of foreign currency fluctuations as it relates to our segment revenue. Software Segment The following table shows the Software segment revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2018 2017 Revenue $ 460 $ 452 Operating income $ 109 $ 124 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 23.7 % 27.4 % In the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , Software revenue increased 2% , driven by growth in cloud revenue of 9% and professional services revenue of 8% , partially offset by declines in software license revenue of 18% and software maintenance revenue of 1% . Cloud revenue growth was due to the impact from prior period bookings and professional services revenue growth was due to demand for the Company's channel transformation and digital enablement solutions. Software license revenue declined due to lower Hardware revenue, the timing of large software transactions in the prior year and the beginning of a shift from software license revenue to cloud revenue. Software maintenance revenue declined due to lower software license revenue in prior periods. Foreign currency fluctuations had a favorable impact of 2% on the revenue comparison. Operating income decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease in operating income was driven by lower software license revenue partially offset by margin expansion in cloud. Services Segment The following table shows the Services segment revenue and operating income for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2018 2017 Revenue $ 601 $ 557 Operating income $ 62 $ 44 Operating income as a percentage of revenue 10.3 % 7.9 % In the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , Services revenue increased 8% , driven by growth in hardware maintenance revenue as a result of improving trends for the Company's channel transformation solutions, combined with increased managed and implementation services revenue. In the three months ended March 31, 2018 foreign currency fluctuations had an favorable impact on the revenue comparison of 4% . 48 Table of Contents Operating income increased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 primarily due to business process improvement initiatives and a mix shift of higher value services. Hardware Segment The following table shows the Hardware segment revenue and operating loss for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2018 2017 Revenue $ 456 $ 469 Operating loss $ (23 ) $ (10 ) Operating loss as a percentage of revenue (5.0 )% (2.1 )% In the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , Hardware revenue decreased 3% due to declines in ATM revenue of 7% and SCO revenue of 24% partially offset by an increase in POS revenue of 19% . ATM revenue declined due to lower volume. SCO revenue declined due to the timing of customer projects compared to the prior year period. POS revenue increased due to higher demand for the Company's store transformation solutions and a new solution in the petroleum and convenience sector. Foreign currency fluctuations had a favorable impact on the revenue comparison of 3% . Operating loss increased in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 driven by lower revenue. Financial Condition, Liquidity, and Capital Resources Cash used in operating activities was $24 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $39 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was due to timing of working capital. NCRs management uses a non-GAAP measure called free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the Company. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations, less capital expenditures for property, plant and equipment, less additions to capitalized software, plus discretionary pension contributions and settlements. We believe free cash flow information is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flows from the Companys continuing and discontinued operations to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash available after capital expenditures for, among other things, investments in the Companys existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, repurchases of NCR stock and repayment of debt obligations. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures, since there may be other non-discretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP, and therefore NCRs definition may differ from other companies definitions of this measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, cash flows from operating activities under GAAP. The table below reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to NCRs non-GAAP measure of free cash flow for the three months ended March 31 : Three months ended March 31 In millions 2018 2017 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (24 ) $ 39 Less: Expenditures for property, plant and equipment (29 ) (11 ) Less: Additions to capitalized software (42 ) (41 ) Net cash used in discontinued operations (4 ) (3 ) Free cash outflow (non-GAAP) $ (99 ) $ (16 ) The increase in expenditures for property, plant and equipment was primarily due to tenant improvements in our new world headquarters, which are partially reimbursed by the lessor and included in net cash provided by operating activities. Financing activities and certain other investing activities are not included in our calculation of free cash flow. Other investing activities primarily include business acquisitions, divestitures and investments as well as proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment. 49 Table of Contents Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from employee stock plans, repurchases of NCR common stock and borrowings and repayments of credit facilities and notes. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , we repurchased a total of $165 million and $350 million , respectively, of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , proceeds from employee stock plans were $5 million and $3 million , respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , we paid $11 million and $22 million , respectively, of tax withholding payments on behalf of employees for stock based awards that vested. Long Term Borrowings As of March 31, 2018 , our senior secured credit facility consisted of a term loan facility with an aggregate outstanding principal balance of $776 million , and a revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1.1 billion , of which $115 million was outstanding. Additionally, the revolving credit facility has up to $400 million available to certain foreign subsidiaries. Loans under the revolving credit facility are available in U.S. Dollars, Euros and Pound Sterling. The revolving credit facility also allows a portion of the availability to be used for outstanding letters of credit, and as of March 31, 2018 , there were no letters of credit outstanding. As of December 31, 2017 , the outstanding principal balance of the term loan facility was $810 million and the outstanding balance on the revolving facility was zero . As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , we had outstanding $700 million in aggregate principal balance of 6.375% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $600 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.00% senior unsecured notes due in 2022, $500 million in aggregate principal balance of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due in 2021 and $400 million in aggregate principal balance of 5.875% senior unsecured notes due in 2021. Our revolving trade receivables securitization facility provides the Company with up to $200 million in funding based on the availability of eligible receivables and other customary factors and conditions. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , the Company had zero , respectively, outstanding under the facility. Employee Benefit Plans In 2018 , we expect to make contributions of $30 million to our international pension plans, $60 million to our postemployment plan and $2 million to our postretirement plan. For additional information, refer to Note 8. Employee Benefit Plans of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Transformation and Restructuring Initiatives To accelerate our transformation journey, we are evaluating and beginning to implement programs to prioritize driving sustainable margin improvement in our hardware and services segments targeted at driving higher productivity, process efficiency, and, using technology as an enabler. As we finalize and execute on these programs, NCR expects to incur a related pre-tax charge over the next two years in the range of approximately $200 million to $250 million, with $100 million to $150 million in 2018, that will be included in income from operations. The cash impact of these transformation initiatives is expected to be approximately $150 million to $200 million over the next two years, with $100 million in 2018. We plan to achieve run-rate savings of approximately $150 million per year by 2020. Series A Convertible Preferred Stock On December 4, 2015, NCR issued 820,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to certain entities affiliated with the Blackstone Group L.P. for an aggregate purchase price of $820 million , or $1,000 per share, pursuant to an Investment Agreement between the Company and Blackstone, dated November 11, 2015. In connection with the issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Company incurred direct and incremental expenses of $26 million . These direct and incremental expenses reduced the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and will be accreted through retained earnings as a deemed dividend from the date of issuance through the first possible known redemption date, March 16, 2024. Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are entitled to a cumulative dividend at the rate of 5.5% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , the Company paid dividends-in-kind of $11 million and $12 million , respectively, associated with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , the Company had accrued dividends of $3 million , respectively, associated with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. There were no cash dividends declared during the three months ended March 31, 2018 or 2017 . The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible at the option of the holders at any time into shares of common stock at a conversion price of $30.00 per share, or a conversion rate of 33.333 shares of common stock per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As of March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , the maximum number of common shares that could be required to be issued upon conversion of the outstanding shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock was 27.9 million and 27.5 million , respectively. Cash and Cash Equivalents Held by Foreign Subsidiaries Cash and cash equivalents held by the Company's foreign subsidiaries at March 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017 were $331 million and $442 million , respectively. Under current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the U.S. are distributed to the U.S. in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to additional U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes, which could be significant. 50 Table of Contents Summary As of March 31, 2018 , our cash and cash equivalents totaled $348 million and our total debt was $3.09 billion . As of March 31, 2018 , our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was approximately $1.0 billion , and under our trade receivables securitization facility was $200 million . Our ability to generate positive cash flows from operations is dependent on general economic conditions, competitive pressures, and other business and risk factors described in Item 1A of Part I of the Companys 2017 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or otherwise comply with the terms of our credit facilities or senior unsecured notes, we may be required to seek additional financing alternatives. We believe that we have sufficient liquidity based on our current cash position, cash flows from operations and existing financing to meet our required pension, postemployment, and postretirement plan contributions, remediation and other payments related to the Fox River and Kalamazoo River environmental matters, debt servicing obligations, and our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Contractual and Other Commercial Commitments The Companys uncertain tax positions are not expected to have a significant impact on liquidity or sources and uses of capital resources. Our product warranties are discussed in Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates As described in Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we adopted various accounting standard updates effective January 1, 2018, most notably the adoption of the new revenue recognition accounting guidance. Management reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our 2017 Form 10-K and determined that, other than the change in accounting for revenue recognition, there were no changes to our critical accounting policies or our estimates associated with those policies in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . See discussion in Note 2. Accounting Policies related to Revenue with Contracts with Customers of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for new revenue recognition related accounting policies. New Accounting Pronouncements See discussion in Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for new accounting pronouncements. Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements use words such as expect, anticipate, outlook, intend, plan, believe, will, should, would, could and words of similar meaning. Statements that describe or relate to NCRs plans, goals, intentions, strategies or financial outlook, and statements that do not relate to historical or current fact, are examples of forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are based on our current beliefs, expectations and assumptions, which may not prove to be accurate, and involve a number of known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are out of NCR's control. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and there are a number of important factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially from the results contemplated by such forward-looking statements, including those factors relating to: the strength of demand for ATMs and other financial services hardware and its effect on the results of our businesses and reportable segments; domestic and global economic and credit conditions including, in particular, those resulting from uncertainty in the "BRIC" economies, economic sanctions against Russia, the determination by Britain to exit the European Union, the potential for changes to global or regional trade agreements or the imposition of protectionist trade policies, and the imposition of import or export tariffs or border adjustments; the impact of our indebtedness and its terms on our financial and operating activities; the impact of the terms of our strategic relationship with Blackstone and our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock; the transformation of our business model and our ability to sell higher-margin software and services; the possibility of disruptions in or problems with our data center hosting facilities; cybersecurity risks and compliance with data privacy and protection requirements; our ability to successfully introduce new solutions and compete in the information technology industry; our ability to improve execution in our sales and services organizations; defects or errors in our products; manufacturing disruptions, including those caused by or related to outsourced manufacturing; collectability difficulties in subcontracting relationships in Emerging Industries; the historical seasonality of our sales; foreign currency fluctuations; the availability and success of acquisitions, divestitures and alliances; our pension strategy and underfunded pension obligation; the success of our restructuring plans and cost reduction initiatives, including those in our Hardware segment; tax rates; reliance on third party suppliers; development and 51 Table of Contents protection of intellectual property; workforce turnover and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; uncertainties or delays associated with the transition of key business leaders; environmental exposures from our historical and ongoing manufacturing activities; and uncertainties with regard to regulations, lawsuits, claims and other matters across various jurisdictions. Additional information concerning these and other factors can be found in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Companys most recent annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Information About NCR NCR encourages investors to visit its web site ( http://www.ncr.com ) which is updated regularly with financial and other important information about NCR. The contents of the Companys web site are not incorporated into this quarterly report or the Companys other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 52 Table of Contents