Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to TPG Pace Tech Opportunities Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements under this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (Business Combination). We intend to consummate a Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering (the Public Offering) that closed on October 9, 2020 (the Close Date) and the private placement of warrants to purchase our Class A ordinary shares (Private Placement Warrants) that occurred at the Close Date, and from additional issuances of, if any, our capital stock and our debt, or a combination of cash, stock and debt. At June 30, 2021, we held cash of $1,121,886 and current liabilities of $57,240,553. Further, we expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Proposed Business Combination On January 28, 2021, the Company, TPG Pace Tech Merger Sub LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Nerdy Merger Sub), TCV VIII (A) VT, Inc., a Delaware corporation (TCV Blocker), LCSOF XI VT, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Learn Blocker and, together with TCV Blocker, the Blockers), TPG Pace Blocker Merger Sub I Inc., a Delaware corporation (Blocker Merger Sub I), TPG Pace Blocker Merger Sub II Inc., a Delaware corporation (Blocker Merger Sub II and, together with Blocker Merger Sub I, the Blocker Merger Subs and, together with Nerdy Merger Sub, the Merger Subs), Live Learning Technologies LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Nerdy), and, solely for the purposes described therein, certain entities affiliated with the Blockers (Blocker Holders) entered into a Business Combination Agreement as amended on March 19, 2021 and on July 4, 2021 and as may amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the Business Combination Agreement, and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Proposed Business Combination), pursuant to which, among other things and subject to the terms and conditions contained therein: (a) Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, on the date (the Closing Date) of closing of the Proposed Business Combination (the Closing), prior to the Effective Time (as defined in the Business Combination Agreement), (i) the Company will change its jurisdiction of incorporation by deregistering as a Cayman Islands exempted company and continuing and domesticating as a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Domestication), upon which the Company will change its name to Nerdy Inc., and (ii) Nerdy will cause each outstanding class of preferred units and the Nerdy profits units to be automatically converted into Nerdy common units (subject to applicable vesting requirements). (b) Nerdy Merger Sub will merge with and into Nerdy (the Merger), with Nerdy surviving the Merger. Pursuant to the Merger, (i) each holder of Nerdy common units (other than the Blockers) will exchange its Nerdy common units for (A) certain cash consideration, (B) either (x) certain limited liability company units in Nerdy (OpCo Units), subject to applicable vesting requirements, and an equivalent number of shares of the Companys class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class B 18 Common Stock), or (y) certain shares of the Companys class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (Class A Common Stock and, together with Class B Common Stock, Common Stock)), and (C) (x) certain Nerdy warrants to purchase OpCo Units at an exercise price of $11.50 (the OpCo Warrants) or (y) certain Company warrants to purchase shares of Class A Common Stock at an exercise price of $11.50 (Pace Warrants) and (ii) each holder of unit appreciation rights under the Nerdy 2016 U.S. Unit Appreciation Rights Plan and the 2016 Canadian Unit Appreciation Rights Plan will exchange all such unit appreciation rights for either (1) corresponding stock appreciation rights in the Company or (2) certain cash consideration. The holders of Nerdy common units (other than the Blockers) will also receive the rights set forth in the Tax Receivable Agreement (as defined below). (c) (i) Immediately following the Merger, Blocker Merger Sub I will merge with and into TCV Blocker, with TCV Blocker surviving such merger, and (ii) immediately thereafter, Blocker Merger Sub II will merge with and into Learn Blocker, with Learn Blocker surviving such merger (such mergers in clauses (i) and (ii), each a Reverse Blocker Merger and, together, the Reverse Blocker Mergers), and (iv) immediately following the Reverse Blocker Mergers, each surviving Blocker will merge with and into the Company (one after another) (each a Direct Blocker Merger and, together, the Direct Blocker Mergers and, together with the Reverse Blocker Mergers, the Blocker Mergers), with the Company surviving each Direct Blocker Merger. Each holder of equity interests in the Blockers will exchange such equity interests in the Reverse Blocker Mergers for (A) certain cash consideration, (B) certain shares of Class A Common Stock and (C) certain Pace Warrants. (d) Immediately following the Blocker Mergers and in connection with the Closing, the Company will contribute all of its assets (other than the OpCo Units it then holds) to Nerdy in exchange for a number of additional OpCo Units and a number of OpCo Warrants, such that the Company will hold a number of OpCo Units equal to the total number of shares of Class A Common Stock and a number of OpCo Warrants equal to the total number of Pace Warrants, in each case, issued and outstanding immediately after giving effect to the Proposed Business Combination. The aggregate consideration to be paid to the holders of Nerdy equity (including the owners of the Blockers with respect to their indirect interest in the Nerdy equity) is based on an enterprise value of $1,250,000,000 (subject to certain debt related adjustments) and shall consist of (i) an amount of cash equal to the excess of the amount of available cash over $250,000,000 (but not to exceed $388,200,000), plus (ii) equity consideration valued at $10.00 per share in respect of the remaining portion of Nerdys enterprise value after deducting the cash consideration in clause (i), plus (iii) certain OpCo Warrants or Pace Warrants, as applicable, plus (iv) the Nerdy Earnout (as defined below), if payable. Following the Closing, the combined company will be organized in an Up-C structure, and the Companys only direct assets will consist of OpCo Units and OpCo Warrants. Immediately following the Closing, in the scenario where no public shareholders elect to redeem their Public Shares, the Company would own approximately 60% of the OpCo Units and approximately 90% of the OpCo Warrants, and would have the ability to appoint three of the five managers to the board of managers ofNerdy in accordance with the terms of the Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of Nerdy to be entered into in connection with the Closing (the OpCo LLC Agreement). In such a no redemption scenario, the amount of cash to be contributed by the Company to Nerdy at the Closing of the Proposed Business Combination would be approximately $266 million. In a maximum redemption scenario such that every Public Share is redeemed, the Company would own approximately 38% of the OpCo Units, and would have the ability to appoint two of the five managers to the board of managers of Nerdy in accordance with the OpCo LLC Agreement, with no other Nerdy member having the ability to appoint more than one of the remaining managers. In such a maximum redemption scenario, the amount of cash to be contributed by the Company to Nerdy at the Closing of the Proposed Business Combination would be approximately $170 million. In addition to the consideration described above, the existing holders of Nerdy equity will be issued an aggregate of 4 million additional issued (i) shares Class A Common Stock or (ii) OpCo Units (and a corresponding number of Class B Common Stock), as applicable, in earn-out consideration that will be subject to forfeiture if the achievement of certain stock price thresholds are not met within five years of the Closing Date (the Nerdy Earnout). Under the Business Combination Agreement, the obligations of the parties to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby are subject to a number of closing conditions, including the Company obtaining the requisite approval of its shareholders and the holders of Nerdy membership interests, which the Company expects to seek at an extraordinary general meeting of the Company in the second quarter of 2021. The Business Combination Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the closing of the Proposed Business Combination by mutual written consent of the Company and Nerdy and, among other things, if the Proposed Business Combination has not occurred prior to September 30, 2021. As such, the closing of the Proposed Business Combination cannot be assured. Concurrently with the execution of the Business Combination Agreement, the Company entered into the following agreements: Transaction Support Agreements, pursuant to which the Nerdy equity holders agreed to, among other things, vote in favor of the Business Combination Agreement and the Proposed Business Combination and to be bound by certain other covenants and agreements related to the Proposed Business Combination; 19 A Stockholders Agreement, pursuant to which certain unit holders in Nerdy and our Sponsor were provided with certain governance and board nomination rights; Subscription Agreements with certain qualified institutional buyers and accredited investors (collectively, the Investors), pursuant to which, among other things, the Investors agreed to subscribe for and purchase, and the Company agreed to issue and sell to the Investors, an aggregate of 15,000,000 newly issued shares of Class A Common Stock in connection with the closing of the Proposed Business Combination for aggregate gross proceeds of $150,000,000 (the Pipe Financing); and A Waiver Agreement with each holder of Founder Shares, including our Sponsor, pursuant to which such holders agreed to waive their right to receive certain shares of Class A Common Stock in connection with a conversion adjustment applicable to the Pipe Financing and other issuances of securities in excess of 15,000,000 shares under the forward purchase agreements. Such holders also agreed (i) to forfeit (a) 2,000,000 shares, (b) certain shares of Class A Common Stock in connection with the consummation of issuances pursuant to the forward purchase agreements of any shares in excess of an aggregate 15,000,000 shares and (c) 2,444,444 warrants, and (ii) to subject 4,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock following the closing to potential forfeiture if certain stock price thresholds are not achieved within a period of five years from the Closing Date, consistent with the forfeiture thresholds for the Nerdy Earnout. Other than as specifically discussed herein, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q does not give effect to the Proposed Business Combination or the transactions contemplated thereby. Results of Operations For the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, we incurred net losses of $9,186,142 and $868, respectively. Net loss for the three months ended June 30, 2021 consisted primarily of a $8,053,333 loss due to a change in the fair value of our derivative liabilities, and professional fees and other expenses of $1,139,648. For the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, we earned net income of $19,145,017 and incurred a net loss of $868, respectively. Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2021 consisted primarily of a $24,763,334 gain due to a change in the fair value of our derivative liabilities offset by professional fees and other expenses of $5,631,919. We anticipate that changes to the fair value of our derivative instruments, consisting of certain of our warrants and forward purchase agreements exercisable for our Class A ordinary shares, may fluctuate significantly in future quarters, but these fluctuations do not impact our cash flows. Our business activities since our Public Offering have consisted solely of identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition targets for a Business Combination. Liquidity and Capital Resources On August 12, 2019, our Sponsor purchased an aggregate of 20,000,000 Founder Shares for an aggregate purchase price of $25,000, or approximately $0.001 per share. On October 2, 2020, our Sponsor transferred 40,000 Founder Shares to each of our four independent directors at their original purchase price. On October 2, 2020, our Sponsor forfeited 7,062,500 Founder Shares for no consideration On November 20, 2020, our Sponsor forfeited 1,687,500 Founder Shares on the expiration of the underwriters over-allotment option. At June 30, 2021, our Sponsor and four independent directors (collectively, the Initial Shareholders) held, collectively, 11,250,000 Founder Shares. On October 9, 2020, we consummated the Public Offering of 45,000,000 Units (which included the purchase of 5,000,000 Units subject to the underwriters 6,000,000 Unit over-allotment option) at a price of $10.00 per Unit generating gross proceeds of $450,000,000 before underwriting discounts and expenses. Each Unit consists of one Public Share and one-fifth of one Warrant. Each whole Warrant entitles the holder to purchase one Class A ordinary share at a price of $11.50 per share. Only whole Warrants may be exercised and no fractional Warrants will be issued upon separation of the Units and only whole Warrants may be traded. Prior to the Close Date, we completed the private sale of an aggregate of 7,333,333 Private Placement Warrants, each exercisable to purchase one Class A ordinary share for $11.50 per share, to our Sponsor, at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant. We received gross proceeds from the Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants of $450,000,000 and $11,000,000, respectively, for an aggregate of $461,000,000. $450,000,000 of the gross proceeds were deposited in the Trust Account. At the Close Date, the remaining $11,000,000 was held outside of the Trust Account, of which $9,000,000 was used to pay underwriting discounts and $300,000 was used to repay notes payable to our Sponsor, with the balance reserved to pay accrued offering and formation costs, business, legal and accounting due diligence on prospective acquisitions and continuing general and administrative expenses. In the future, a portion of interest income on the funds held in the Trust Account may be released to us to pay tax obligations. 20 On October 14, 2020 , we invested the funds held in the Trust Account in a money market account invested in permitted United States government securities within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), having a maturity of 180 days or less, or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act (Permitted Investments). During the six months ended June 30, 2021, we earned interest income of $13,602 on investments held in the Trust Account. At June 30, 2021, we had cash held outside of the Trust Account of $1,121,886, which is available to fund our working capital requirements. At June 30, 2021, we had current liabilities of $57,420,553, including derivative liabilities of $34,773,333 related to the fair value of certain of our warrants and forward purchase agreements exercisable for our Class A ordinary shares, deferred underwriting discounts of $15,750,000, a promissory note payable to our Sponsor of $2,000,000, and accrued professional fees and other expenses of $4,717,220 primarily due to costs associated with our identification and evaluation of potential Business Combinations. The identification and evaluation of potential Business Combinations is continuing after June 30, 2021, and we therefore expect to incur additional expenses, which may be significant. We expect some portion of these expenses to be paid upon consummation of a Business Combination. We may, however, need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business prior to a Business Combination. We may request loans from our Sponsor, affiliates of our Sponsor or certain of our executive officers and directors to fund our working capital requirements prior to completing a Business Combination. We may use working capital to repay such loans. Additional funds could also be raised through a private offering of debt or equity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise such funds. We may also need to obtain additional financing either to complete a Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Class A ordinary shares upon completion of a Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. We have 24 months from the Close Date to complete our Business Combination. If we do not complete a Business Combination within this period, we shall (i) cease all operations except for the purposes of winding up; (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned on the funds in the Trust Account and not previously released to us to pay our taxes (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses) divided by the number of then outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish public shareholders rights as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidation distributions, if any), subject to applicable law, and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining shareholders and the board of directors, dissolve and liquidate, subject in each case to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. The Initial Shareholders and our officers and directors have entered into a letter agreement with us, pursuant to which they have waived their rights to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to their Founder Shares if we fail to complete the Business Combination within 24 months from the Close Date. However, if the Initial Shareholders acquire Public Shares after the Close Date, they will be entitled to liquidating distributions from the Trust Account with respect to such Public Shares if we fail to complete the Business Combination within the allotted 24-month time period. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including earned interest (which interest shall be net of taxes payable) to consummate a Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to consummate a Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account after completion of the Business Combination and redemptions of Class A ordinary shares, if any, will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategy. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or entered into any non-financial agreements involving assets as of June 30, 2021. 21 Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities other than an administrative agreement to pay monthly recurring expenses of $50,000 for office space, administrative and support services to an affiliate of our Sponsor. The agreement terminates upon the earlier of the completion of a Business Combination or the liquidation of the Company. We are committed to pay the deferred discount of 3.50% of the gross proceeds of the Public Offering, or $15,750,000 (the Deferred Discount), to the underwriters upon the completion of a Business Combination. The underwriters are not entitled to receive any of the interest earned on Trust Account funds that would be used to pay the Deferred Discount, and no Deferred Discount is payable to the underwriters if a Business Combination is not completed within 24 months after the Close Date. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following as our critical accounting policies: Offering Costs We comply with the requirements of ASC 340-10-S99-1 and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5A Expenses of Offering. The Company incurred offering costs of $1,094,456 allocated to the issuance and sale of Class A ordinary shares in connection with the Public Offering. These costs, together with the portions of the underwriter discount and Deferred Discount allocated to the issuance and sale of Class A ordinary shares, totaling $25,091,705, were charged to temporary equity upon completion of the Public Offering. Offering costs of $752,751, attributed to the issuance and sale of the Public Warrants were expensed at the Close Date. Derivative Liabilities We evaluated our warrants included in its Units and Private Placement Warrants (collectively, Warrant Securities), and the Forward Purchase Agreements and Additional Forward Purchase Agreements (as defined below in Note 5, and collectively, FPAs) in accordance with ASC 815-40, Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity, and concluded that the Warrant Securities and FPAs could not be accounted for as components of equity. As the Warrant Securities and FPAs meet the definition of a derivative in accordance with ASC 815, the Warrant Securities and FPAs are recorded as derivative liabilities on the Balance Sheet and measured at fair value at inception (the Close Date) and remeasured at each reporting date in accordance with ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, with changes in fair value recognized in the Statement of Operations in the period of change. Redeemable Ordinary Shares All of the 45,000,000 Class A ordinary shares sold as part of the Units in the Public Offering contain a redemption feature which allows for the redemption of such public shares in connection with the Companys liquidation, if there is a stockholder vote or tender offer in connection with the Business Combination and in connection with certain amendments to our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. In accordance with SEC and its staffs guidance on redeemable equity instruments, which has been codified in ASC 480-10-S99, redemption provisions not solely within our control require common stock subject to redemption to be classified outside of permanent equity. Ordinary liquidation events, which involve the redemption and liquidation of all of our equity instruments, are excluded from the provisions of ASC 480. The Company recognizes changes in redemption value immediately as they occur and adjusts the carrying value of redeemable common stock to equal the redemption value at the end of each reporting period. Increases or decreases in the carrying amount of redeemable common stock are affected by charges against additional paid in capital and accumulated deficit. Net (Loss) Income per Ordinary Share We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. Net (loss) income per ordinary share is computed by dividing net (loss) income by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period as calculated using the treasury stock method. At June 30, 2021, we had outstanding warrants and forward purchase contracts to purchase up to 36,333,333 Class A ordinary shares. The weighted average of these shares was excluded from the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per ordinary share since the exercise of the warrants and forward purchase contracts is contingent upon the 22 occurrence of future events. At June 30 , 202 0 , we did not have any dilutive securities or other contracts that could, potentially, be exercised or converted into ordinary shares and then share in our earnings under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted net (loss) income per ordinary share is the same as basic net (loss) income per ordinary share for the three and six months ended June 3 0 , 2021 and 2020, respectively. We have two classes of ordinary shares, Class A ordinary shares and Class F ordinary shares. Earnings and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of ordinary shares. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements. 23