Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this report. Competition Although we have built a scaled and differentiated platform for live learning, we compete with a variety of competitors both online and offline. We believe that the vast majority of our competition is from offline competitors. Within this market, there exist thousands of companies and hundreds of thousands of individuals that provide supplemental instruction and learning services. These span academics, test preparation, professional training and skills, adult learning, enrichment, and other categories. We believe that offline solutions are inferior to the online solution we have developed. Specifically, we believe that our platform is more efficient, convenient, effective, and affordable than most offline solutions. We believe this value proposition is a big factor in driving consumer adoption of online solutions like ours. The offline market for live learning, both one-on-one instruction and small group classes, is large and fragmented. We compete for time and attention with many small and local businesses, small proprietorships, and larger national companies including franchises. While we believe our online technology driven solution offers significant benefits when compared to these offline options, we compete with them to attract Learners and Experts to our platform. While we believe we are one of the few companies that offers a comprehensive destination for live learning online, we do compete with other direct-to-consumer and institutional solutions. Consumers have a variety of choices in terms of competitive options, and some of these competitors are well capitalized. We compete against a variety of tutor and class marketplaces and directories and also against companies that offer asynchronous and self-study products. We believe that consumer awareness is one of the primary barriers to the adoption of our online solution. While we have scaled to hundreds of thousands of users, many people in the U.S. and institutions are not aware of the online solutions we offer. Many still believe they need to drive to a brick-and-mortar location often during rush hour traffic to find supplemental learning assistance. We have invested millions of dollars to drive consumer awareness and believe that we will continue to raise awareness of the value and availability of our platform. COVID-19 Pandemic We continue to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. In the first half of 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting closure of schools and testing centers created short-term challenges for our business. Many schools went to optional grading, and standardized and professional exams were suspended, which reduced demand for supplemental learning. We leaned into product evolution and completed our long-term transition to delivering live instruction 100% online in April 2020, a goal we had been working toward since first launching our online platform in 2014. In addition, while COVID-19 accelerated and amplified some of the acute challenges within the U.S education system that existed before the pandemic, adding incremental headwinds in the process, it also created an environment where new solutions to these challenges were both welcome and actively being pursued. Furthermore, with recent advancements in technology, like the learning solutions that we offer, transforming the way people learn has never been more possible. We believe we are at the 11 Table of Contents beginning of a long-term and durable shift in the way supplemental learning will be delivered - a shift that we believe will persist for years to come. For additional discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, refer to Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements on page 1 of this report and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Reverse Recapitalization On September 20, 2021, TPG Pace Tech Opportunities Corp., an exempted company incorporated in the Cayman Islands (TPG Pace), and Live Learning Technologies LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (along with its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Nerdy LLC), consummated a business combination (the Closing), pursuant to the business combination agreement, dated as of January 28, 2021 (as amended, the Business Combination Agreement). Nerdy LLC is a holding company that is the sole owner of several operating companies, including its flagship business Varsity Tutors. Immediately prior to the Closing, TPG Pace became a Delaware corporation and was renamed Nerdy Inc. This transaction is referred to herein as the Reverse Recapitalization. As a result of the Reverse Recapitalization, Nerdy LLC is consolidated with and into Nerdy Inc. The Reverse Recapitalization was accomplished through an umbrella partnership corporation (Up-C) structure, which is often used by partnerships and limited liability companies (operating as partnerships) undertaking an initial public offering. The Up-C structure allowed legacy Nerdy LLC equity holders (the Legacy Nerdy Holders) to retain their equity ownership in Nerdy LLC, an entity that is classified as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and provides potential future tax benefits for Nerdy Inc. when the Legacy Nerdy Holders ultimately redeem their pass-through interests for shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Class A Common Stock) in Nerdy Inc. as a result of a tax receivable agreement (the Tax Receivable Agreement). Under the terms of the Tax Receivable Agreement, 85% of these potential future tax benefits realized by Nerdy Inc. as a result of such redemptions will be paid to certain Legacy Nerdy Holders. Human Capital We are a remote-first company, which means that working remotely is the primary option for our employees. Much like online learning affords Learners the ability to find the best Expert for their needs irrespective of location, we believe a remote-first orientation enables us to access a significantly larger talent pool from which to hire, which can serve as a long-term competitive advantage. As of February 14, 2023, we had approximately seven hundred full and part-time employees, none of whom are covered under a collective bargaining agreement. Talent Acquisition, Development, Engagement, and Retention We believe that our employees are our greatest asset and place a premium on the importance of their retention, growth, and development. We offer competitive compensation, including salary and equity, and benefits packages to meet the needs of employees where we operate. All employees are offered training and development opportunities, including unlimited free classes and 52 hours of free tutoring on our Live Learning Platform (for which they provide feedback on their experience with the platform, which helps us improve the platform). Diversity and Inclusion We have a diverse talent pipeline that allows us to model our leadership principles, foster innovation, build high performing teams, and deliver results. We firmly believe that a diverse workforce enables stronger company performance, enhances culture, and better positions us to serve the varied needs of our customers. We aspire to and promote a welcoming, inclusive culture that values all people - regardless of sex, gender, race, color, religion, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender expression, or experiences - through recruiting outreach and internal connection. We are committed to being an organization that is as diverse as the audiences we serve, and that commitment is a part of every hire we make. As of February 14, 2023, approximately 67% of our employees were women and approximately 31% of employees were racially and ethnically diverse. Regulatory and Administrative Investigations, Audits, and Inquiries We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be the subject of regulatory and administrative investigations, audits, and inquiries conducted by federal, state, or local governmental agencies concerning the classification and compensation of Experts, data security, tax issues, unemployment insurance, workers compensation insurance, business practices, and other matters. Results of investigations, audits, inquiries, and related governmental action are inherently unpredictable and, as such, there is always the risk of an investigation, audit, or inquiry having a material impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, particularly in the event that an investigation, audit, or inquiry results in a lawsuit or unfavorable regulatory enforcement or other action. Regardless of the outcome, these matters can have an adverse impact on us in light of the costs associated with cooperating with, or defending against, such matters, reputational risks, and the diversion of management resources and other factors. For additional information regarding the impact of regulatory and 12 Table of Contents administrative investigations, audits, and inquiries on our business and financial results, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Government Regulation There are a variety of regulations that apply to how we operate our business, including, for example, regulations related to marketing efforts (such as the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (TCPA), Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) guidelines related to communications with consumers, the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), among others); regulations related to data privacy of consumers (such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA)) and how we process such information (such as the CCPA and other similar legislation that is or may be enacted (including the California Privacy Rights and Enforcement Act of 2020 (CPRA)), as well as data security and data breaches; regulations related to background checks as regulated by the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) and similar state laws and new hire reporting (for employees and independent contractors depending on the state) and other federal, state, and local laws of general applicability to employers, direct-to-consumer companies, and companies in general (these laws, regulations, and standards govern issues such as worker classification, labor and employment, anti-discrimination, payments, whistleblowing and worker confidentiality obligations, personal injury, text messaging, subscription services, intellectual property, consumer protection and warnings, marketing, taxation, privacy, data security, competition, unionizing and collective action, arbitration agreements and class action waiver provisions, terms of service, mobile application and website accessibility, money transmittal, and background checks). There have been statutory changes and resulting ballot initiatives regarding independent contractor status that demonstrate certain sentiment among certain legislatures and the public (both favorable and unfavorable). There are also ongoing proposals as it relates to the classification of independent contractors in various states and cities, and there is potential for federal legislation regarding test(s) to determine whether independent contractors are properly classified by their putative employers. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislative or judicial changes could or would be adopted or implemented, and there are certain proposals that, if adopted, could harm our business through a decrease in the number of Experts available through our platform or through a change to our unit level economics (in the event Experts are deemed to be employees). We may also run the risk of retroactive applications of new laws to our business model that could result in liability or losses. We are also subject to data privacy and data security laws related to the personal information we collect from Learners and Experts. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted in additional jurisdictions, and certain proposals, if adopted, could harm our business through a decrease in consumer registrations and revenues, or through a change in marketing strategies; however, a federal data privacy and security standard, which is also a possibility, may provide substantial clarity and benefits for businesses that collect and maintain such data. These regulations are often complex and subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may change or develop over time through judicial decisions or as new guidance or interpretations are provided by regulatory and governing bodies, such as federal, state, and local administrative agencies. As stated above, we remain subject to a variety of laws and regulations. We monitor changes to applicable state and federal regulations and believe we are in compliance with the existing interpretations or applications of such applicable state and federal regulations. There is also a possibility of retroactive application of new laws to the business as well. For additional information regarding the impact of government regulation on our business and financial results, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Data Privacy and Security We prioritize the trust of Learners, Experts, schools, vendors, and employees and place an emphasis on data privacy and security. The privacy and security programs are designed and implemented in an effort to address the compliance and security requirements of data related to Learners, Experts, schools, vendors, and employees. We have a dedicated team of professionals that focus on application, network, and system security, as well as security compliance, education, and incident response. We maintain a vulnerability management program designed to identify security vulnerabilities on servers, workstations, and applications, and subsequent remediation of vulnerabilities. Regular internal and external penetration tests are also conducted, and open items are remediated. We rely on internet systems and infrastructure to operate our business, some of which are managed by third parties. We have implemented physical, technical, and administrative safeguards designed to help protect our systems. We routinely update, monitor, patch, and upgrade our systems to optimize performance and protect against known and unknown vulnerabilities, material disruptions, or slowdowns. We encrypt external data in transit and use security controls in order to control access to the resources containing personal data or other confidential information. 13 Table of Contents We design the platform, offerings, and policies to facilitate compliance with evolving privacy and data security laws and regulations. We post privacy policies online and maintain certain other internal policies and practices relating to data security and concerning processing, use, and disclosure of personal information. We collect and use aggregated, end-user information to develop, provide, and improve our platform and offerings. Our publication of the privacy policy and other statements regarding privacy and security may subject us to investigation or enforcement actions by federal, state, and international regulators if they are found to be deficient, lacking transparency, deceptive, or misrepresentative of the practices. We also may be bound from time to time by contractual obligations related to our collection and use of certain personally identifiable information. The privacy and data security laws and regulations to which we are subject, as well as their interpretation, are evolving and expected to continue to change over time. We continue to monitor the current landscape of privacy and security laws, as well as pending and emerging legislation, in both U.S. state and federal jurisdictions and abroad. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted in additional jurisdictions (such as enacted state privacy laws in California, Virginia, and Colorado, for example), and certain proposals, if adopted, could harm our business through a decrease in registrations and revenues, or through a change in marketing strategies; however, a federal data privacy and security standard, which is also a possibility, may provide substantial clarity and benefits for businesses that collect and maintain such data. Other privacy and data security laws and regulations to which we may be subject include emerging state legislation, COPPA, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, TCPA, and Section 5(c) of the Federal Trade Commission Act. Additionally, the Company may be subject to foreign privacy and data protection requirements including the United Kingdoms Data Protection Act 2018, European General Data Protection and Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act. More generally, the various privacy and data security legal obligations that apply to us may evolve in a manner that relates to our practices or the features of our mobile applications or websites. We may need to take additional measures to comply with the new and evolving legal obligations and to maintain and improve the information security posture in an effort to avoid information security incidents or breaches affecting personal information or other sensitive or proprietary data. For additional information regarding the impact of data privacy and security on our business, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Intellectual Property We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to the business. We rely on trademarks, trade names, copyrights, trade secrets, license agreements, intellectual property assignment agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, and employee non-disclosure and invention assignment agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Though we rely in part upon these legal and contractual protections, we believe that factors such as the skills and ingenuity of our employees and the functionality and frequent enhancements to the platform are larger contributors to our success in the marketplace. We have an ongoing trademark and service mark registration program pursuant to which we register our brand names and product names, taglines, and logos in the U.S. and other countries to the extent it is determined to be appropriate and cost-effective. As of February 14, 2023, we have several registered and pending trademarks in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Additionally, we have common law rights in some trademarks in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, as well as many registered copyrights in the U.S. We also have numerous registered domain names for websites that are used in the business, such as www.nerdy.com, and the businesses of the subsidiary entities, such as www.varsitytutors.com, and other businesses and their respective variations. We continue to evaluate and act upon additional intellectual property protections to the extent we believe it would be beneficial and cost-effective to do so. Despite efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, they may not be respected in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. For additional information, see Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report. Available Information We make available, free of charge, through our website (www.nerdy.com) reports we file with, or furnish to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC), including our annual reports on Forms 10-K, quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, current reports on Forms 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an internet site containing these reports, proxy, and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. All of these documents also are available to stockholders at no charge upon request sent to our corporate secretary (101 S. Hanley Road, 14 Table of Contents Suite 300, St. Louis, Missouri 63105, Telephone: 314-412-1227). The information and other content contained on our website are not part of (or incorporated by reference in) this report or any other document we file with the SEC. Information about our Executive Officers The section below provides information regarding our executive officers as of February 14, 2023: Charles Cohn , age 37, is our Founder, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Cohn founded the company in 2007. Mr. Cohn previously worked in energy & power investment banking at Wells Fargo Securities and venture capital at Ascension Ventures, which he then left to focus on growing Nerdy full-time at the end of 2011. He serves on the national council board of the entrepreneurship program at Washington University in St. Louis. Mr. Cohn has a BSBA in Finance and Entrepreneurship from Washington University in St. Louis. Jason Pello , age 43, has served as our Chief Financial Officer since October 2020. Previously, Mr. Pello served as our Vice President, Finance and Accounting from September 2019 until October 2020. Prior to joining Nerdy, Mr. Pello served as Vice President, Corporate Finance at Save-A-Lot, a revenue grocery chain owned by private equity from December 2017 until September 2019. Prior to that role, Mr. Pello served as Vice President, Internal Audit from November 2015 through November 2017, and Interim Vice President of Financial Planning & Analysis from October 2016 through November 2017, at Caleres (formerly Brown Shoe Company), a publicly traded shoe retailer. Mr. Pello holds a Bachelors and Masters degree in Accounting from the University of Missouri-Columbia and is a registered CPA in Missouri (inactive). Heidi Robinson , age 49, has served as our Chief Product Officer since July 2016. Prior to joining Nerdy, Ms. Robinson served as Vice President of Product & Customer Experience at Sears Home Services from November 2014 through May 2016. Prior to her role at Sears Home Services, Ms. Robinson held roles as VP, Product at venture-backed startup Pro.com and as VP, User Experience and Optimization at Nordstrom Direct, as well as 14 years at Amazon, where she led product management for Kindle retail and AmazonFresh, among other efforts. Ms. Robinson received a Bachelors degree from Pacific Lutheran University and an MBA from the University of Washington. Chris Swenson , age 51, has served as our Chief Legal Officer and Corporate Secretary since August 2019, having started Nerdys legal department in May 2015 as its Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining Nerdy, Mr. Swenson was a partner at the national law firm of Polsinelli PC, and began serving as Nerdys outside counsel in 2008, shortly after it was founded. Mr. Swenson received a BSBA with distinction and a BA from Washington University in St. Louis, as well as his law degree from the University of Missouri-Kansas City. 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, the following risks and uncertainties, some of which have occurred and any of which may occur in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our actual results may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those discussed in the sections of this report entitled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements on page 1 of this report and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this report. Risks Related to Our Business Model, Operations, and Growth Strategy We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future financial and operating results, and we may not achieve our expected financial and operating results in the future. We have a limited operating history and we may not achieve our expected financial and operating results in the future. Further, we cannot assure you that our newer products and services, or any other products and services we may introduce or acquire, will be integrated effectively into our business, achieve or sustain profitability, or achieve market acceptance at levels sufficient to justify our investment. Our ability to fully integrate these new services into our platform or achieve satisfactory financial results from them is unproven. Because we have a limited operating history and the market for our services, including newly built products and services, is rapidly evolving, it is difficult for us to predict our operating results, particularly with respect to our most recent offerings. If the markets for a direct-to-consumer or an institutional, online learning platform do not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of these markets, our business may be harmed. Some of our offerings, including small group classes, large format group classes, and adaptive self-study, have only been meaningfully integrated into our broader platform over the past year and thus have limited operating history. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses, and difficulties typically encountered by companies in their early stage of development, including, but not limited to our ability to successfully: execute on our relatively new, evolving, and unproven business model, including our shift in 2022 to offering Learning Memberships and our recent introduction of Varsity Tutors for Schools offerings; build new products and services, both internally and through third parties; acquire complementary products and services to expand our offerings and enhance our platform; attract and retain Learners and Experts and increase their engagement with/through our platform; manage the growth of our business, including increasing or unforeseen expenses; develop and scale a technology infrastructure to efficiently handle increased utilization by Learners, especially during peak periods; maintain and manage relationships with strategic partners; ensure our platform remains secure and protects the information of Learners, Experts, and other users; build and pursue a profitable business model and pricing strategy; compete with companies that offer similar services or products; expand into adjacent markets; navigate the ongoing evolution and uncertain application of regulatory requirements, such as privacy laws, to our business; and continue our expansion into new geographic markets, including markets outside the U.S. We have encountered and will continue to encounter these risks and if we do not manage them successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We have incurred significant net losses since our formation, and it may be difficult for us to achieve and maintain profitability. We have experienced significant net losses since our formation in October 2007, and we may continue to experience net losses in the future. Our net losses for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 were $63,908 thousand, $30,679 thousand, and $24,663 thousand, respectively. We expect to continue to make investments in the building and expansion of our business and platform and anticipate that our cost of revenues and operating expenses may increase. Additionally, as a public company, we now incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. We may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset any higher expenses, and our efforts to grow the business may prove more expensive than we currently anticipate. We may incur losses in the future for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for online learning by consumers, slowing demand for our other products and services, increasing competition, including increasing price competition, decreasing spending on learning and education by consumers, and other risks described herein. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown factors as we pursue our business plan and our business model continues to evolve. While our revenue has grown in recent periods, this growth may not be sustainable and we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability. The Companys operations and performance depend in part on economic conditions, and adverse economic conditions may adversely affect the Companys business, results of operations, and financial condition. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, slower growth or a recession, tighter credit, higher interest rates, and higher unemployment rates can adversely impact consumer confidence and spending and may adversely affect demand for the services provided on our platform. A regional or global health pandemic, including COVID-19, could severely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition due to impacts on Learners and Experts that use the platform, and consumer and institutional spending more broadly, as well as impacts from remote work and remote learning arrangements, actions taken to contain the disease or treat its impact, and the speed and extent of the recovery. A regional or global health pandemic, depending upon its duration and severity, could have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, the COVID-19 pandemic has had numerous effects on the global economy. Governmental authorities around the world have implemented measures to reduce the spread of COVID-19. These measures, including shutdowns and shelter-in-place orders suggested or mandated by governmental authorities or otherwise elected by companies as a preventive measure, adversely affected workforces, customers, consumer sentiment, economies, and financial markets, and, along with decreased consumer spending, led to an economic downturn in many of our markets. We are unable to accurately predict the impact that COVID-19 will have on our operations going forward due to uncertainties that will be dictated by the length of time that the pandemic and related disruptions continue, the impact of governmental regulations that might be imposed in response to the pandemic, and overall changes in consumer behavior. At this point, there remains significant uncertainty relating to the potential impact of COVID-19, including the impact to global and local economic conditions. Purchase and utilization of our offerings may be affected by changes in the U.S. economy and by global economic conditions, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as economic changes unrelated to the pandemic. Given the uncertainties associated with COVID-19 or any other regional or global health pandemic, it is difficult to fully predict the magnitude of potential effects on our business, both positive and negative, and our strategic partners, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or any other regional or global health pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this section. We contract with some individuals and entities classified as independent contractors, not employees, and if federal or state law mandates that they be classified as employees, our business may be adversely impacted. We engage independent contractors and are subject to the federal laws and regulations, including but not limited to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) regulations, and applicable state laws and regulations regarding independent contractor classification. These regulations and guidelines are subject to judicial and agency interpretation, and it could be determined that the independent contractor classification is inapplicable to the nature of the relationship between us and the independent contractors. Further, if legal standards for classification of independent contractors change, whether at the federal or state level, it may be necessary to change our business model or modify our compensation structure for these roles, including by paying additional compensation or reimbursing expenses (or whatever other requirements related to employees, versus independent contractors, are implicated by any such determination(s) or change(s)). 17 Table of Contents A determination in, or settlement of, any legal proceeding(s), whether we are party to such legal proceeding or not, that classifies independent contractors with whom we contract as employees, could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including as a result of: monetary exposure arising from or relating to failure to withhold and remit taxes, unpaid wages and wage and hour laws and requirements (such as those pertaining to failure to pay minimum wage and overtime, or to provide required breaks and wage statements), expense reimbursement, statutory and punitive damages, penalties, including related to attorney general actions by states, and government fines; injunctions prohibiting continuance of existing business practices; claims for employee benefits, social security, workers compensation, and unemployment; claims of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation under civil rights laws; manage the growth of our business, including increasing or unforeseen expenses; develop and scale a technology infrastructure to efficiently handle increased utilization by Learners, especially during peak periods; claims under laws pertaining to unionizing, collective bargaining, and other concerted activity; other claims, charges, or other proceedings under laws and regulations applicable to employers and employees, including risks relating to allegations of joint employer liability or agency liability; and harm to our reputation and brand. In 2022, the Company had approximately 20 thousand Active Experts with independent contractor agreements. The Company defines an Active Expert as having instructed one or more sessions in a given period. We engage all of the Experts as independent contractors, and therefore, any of these outcomes could result in substantial costs to us, could significantly impair our financial condition and our ability to conduct our business as we choose, and could damage our reputation and our ability to attract and retain Experts and employees. We may also choose to cease engaging with Experts who are located in jurisdictions where we may be prohibited or otherwise restricted from engaging Experts as independent contractors, which may adversely affect our business. Our business depends heavily on the adoption of our offerings by new and existing customers. If we fail to attract new Learners or retain existing Learners, our revenue growth and profitability may be adversely impacted. The success of our business depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain new and existing Learners for our online learning offerings and resources. The growth of our business also depends on the level of engagement by existing Learners with our platform. The substantial majority of our revenue depends on small transactions made by a widely dispersed population with an inherently high rate of turnover primarily as a result of changing needs. In 2022, our average revenue per Active Learner was one thousand thirty dollars. The rate at which we expand our user base of Active Learners and increase Active Learner engagement with our platform may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including: our ability to shift to Learning Memberships; our ability to consistently provide Learners with a convenient, high quality experience; the pricing of our offerings in relation to other alternatives, including the prices charged by offline competitors and other learning alternatives; the quality and prices of our products and services that we offer to Learners and those of our competitors and other learning alternatives; our ability to acquire and retain Learners of all age segments; changes in standardized testing or admissions requirements; changes in college or university enrollment; changes in online versus in-person attendance at schools, colleges, or universities; changes in professional licensure, certification requirements, or regulations; changes in learning-related spending levels by consumers and institutions; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; seasonal demands for our offerings may fluctuate with the seasonal nature of traditional academic calendars; and 18 Table of Contents our ability to introduce new products and services that are favorably received by Learners. If we do not attract more Learners to our platform and offerings or if Learners do not increase their level of engagement with our platform, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline. In particular, in order to engage new Learners, we need to convince Learners of our ability to provide high quality learning online that is better than offline and other online alternatives they may have. It may be difficult to overcome any skepticism, and there can be no assurance that online offerings of the kind we develop will ever achieve mass market acceptance. Additionally, changes in consumption patterns and experience could impact levels of revenue we recognize related to purchased but unused sessions, which could also impact our margins. If we are not successful in scaling up our new Learning Membership model we could suffer losses and our results of operations may suffer. We recently launched our Learning Membership model, which delivers a comprehensive learning solution that includes, among other things, access to one-on-one tutoring, unlimited live group classes, live and on-demand lessons, coding, tutor chat, essay review, adaptive assessments, and self-study modules. We have devoted significant resources and management time to launching our new membership program. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to grow the Learning Membership business or that Learning Memberships will be profitable. If we are not successful, we may suffer losses based on the expenses and resources devoted to pursuing this new strategy, and our results of operation may suffer. We rely on our new and existing Learners to drive utilization and to generate revenue . Building awareness of our product offerings and platform is critical to our ability to acquire prospective Learners, drive consumption and utilization, and generate revenue. A substantial portion of our expenses is attributable to marketing and sales efforts dedicated to attracting potential Learners to adopt our online learning offerings. Because we generate revenue based on Learners making purchases for services delivered through our platform, it is critical to our success that we identify prospective Learners in a cost-effective manner and that Learners purchase and remain active in our offerings. The following factors, many of which are largely outside of our control, may prevent us from successfully driving and maintaining purchase and utilization of our online offerings in a cost-effective manner or at all: Negative perceptions about online learning offerings and other non-traditional online services . As a non-traditional form of delivering learning and/or instruction direct-to-consumers over the internet, our online learning offerings will be subject to increased scrutiny by prospective Learners. Online product offerings that we or our competitors offer may not be successful or operate efficiently, and new entrants to the field of online learning also may not perform well. Such underperformance could create the perception that online offerings in general are not an effective way to learn or educate, whether or not our offerings achieve satisfactory performance, which could make it difficult for us to successfully attract prospective Learners. Additionally, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, telehealth services, and other non-traditional online services are becoming increasingly prevalent. If any of these online products or services fail to perform well, Learners may become reluctant to purchase or consume online offerings for fear that the learning experience may be substandard and begin to look for alternatives to online learning. Ineffective marketing efforts . We invest substantial resources in developing and implementing marketing and sales strategies that focus on identifying new Learners and Experts for our platform. If our execution of this strategy proves to be inefficient or unsuccessful in generating a sufficient quantity of high quality prospective Learners and Experts, our revenue could be adversely affected. Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other general economic and social conditions. Purchase and utilization of our offerings may be affected by changes in the U.S. economy and, to a lesser extent, by global economic conditions, including the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. If one or more of these factors reduces demand from Learners for our offerings, purchase or utilization could be negatively affected or our costs associated with acquisition and retention could increase, or both. These developments could also harm our reputation and make it more difficult for us to engage additional Learners or to produce new products and services, which would negatively impact our ability to expand our business. Illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activity of Experts and Learners, whether or not occurring while utilizing our platform, could expose us to liability and harm our business, brand, financial condition, and results of operations. Illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activities by Experts and Learners, including the activities of individuals who may have previously engaged with, but are not then receiving or providing services offered through, our platform could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. These activities may include harassment, sexual misconduct, unauthorized use of credit and debit cards or bank accounts, sharing of Learner accounts, sharing of Experts accounts, and other misconduct. While we have implemented various measures intended to anticipate, identify, and 19 Table of Contents address the risk of these types of activities, these measures may not adequately address or prevent all illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activity by these parties from occurring in connection with our offerings. Such conduct could expose us to liability or adversely affect our brand or reputation. At the same time, if the measures we have taken to guard against these illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activities, such as our requirement that Experts undergo third-party background checks as part of the initial contracting process and thereafter, periodic Google/internet checks done in-house and other related policies, are too restrictive and inadvertently prevent qualified Experts otherwise in good standing from using our offerings, or if we are unable to implement and communicate these measures fairly and transparently or are perceived to have failed to do so, the growth and retention of the number of qualified Experts on our platform and their utilization of our platform could be negatively impacted. Further, any negative publicity related to the foregoing, whether such incident occurred on our platform, on our competitors platforms, or on any online platform, could adversely affect our reputation and brand or public perception of our industry as a whole, which could negatively affect demand for platforms like ours and potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Many of our Learners are minors, which may subject us to significant and/or heightened litigation risks, regulatory scrutiny, and reputational damage. Because of the nature of our business, many of our Learners are minors under the age of 18. As a result, we may be subject to additional laws and regulations that are applicable when businesses interact with children, such as COPPA. Additionally, although transactions with minor children are ultimately authorized and paid for by a parent or guardian, these minor children may not have the capacity to enter into binding agreements or may have the ability to subsequently void contracts. As a result, we may not be able to enforce the terms of these agreements. An incident involving a child, and in particular an incident that has the potential to compromise the safety or privacy of a child, could garner negative attention, which could harm our brand or reputation and affect our business. We may be exposed to claims and losses, including class action lawsuits, brought by or on behalf of our Learners or Experts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be exposed to claims and losses, including class action lawsuits, brought by or on behalf of our Learners or Experts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have written contracts with Learners and Experts (either directly or through related and affiliated entities) that establish the terms and conditions of the relationships memorialized therein. Learners and Experts could seek to challenge those terms and conditions, including but not limited to: network access, usage by minors, recorded sessions, taxes, integration with other policies, confidentiality, content, restrictions, arbitration, disclaimer of warranties, limitation of liability, indemnification, third-party beneficiaries, non-solicitation provisions, non-disclosure provisions, non-exclusivity, non-disparagement, governing law/choice of law, jurisdiction, venue, notice requirements, affiliate marketing, other platform activities, contract termination (including early contract termination), authority, installment payments, subscriptions, refunds, minimum billing, redemptions, guarantees, compensation (and adjustments/additions thereto), independent contractor status, insurance, intellectual property rights, and economics of the relationships (noting that some of these items apply solely to Learners, some apply solely to Experts and some apply to both). We may incur fines and other losses or negative publicity with respect to these problems. Additionally, these claims may give rise to litigation, which could be time-consuming and expensive. New employment and labor laws and regulations may be proposed or adopted that may increase the potential exposure of employers to employment-related claims and litigation by our Experts. There can be no assurance that the corporate policies we have in place to help reduce our exposure to these risks will be effective or that we will not experience losses as a result of these risks. There can also be no assurance that the insurance policies we have purchased to insure against certain risks will be adequate or that insurance coverage will remain available on reasonable terms or be sufficient in amount or scope of coverage. Our reputation, brand, and the network effects among Experts and Learners on our platform are important to our success, and if we are not able to maintain and continue developing our reputation, brand, and network effects, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We believe that building a strong reputation and brand as a safe, reliable, and effective platform and continuing to increase the strength of the network effects among Experts and Learners on our platform are critical to our ability to attract and retain qualified Experts and Learners. The successful development of our reputation, brand, and network effects will depend on a number of factors, many of which are outside our control. Negative perception of our platform or company may harm our reputation, brand, and networks effects, including as a result of: complaints or negative publicity about us, Experts on our platform, our product offerings, or our policies and guidelines, including our practices and policies, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; 20 Table of Contents illegal, negligent, reckless, or otherwise inappropriate behavior by Experts, Learners, or third parties; a failure to provide Experts with competitive compensation and opportunities to work with Learners; actual or perceived disruptions or defects in our platform, such as privacy or data security breaches, site outages, payment disruptions, or other incidents that impact the reliability of our offerings; litigation regarding or investigations by regulators into, our platform or our business; Learners lack of awareness of, or compliance with, our policies and terms and conditions; Experts lack of awareness of, or compliance with, our terms and conditions; changes to our policies that Learners or others perceive as overly restrictive, unclear, or inconsistent with our values or mission, or that are not clearly articulated; changes to our terms and conditions that Experts perceive as overly restrictive, unclear, or inconsistent with our values, or mission or that are not clearly articulated; a failure to enforce our policies or terms and conditions in a manner that Learners, Experts, and other users perceive as effective, fair, and transparent; inadequate or unsatisfactory Learner support service experiences; illegal or otherwise inappropriate behavior by Experts, management team members, or other employees or contractors; negative responses by Experts or Learners to new offerings on our platform; political or social policies or activities; or any of the foregoing with respect to our competitors, to the extent such resulting negative perception affects the publics perception of us or our industry as a whole. Additionally, because we are a founder-led company, actions by or unfavorable publicity about, Charles Cohn, our Founder, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, may adversely impact our brand and reputation. If we do not successfully maintain and develop our brand, reputation, and network effects and successfully differentiate our offerings from competitive offerings, our business may not grow, we may not be able to compete effectively, and we could lose existing qualified Experts or existing Learners or fail to attract new qualified Experts or new Learners, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Attracting new Learners or institutions for the launch of new offerings is complex and time-consuming. If we pursue unsuccessful offerings, we may forego more profitable offerings and our operating results and growth would be harmed . The process of identifying new products and services that will be a good fit for our platform is complex and time-consuming. Because of the initial reluctance on the part of some Learners or institutions to embrace a new method of delivering their learning experience, the process to attract and engage a new Learner or institution can be lengthy. We invest significant resources in these new offerings and there is no guarantee that we will recoup these costs. As a result, we may ultimately be unable to recover the full investment that we make in a new offering or achieve our expected level of profitability for the offering. Attracting new Experts for our existing online offerings and the launch of new offerings is complex and time-consuming. If we pursue unsuccessful offerings, we may forego more profitable offerings and our operating results and growth would be harmed. To launch a new offering, we must integrate our platform with the relevant products, content, subject information, Experts with subject knowledge, and other operating model or platform modifications that we use to manage functions for our one-on-one instruction, small group classes, large format group classes, adaptive self-study, and other direct-to-consumer online learning offerings. This process of launching a new offering is time-consuming and costly and we are primarily responsible for the significant costs of this effort even before we generate any revenue. Additionally, we often need to attract new Experts to provide the new offerings that we launch and we are responsible for the associated costs. We invest significant resources in these new offerings and there is no guarantee that we will recoup these costs. The time that it takes for us to recover our investment in a new offering depends on a variety of factors, primarily the level of our acquisition costs and the rate of growth in Learner or institution purchases and/or repeat purchases of the product. Because of the lengthy period required to recoup our investment in an offering, unexpected developments beyond our control could occur that result in current Learners or institutions ceasing or significantly curtailing an offering before we are able to fully recoup our investment. It may be several years, if ever, before we generate revenue from a new offering sufficient to 21 Table of Contents recover our costs. As a result, we may ultimately be unable to recover the full investment that we make in a new offering or achieve our expected level of profitability for the offering. If we are not successful in quickly and efficiently scaling up offerings with new and existing Learners or institutions, our reputation and our results of operations results will suffer. Our continued growth and profitability depends on our ability to successfully scale up our existing and newly launched products. As we continue aggressively growing our business, we plan to continue to hire new employees at a rapid pace, particularly in software engineering, data science, product, design, marketing, sales, and customer service. If we cannot adequately recruit, train, or retain these new employees, we may not be successful in acquiring potential Learners or institutions for our offerings, which would adversely impact our ability to generate revenue. Additionally, the Learners or institutions in our offerings could lose confidence in the knowledge and capability of the Experts on the platform. If we cannot quickly and efficiently scale up our technology to handle growing purchases and utilization and new offerings, the Learners or institutions experiences with our platform may suffer, which could damage our reputation among Experts, Learners, and institutions. Our ability to effectively manage any significant growth of new offerings and increasing purchases and utilization will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: satisfy existing Learners and institutions in, and attract and engage new Learners or institutions for, our offerings; attract qualified Experts to support expanding offerings and utilization; develop and produce new products; successfully introduce new features and enhancements and maintain a high level of functionality in our platform; and deliver high quality technical support and customer service to Experts and Learners using our platform. Establishing new offerings or expanding existing offerings will require us to make investments in management and key staff, increased investments in our technology platform, incur additional marketing expenses, and reallocate other resources. If purchases or utilization of our offerings does not increase, we are unable to launch new offerings in a cost-effective manner, or we are otherwise unable to manage new offerings effectively, our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability would be impaired and the quality of our solutions and the satisfaction of the Learners and institutions using our platform could suffer. If we are not successful in scaling up our Institutional offerings to education systems, we could suffer losses and our results of operations will suffer. We launched an Institutional strategy with the introduction of Varsity Tutors for Schools in 2021, leveraging our existing platform capabilities to offer online learning solutions directly to education systems. We have devoted significant resources and management time, including hiring new personnel, in launching our new Institutional program. Since the 2021 launch, we have signed contracts with various education systems. However, there is no guarantee that we will continue to grow this program or that the program will be successful. If we are not successful, we may suffer losses based on the expenses and resources devoted to pursuing this new strategy and our results of operations will suffer. Contracts with institutions present unique risks and uncertainties that are not present when selling directly to Learners. Our Institutional strategy may present several types of risks and uncertainties inherent in contracting with institutions such as school districts. Many of the contracts that we have entered into with institutions since launching the program in 2021 are school-year contracts subject to annual renewal at the option of the institution. Any number of factors could cause an institution to not renew a contract or otherwise affect its willingness to contract with us, including budget cuts, negative publicity (whether or not the reason for such publicity is within our control), and changes in the composition of local school boards or changes in the institutions administration. See Our financial performance depends heavily on Learner retention within our offerings, and factors influencing Learner retention may be out of our control below. Any termination or non-renewal of a contract with an institution could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, and a termination or non-renewal caused by our failure to improve the poor academic performance of students enrolled in our programs could adversely affect our ability to secure contracts with other institutions. Additionally, the approval processes of some institutions, which are required for formal contract execution, are lengthy and cumbersome and, in many cases, are not completed prior to the time we begin performance. This means that we, at times, incur substantial costs prior to the formal execution of these agreements by institutions. Our financial performance depends heavily on Learner retention within our offerings, and factors influencing Learner retention may be out of our control. Once a Learner begins consuming one or more of our learning offerings, we must retain Learners to generate ongoing revenue from that Learner. Our strategy involves offering high quality support to Learners for a variety of needs in order to drive Learner satisfaction and retention. If we do not help Learners to quickly resolve any learning, technological, or logistical 22 Table of Contents issues they encounter, otherwise provide effective ongoing support to Learners, or deliver the type of high quality, engaging offerings that Learners expect, they may withdraw from our offerings, which would negatively impact our revenue. Additionally, Learner retention could be compromised by the following factors, many of which are largely outside of our control: Learner dissatisfaction or changes in preference . Learners may decline to continue in our offerings based on their individual perceptions of the value they are getting from us. For example, we may face retention challenges as a result of Learners dissatisfaction with the quality of the platform, quality of the Experts, level and quality of customer service, platform reliability, or other factors. Factors outside our control related to Learners satisfaction with, and overall perception of, an offering may contribute to decreased retention rates for that offering. Poor performance by Experts . Experts that are responsible for instructing may not understand what is involved in meeting Learner expectations, or may otherwise be unwilling to change the ways in which they would present the same content in an in-person setting. Our ability to maintain high Learner retention will depend in part on the ability of the Experts to devote the necessary time and effort to develop their own teaching style(s), lesson plans, course curriculum, and content. Inability of Experts to meet Learner needs could cause the quality of the instruction and the quality of the customer experience to decline, which could contribute to decreased Learner satisfaction and retention. Personal factors . Factors impacting a Learners willingness and ability to stay engaged in an offering include personal factors, such as ability to continue to pay for the offering(s), lack of interest in continuing to learn in a particular area, distractions in the Learners learning environment, and sufficient time to engage in the offering(s), all of which are generally beyond our control. Circumvention of the platform/Disintermediation . Although both Learners and Experts are contractually prohibited from doing so, Learners and Experts may make arrangements for services and payments outside of our platform or through another platform, which may contribute to decreased retention rates, in addition to lost revenue. Additionally, we will also need to retain the institutions that we contract with to generate ongoing revenue from that institution and such retention could be compromised by the following factors, many of which are largely outside of our control: Timing of school and school districts funding sources and budget cycle . Our ability to generate revenue from institutions such as schools and school districts may be adversely affected by decreased government funding of education. Public school funding is heavily dependent on support from federal, state, and local governments and is sensitive to government budgets. Additionally, the government appropriations process is often slow and unpredictable. Funding difficulties also could cause schools to be more resistant to price increases in our products and services, compared to other businesses that might be better able to pass on price increases to their customers. Negative publicity. Institutions are particularly sensitive to any actual or perceived integrity issues, Any negative publicity (whether or not within our control) could cause school districts that currently employ our services to satisfy their needs in the future by alternative means. Changes in the composition of the school board or changes in school administration . Our contracts with schools and school districts are typically school-year contracts subject to annual renewal at the option of the school or school district, and in many instances the school or school district can terminate or modify the contracts at their convenience. Changes in the composition of the school board or changes in the school administration could lead to terminations or non-renewals even if there are no issues with our products and offerings. Any of these factors could significantly reduce the revenue that we generate, which would negatively impact our operations and could compromise our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability. We have grown rapidly and expect to continue to invest in our growth for the foreseeable future. If we fail to manage this growth effectively, the success of our business model may be compromised. We have experienced rapid growth in a relatively short period of time. Our revenue grew from $103,968 thousand in 2020 to $140,664 thousand in 2021 and $162,665 thousand in 2022. The number of our full and part-time employees increased from approximately 500 as of December 31, 2020 to approximately seven hundred as of December 31, 2022. Additionally, we currently contract with thousands of independent contractors, and we plan to vet and contract with additional independent contractors to engage as Experts on the platform in the future. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure and other resources. Our ability to manage our operations and growth may require us to continue to expand our marketing and sales personnel, technology team, finance, accounting, legal, and administration teams, as well as our infrastructure. We will be required to refine our operational, financial, and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. If we fail to efficiently manage this expansion of our business, our costs and expenses may increase more than we 23 Table of Contents plan and we may not successfully expand our customer base, enhance our platform and technology-enabled services, develop new offerings with new and existing customers, attract a sufficient number of new customers in a cost-effective manner, attract a sufficient number of qualified Experts in a cost-effective manner, satisfy the requirements of our existing customers, respond to competitive challenges, or otherwise execute our business plan. Although our business has experienced significant growth in the past, we cannot provide any assurance that our revenue will continue to grow at the same rate in the future. Our ability to effectively manage any significant growth of our business will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: effectively recruit, onboard, motivate, and retain new employees, including in software engineering, data science, product, design, marketing, sales, and customer service, while retaining existing employees, maintaining the most important aspects of our corporate culture and effectively executing our business plan; effectively recruit, vet, contract, and curate new independent contractors, while retaining existing independent contractors, maintaining and improving our platform and its curation in connection with effectively executing our business plan; continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls; protect and further develop our strategic assets, including our intellectual property rights; and make sound business decisions in light of the scrutiny associated with operating as a public company. These activities will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources, and our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. There are no guarantees that we will be able to effectively manage any future growth in an efficient, cost-effective, or timely manner, or at all. In particular, any failure to successfully implement systems enhancements and improvements will likely negatively impact our ability to manage our expected growth, ensure uninterrupted operation of key business systems, and comply with the rules and regulations that are applicable to public reporting companies. Moreover, if we do not effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, the quality of our offerings could suffer, which could negatively affect our reputation, results of operations, and overall business. We face competition from established, as well as other emerging companies, which could divert customers to our competition, result in pricing pressure, and significantly reduce our revenue. We expect existing competitors and new entrants to the online learning market to constantly revise and improve their business models in response to challenges from competing businesses, including ours. If these or other market participants introduce new or improved delivery of direct-to-consumer and institutional online learning and technology-enabled services that we cannot match or exceed in a timely or cost-effective manner, our ability to grow our revenue and achieve profitability could be compromised. We compete against thousands of companies and hundreds of thousands of independent professionals. Some of our current, tangential, and potential competitors have significantly greater financial resources than we do. Increased competition may result in competitive pressure for us or a decrease in our market share, which could negatively affect our revenue and future operating results and our ability to grow our business. A number of competitive factors could cause us to lose potential opportunities or force us to offer our solutions on less favorable economic terms, including: competitors may develop service offerings that Learners find to be more compelling than ours; competitors may adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive sales terms and adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in student requirements; competitors may offer better compensation to Experts or divert qualified Experts from our platform; and current and potential competitors may establish relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and expand their markets, and our industry is likely to see an increasing number of new entrants and increased consolidation. Accordingly, new competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Additionally, competition may intensify as our competitors raise additional capital and as established companies in other market segments or geographic markets expand into our market segments or geographic markets. If we cannot compete successfully against our competitors, our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability could be impaired. 24 Table of Contents Our business is affected by seasonality driven by school and standardized testing schedules. Our business is affected by the general seasonal trends common to education, tutoring, and standardized testing markets in the markets we serve. We have observed increased traffic during the late summer and early fall months of August and September as Learners seek educational enrichment tools to start the school year. We have also historically observed increased traffic on our platform in advance of standardized tests. Our school-based offerings may also be impacted by the timing of school districts funding sources and budget cycles. This seasonality may adversely affect our business and cause our results of operations to fluctuate. Part of our revenue is based on demand related to certain tests and admissions to certain types of schools, which could face headwinds. College and graduate school attendance dropped during the COVID-19 pandemic, resulting in decreased demand for both academic and test prep-related support. Testing for both professional and standardized exams including the Series Exams, GMAT, LSAT, GRE, MCAT, NCLEX, GMAT, LSAT, SAT, ACT, and numerous other exams were cancelled or had testing center and test administration problems during the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, some universities moved to test optional admissions that do not require a standardized test score related to one or more of these exams. If this trend becomes pervasive, or if it extends to all of standardized testing at all age and education levels, it could have a negative impact on our business. We may need additional capital in the future to pursue our business objectives. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, which could compromise our ability to grow our business. We believe that our existing cash balances will be sufficient to meet our minimum anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, need to raise additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, accelerate our growth, develop new offerings, or enhance our platform. If we seek to raise additional capital, it may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all. Lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to manage our business and to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or debt securities with an equity component would dilute our stock ownership. If adequate additional funds are not available if and when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy. Individuals that appear in content hosted on our platform may claim violation of their agreements. Experts and Learners that appear in video segments hosted or digital images located on our platform may claim that proper assignments, licenses, consents, and releases were not obtained for use of their likenesses, images, or other contributed content. Experts and Learners are contractually required to ensure that proper assignments, licenses, consents, and releases are obtained for their course material, but we cannot know with certainty that they have obtained all necessary rights. Moreover, the laws governing rights of publicity and privacy and the laws governing copyright or ownership, are imprecise and adjudicated on a case-by-case basis, such that the enforcement of agreements to transfer the necessary rights, if any, is unclear. As a result, we could incur liability to third parties for the unauthorized duplication, display, distribution, or other use of this content. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our various liability insurance coverages may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter or cease our use of such material, which may include changing or removing content from courses, or to pay monetary damages. Moreover, claims by Experts and Learners could damage our reputation, regardless of whether such claims have merit. Our employees located outside of the U.S. and the international residents accessing our platform and purchasing our offerings expose us to international risks. Operating in international markets requires significant resources, management attention, and subjects us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the U.S. We have international employees in Canada and the United Kingdom. Because we have employees in Canada and the United Kingdom, we are subject to the compensation and benefits regulations of those jurisdictions, which differ from compensation and benefits regulations in the U.S. Further, acquiring international applicants and purchases or utilization by international Learners requires us to comply with international data privacy regulations of the countries from which we draw applicants or from which our offerings draw Learners to our platform. Failure to comply with international regulations or to adequately adapt to international markets could harm our ability to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. 25 Table of Contents Experts may access the platform and continue to offer one-on-one and group instruction from any location in which they have access to our platform, even if located outside of the U.S., which exposes us to international risks. Experts may access the platform and continue to offer one-on-one and group instruction from any location in which they have access to our platform, even if located outside of the U.S., which exposes us to international risks. While we primarily operate in the U.S. today, the products and services on our platform are digitally delivered over the internet and therefore Experts and Learners worldwide can interface with our platform. We cannot be certain that we are in compliance with country-specific laws, including those related to data privacy, consumer protection, labor and employment, among others. Moreover, we may contract with Experts who have provided a U.S. address but may actually be residents of non-US jurisdictions, or an Expert could change geographic locations without our awareness. While we attempt to monitor the location of Experts, and terminate contracts where we are aware that an Expert has moved to a restricted or governmentally prohibited geography, we are subject to risks that could arise when Experts access our platform from new or foreign locations. Failures of our platform, or disruption to its access, could reduce Learners and Experts satisfaction with our offerings and could harm our reputation. The performance and reliability of our platform, and its uninterrupted access, are critical to our operations, reputation, and ability to attract new Learners and Experts, as well as our acquisition and retention of Learners and Experts already using our platform. Learners and Experts both rely on our technology platform to receive and provide their online offerings, which requires them to be able access to our platform on a frequent, as-needed basis. Accordingly, any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our platform, including features in third-party products that restrict or prevent access to our platform or our ability to adequately communicate with Learners and Experts, could damage our reputation, decrease satisfaction and retention, and impact our ability to attract new Learners and Experts in the future. If any of these problems occur, Learners and Experts may decide to terminate their relationship with us, not repurchase or renew, or make claims against us. Additionally, we license certain technology from third parties and the failure by any of these licensed technologies to perform could similarly harm our ability to provide these services and our reputation in the marketplace. Our online systems, including our website and mobile apps, could contain undetected errors, or bugs, that could adversely affect their performance. Additionally, we regularly update and enhance our website, platform, and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software products and apps. These updates may contain undetected errors when first introduced or released, which may cause disruptions in our services and may, as a result, cause us to lose market share, and our brand, business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our security measures are breached or fail and result in unauthorized disclosure of data, we could lose Learners, Experts, institutions, and employees; fail to attract new Learners, Experts, institutions, and employees; and could be exposed to protracted and costly litigation. Our business involves the storage, processing, and transmission of Learners, Experts, and other users proprietary, confidential and personal data, as well as the use of third-party partners who store, process, and transmit users proprietary, confidential, and personal data. We also maintain certain other proprietary and confidential data relating to our business and personal data of our personnel and applicants. There are risks of security incidents both on and off our systems as we increase the types of technology used to operate our platform, which includes mobile apps and third-party payment processing providers. Any security breach or incident that we experience could result in unauthorized access to, misuse of, or unauthorized acquisition of our or users data, the loss, corruption, or alteration of this data, interruptions in our operations, or damage to our computers or systems or those of our users. We have experienced attempted security incidents in the past and we may face additional attempted security intrusions in the future. Any such incidents could expose us to claims, litigation, regulatory, or other governmental investigations, administrative fines, and potential liability. An increasing number of online services have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their services. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not foreseeable or recognized until launched against a target, we and our third-party partners may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our or our third-party vendors and suppliers security occurs, public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and brand could be harmed, and we could lose users. Data security breaches and other cybersecurity incidents may also result from non-technical means, for example, actions by employees, contractors, or vendors. Any compromise of our or our third-party vendors and suppliers security could result in a violation of applicable security, privacy, or data protection; consumer and other laws; regulatory or other governmental investigations; enforcement actions; and legal and financial exposure, including potential contractual liability, in all cases that may not always be limited to the amounts covered by our insurance. Any such compromise could also result in damage to our brand and a loss of confidence in our security and privacy or data protection measures. 26 Table of Contents Our systems and the systems we use under contract with third-parties may be vulnerable to computer viruses and other malicious software, physical or electronic break-ins, or weakness resulting from intentional or unintentional actions by us, our third-party service providers, as well as similar disruptions that could make all or portions of our website or apps unavailable for periods of time. While we currently employ various antivirus and computer protection software in our operations, we cannot assure you that such protections will in all cases successfully prevent hacking or the transmission of any computer virus, ransomware, or malware, which could result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including to our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and the inadvertent disclosure of personal, confidential, or sensitive data; interruptions in access to our website through the use of denial of service; or similar attacks, and other material adverse effects on our operations. Further, we may need to expend significant resources to protect against, and to address issues created by, security breaches and other security incidents. Security breaches and other security incidents, including any breaches of our security measures or those of parties with which we have commercial relationships (e.g., third-party service providers who provide development or other services to us or through our platform) that result in the unauthorized access of users confidential, proprietary, or personal data or the belief that any of these have occurred, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Significant unavailability of our platform due to attacks could cause users to cease using our platform and materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we maintain cybersecurity liability insurance, we cannot be certain our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or will continue to be available to us on reasonable terms, or at all. Many jurisdictions have or are considering enacting privacy or data protection laws or regulations relating to the collection, use, storage, transfer, disclosure, and/or other processing of personal data. Such laws and regulations may include data residency or data localization requirements (which generally require that certain types of data collected within a certain country be stored and processed within that country), data export restrictions or international transfer laws (which prohibit or impose conditions upon the transfer of such data from one country to another), requirements that companies implement privacy or data protection and security policies or requirements that companies grant individuals certain rights, such as the right to access, correct, and delete personal data stored or maintained by such companies, be informed of security breaches that affect their personal data, or provide consent to use their personal data for other purposes. While we have implemented various measures intended to enable us to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations, and contractual obligations, these measures may not always be effective and do not guarantee compliance. Additionally, privacy or data protection laws and regulations may be modified, interpreted, and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another; and may conflict with one another, other requirements, or legal obligations, or our practices. Further, the existence and need to comply in certain markets could impact our ability to make our platform available in those markets (without taking additional compliance steps). Cultural norms around privacy or data protection also vary from country to country and can drive a need to localize or customize certain features of our platform in order to address varied privacy or data protection concerns, which can add cost and time to our development of new features and platform enhancements. We depend on third-party vendors, tools, and platforms for services including but not limited to hosting, discovery, advertising, delivering content, and more. We depend on major vendors for services including but not limited to hosting, discovery, advertising, delivering content, and more. In addition to proprietary technologies, we also rely on third-party tools and platforms for delivering certain products and services. These vendors and other third parties could change their rules, cost structure, marketing programs, and/or algorithms from time to time and any such changes could adversely impact our ability to generate revenue or deliver paid products and services. If we do not sufficiently differentiate the customer experience for Learners, including product interactions, we may not attract or retain Learners at the same levels. Computer malware, viruses, ransomware, hacking, phishing attacks, spamming, and other cyber-related incidents could harm our business and results of operations. Computer malware, viruses, ransomware, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions could lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations and loss, misuse, or theft of data. Computer malware, viruses, ransomware, computer hacking, and phishing attacks against online networking platforms have become more prevalent and may occur on our systems in the future. We believe that we could be a target for such attacks because of the incidence of hacking among students. Any attempts by hackers to disrupt our website service or our internal systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation or brand. Our cybersecurity liability insurance may not be sufficient to cover significant expenses and losses related to direct attacks on our website or internal system. Efforts to prevent hackers from entering our computer systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of our services. Though it is difficult to determine what, if any, harm may directly result from any specific interruption or attack, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security, and availability of our offerings and technical infrastructure may harm our reputation, brand, 27 Table of Contents and our ability to attract Learners and Experts to our platform. Any significant disruption to our website or internal systems could result in a loss of Learners and Experts and, particularly if disruptions occur during the peak periods at the beginnings of each academic term, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Additionally, depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a security breach or other privacy or security related incident, we may also have obligations to notify affected individuals and regulators about the incident, and we may need to provide some form of remedy, such as a subscription to credit monitoring services, payment of significant fines, or payment of compensation in connection with a class-action settlement (including under international and state privacy laws). Such breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises our, our users, our employees, or other confidential or personal information. Our platform contains open source software components, and failure to comply with the terms of the underlying licenses could restrict our ability to market or operate our platform. We use open source software in connection with our technology and services. Some open source software licenses require those who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code (including proprietary code) to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. The use of such open source code may ultimately require us to replace certain code used on our platform or discontinue certain aspects of our platform. From time to time, we may face claims from third parties claiming infringement of their intellectual property rights, or demanding the release or license of the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software (which could include our proprietary source code) or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could result in litigation and could require us to pay substantial damages, publicly release the affected portions of our source code, and be limited in or cease using the implicated software unless and until we can re-engineer such software to avoid infringement or change the use of, or remove, the implicated open source software. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as the original developers of open source code generally do not provide warranties (with respect to, for example, non-infringement or functionality) or indemnities or other contractual protections. Our use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the source code for open source software is publicly available, which may make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to breach our website and systems that rely on open source software. Any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage. Our business accepts payments by credit card that, among other payment methods, are subject to government regulations and other requirements. In order to process credit card payments, we are required to comply with payment rules established by payment card networks, such as the Payment Card Industry and its Data Security Standard. Our failure to comply with these laws or requirements could result in fines or impact our ability to accept payments in the future. Any restrictions that impact our ability to accept payments in the future will affect our business, including loss of credit card acceptance privileges. Some jurisdictions have adopted laws that govern payments and other financial activities. These laws could require us to obtain money transmitter licenses, or other licenses or approval for financial transactions, that may cause disruption regarding our ability to accept credit card payments, thereby impacting our sales and revenue. If we do not retain our senior management team and key employees, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management team. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of our employees, including our senior management team, other than a key-person insurance policy on Mr. Cohn. The loss of the services of any individual on our senior management team could make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. Our future success also depends heavily on the retention of personnel from our software engineering, data science, product, design, marketing, sales, and customer service teams that are necessary to continue to attract and retain customers in our offerings, thereby generating revenue for us. In particular, our highly-skilled technical employees are responsible for maintaining and enhancing our products and platform, which ultimately have a significant impact on customer satisfaction and retention. Competition for these employees is heightened. As a result, we may be unable to attract or retain these key personnel that are critical to our success, resulting in harm to our relationships with customers, loss of expertise or know-how, and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. 28 Table of Contents Increased input costs, including costs for Experts, or limited availability of Experts, could negatively impact our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our input costs, including costs for Experts, could increase due to factors such as labor shortages, increased compliance costs associated with new or changing government regulations, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) and other outbreaks of contagious diseases, and general inflationary conditions. Accordingly, changes in input costs may limit our ability to maintain existing margins. While we try to manage the impact of increases of certain input costs by increasing the prices of our products and services, we may fail in attempting to effectively execute these price increases. Therefore, the prices charged for our products and services may not reflect changes in our input costs at the time they occur or at all. The negative impacts related to input cost inflation, as well as a potential shortage of Experts, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risks Related to Regulations Our activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations and other requirements, and these regulations are subject to change. Our business is subject to regulation at both the federal and state levels in the United States across a range of subject areas, including privacy, data protection, consumer protection, and others, such as the Americans with Disabilities Act (the ADA). Many jurisdictions have or are considering enacting privacy or data protection laws or regulations relating to the collection, use, storage, transfer, disclosure, and/or other processing of personal data. Such laws and regulations may include data residency or data localization requirements (which generally require that certain types of data collected within a certain country be stored and processed within that country), data export restrictions or international transfer laws (which prohibit or impose conditions upon the transfer of such data from one country to another), requirements that companies implement privacy or data protection and security policies or requirements that companies grant individuals certain rights, such as the right to access, correct, and delete personal data stored or maintained by such companies, be informed of security breaches that affect their personal data, or provide consent to use their personal data for other purposes. While we have implemented various measures intended to enable us to comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations, and contractual obligations, these measures may not always be effective and do not guarantee compliance. Additionally, privacy or data protection laws and regulations may be modified, interpreted, and applied in an inconsistent manner from one jurisdiction to another, and may conflict with one another, other requirements, or legal obligations or our practices. Further, the existence and need to comply in certain markets could impact our ability to offer our platform in those markets (without taking additional compliance steps). As we continue to expand into new markets outside the U.S., regulations and cultural norms around privacy or data protection will vary from country to country and can drive a need to localize or customize certain features of our platform in order to address varied privacy or data protection concerns, which can add cost and time to our development of new features and platform enhancements. Our business may also be subject to laws specific to students, such as the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). State laws and regulations targeting protection of students continue to be proposed and enacted. While we have implemented various measures intended to enable us to comply with these laws focused on students, these measures may not always be effective and do not guarantee compliance. Future changes in these laws and regulations could raise our compliance costs and result in liabilities for us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in laws or regulations relating to consumer data privacy or data protection, or any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with such laws and regulations or our privacy policies, could materially and adversely affect our business. We receive, collect, store, process, transfer, and use personal data and other user data. The effectiveness of our ability to offer our platform to Learners and Experts relies on the collection, storage, and use of this data concerning other Learners and Experts, including personally identifying or other sensitive data. Our collection and use of this data might raise privacy and data protection concerns, which could negatively impact the demand for our services. Privacy and data protection laws could restrict or add regulatory and compliance processes to our ability to effectively use and profit from those services. There are numerous federal, state, and international laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, information security, and the collection, storing, sharing, use, processing, transfer, disclosure, and protection of personal data and other content (such as the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, the TCPA, the FCRA, FTC guidelines related to communications with consumers, COPPA, CCPA, CPRA, CPPA, CTDPA, VCDPA, CPA, UCPA, the UK Data Protection Act, the General Data Protection Regulation, among others), the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent among countries or conflict with other laws and regulations. We are also subject to the terms of our privacy policies, and obligations to third parties related to privacy, data protection, and information security. We strive to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, and other legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection and information security to the extent possible. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable 29 Table of Contents to our business operations may limit the use and adoption of our services and reduce overall demand for them. However, the regulatory framework for privacy and data protection worldwide is, and is likely to remain for the foreseeable future, uncertain and complex, and it is possible that these or other actual or alleged obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that we do not anticipate or that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Further, any significant change to applicable laws, regulations, or industry practices regarding the collection, use, retention, security, or disclosure of personal data, or their interpretation, or any changes regarding the manner in which the consent of users or other data subjects for the collection, use, retention, or disclosure of such data must be obtained, could increase our costs and require us to modify our services and features, possibly in a material manner, which we may be unable to complete, and may limit our ability to store and process user data or develop new services and features. If we were found in violation of any applicable privacy or data protection laws or regulations, our business may be materially and adversely affected, and we would likely have to change our business practices and potentially the services and features available through our platform. Additionally, these laws and regulations could impose significant costs on us and could make it more difficult for us to use our current technology to promote certain offerings through the platform. Additionally, if a breach of data security were to occur, or other violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations were to be alleged, solutions may be perceived as less desirable and our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We also expect that there will continue to be new laws, regulations, and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection, and information security proposed and enacted in various jurisdictions, such as those passed in Nevada, California, Colorado, Virginia, Connecticut, Utah and other states, which are continuing to emerge and evolve. These laws may lead other states to pass comparable legislation, with potentially greater penalties and more rigorous compliance requirements relevant to our business. The effects of state regulations and other similar state or federal laws, are significant and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and potential liability in an effort to comply with such legislation. Additionally, the CCPA and other legal and regulatory changes are making it easier for certain individuals to opt-out of having their personal data processed and disclosed to third parties through various opt-out mechanisms, which could result in an increase to our operational costs to ensure compliance with such legal and regulatory changes. In recent years, there has also been an increase in attention to and regulation of data protection and data privacy across the globe, including in the U.S. with the increasingly active approach of the FTC to enforcing data privacy under the FTC Act Section 5 of the Unfair and Deceptive Acts framework. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or any other legal obligations or regulatory requirements relating to privacy, data protection, or information security may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and could result in significant liability, cause our users to lose trust in us, and otherwise materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the Experts on our platform may limit the adoption and use of, and reduce the overall demand for, our platform. Additionally, if third parties we work with violate applicable laws, regulations, or agreements, such violations may put our users data at risk, could result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, fines, litigation, claims, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others, and could result in significant liability, cause our users to lose trust in us and otherwise materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Further, public scrutiny of, or complaints about, technology companies or their data handling or data protection practices, even if unrelated to our business, industry, or operations, may lead to increased scrutiny of technology companies, including us, and may cause government agencies to enact additional regulatory requirements, or to modify their enforcement or investigation activities, which may increase our costs and risks. Additionally, certain actions of our users that are deemed to be a misuse of or unauthorized disclosure of another users personal data could negatively affect our reputation and brand and impose liability on us. While we have adopted policies regarding the misuse or unauthorized disclosure of personal data obtained through our services by our users and retain authority to put a hold on or permanently disable user accounts, users could nonetheless misuse or disclose another users personal data. The safeguards we have in place may not be sufficient to avoid liability on our part or avoid harm to our reputation and brand, especially if such misuse or unauthorized disclosure of personal data was high profile, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our user base, and our business and financial results. If the personally identifiable information we collect from Learners or Experts is unlawfully acquired, accessed, or obtained, we could be required to pay substantial fines and bear the cost of investigating the data breach and providing notice to individuals whose personally identifiable information was unlawfully accessed. In providing services to Learners and contracting with Experts to provide offerings to Learners, we collect personally identifiable information from Learners, prospective Learners, and Experts, and prospective Experts, such as names, birth dates, contact information, and payment information, as well as limited access to social security numbers of employees and Experts 30 Table of Contents through third-party systems. In the event that the personally identifiable information is unlawfully accessed or acquired, the majority of states and many jurisdictions have laws that require institutions to investigate and immediately disclose the data breach to impacted individuals, usually in writing. In addition to costs associated with investigating and fully disclosing a data breach in such instances, we could be subject to substantial monetary fines or private claims by affected parties and our reputation would likely be harmed. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We operate in an industry with extensive intellectual property litigation, and we have been, and may be in the future, subject to claims related to a violation of third-partys intellectual property rights. Such claims against us or our important vendors and suppliers, even where meritless, can be costly to defend and may hurt our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to avoid infringing intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. The technology and software fields generally are characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and many companies that own, or claim to own, intellectual property have aggressively asserted their rights. From time to time, we have been and may be subject to legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will assert intellectual property claims against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. Additionally, some of our agreements with certain third parties may require us to indemnify others against claims that our platform infringes a third-partys intellectual property rights. Future litigation may be necessary to defend against intellectual property infringement claims or to establish our proprietary rights. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and would be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. Additionally, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us. Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing patents or other intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: hurt our reputation; adversely affect our relationships with our current or future Learners, Experts, schools, school districts, or other instructors or business relationships; cause delays or stoppages in providing our offerings; divert managements attention and resources; require technology changes to our platform or other software that could cause us to incur substantial cost; subject us to significant liabilities; or require us to cease some or all of our activities. In addition to liability for monetary damages against us, which may include attorneys fees and/or treble damages in the event of a finding of willful infringement, or, in some circumstances, damages against Experts, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing, or continuing to provide some or all of our bundled technology-enabled solutions unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our ability to compete effectively depends, in part, upon protection of our rights in trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights. We rely on and plan to rely on contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and agreements, and trademark, copyright, unfair competition, trade secret, and other laws to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, and such measures may be inadequate. We may be unable to preclude third parties from misappropriating or infringing our technology and intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and protect our proprietary information. Any litigation or claims brought by us could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. If the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to customers and potential customers may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract customers may be adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Third parties may challenge any copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property and proprietary rights owned or held by us. Third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe, misappropriate, or otherwise violate our copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property and proprietary rights and we may not be able to prevent infringement, misappropriation, or other violation without substantial expense to us. Additionally, if we fail to protect our domain names, it could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for Learners to find our website, our content, and our services. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, an adverse decision could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, limit the value of our intellectual property or proprietary rights, or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, while we have written contracts with Learners and Experts (either directly or through related and affiliated entities) that establish the terms and conditions of the relationships memorialized therein, Learners and Experts could seek to challenge those terms and conditions, including but not limited to network access, recorded sessions, confidentiality, content restrictions, disclosure provisions, and other intellectual property rights. We have not faced litigation on these agreements or the provisions therein and accordingly there is uncertainty as to whether any or all of these protective provisions would be enforceable. Risks Related to the Ownership of Class A Common Stock, Our Status as a Public Company, and the Tax Receivable Agreement Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have historically fluctuated due to seasonality, changes in consumer behavior, and changes in our business, and our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: timing of our costs incurred in connection with the launch of new offerings and the delay in receiving revenue from these new offerings, which delay may last for several years; seasonal variation driven by the seasonal nature of traditional academic calendars; changes in Learner purchases, utilization, and retention levels in our offerings; changes in our key metrics or the methods used to calculate our key metrics; changes in our pricing; changes in the mix of our product offerings; timing and amount of our marketing and sales expenses; costs necessary to improve and maintain our software platform; and changes in the prospects of the economy generally, which could alter current or prospective customers spending priorities or could increase the time it takes us to launch new offerings. Our operating results may fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in some future periods, which could cause the market price of Class A Common Stock to decline substantially. The trading price of the shares of Class A Common Stock may be volatile, and purchasers of the Class A Common Stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies and learning technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price for our Class A Common Stock may be influenced by many factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; conditions or trends in our industry; changes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic or macroeconomic events; 32 Table of Contents stock market price and volume fluctuations of comparable companies and, in particular, those that operate in the software and information technology industries; announcements by us or our competitors of new product or service offerings, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; the publics reaction to our press releases, our other public announcements, and our filings with the SEC; capital commitments; commencement of, or involvement in, litigation involving Nerdy Inc. (or its subsidiaries and affiliated entities); investors general perception of our company and our business; recruitment or departure of key personnel, including Charles Cohn, our Founder, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer; sales of Class A Common Stock, including sales by our directors and officers or specific stockholders changes in Nerdy Inc.s capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; and the volume of shares of Class A Common Stock available for public sale. Additionally, in the past, stockholders have initiated class action lawsuits against technology companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of these companies stock. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could cause us to incur substantial costs and divert managements attention and resources from our business. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports or publish unfavorable research or reports about us, our business, or our market, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A Common Stock may be influenced by the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not have any control over the analysts or the content and opinions included in their reports. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrade our stock or issue other unfavorable commentary or research. If one or more equity research analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Concentration of ownership among members of our senior management, our existing directors, and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions . Concentration of ownership among members of our senior management, our existing directors, and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. As a result, members of our senior management, our existing directors, and principal stockholders, if they were to act together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other significant corporate transactions. For example, Mr. Cohn, our Founder, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer, has the right to designate a certain number of directors based on his stock ownership and currently has the right to designate three directors. Moreover, some of these persons or entities may have interests different than yours. For example, because many of these stockholders have held their shares for a long period, they may be more interested in selling our company to an acquirer than other investors, or they may want us to pursue strategies that deviate from the interests of other stockholders. We are an emerging growth company and a smaller reporting company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we take advantage of certain exemptions from disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies or smaller reporting companies, our Class A Common Stock may be less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions and relief from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. In particular, while we are an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; we will be subject to reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and we will not be required to hold non-binding advisory votes on executive compensation or stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Additionally, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the 33 Table of Contents adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we will adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard and will do so until such time that we either (i) irrevocably elect to opt out of such extended transition period or (ii) no longer qualify as an emerging growth company. We may be an emerging growth company until the fiscal year-end following the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, though we may cease to be an emerging growth company earlier under certain circumstances, including if (i) we have more than $1,235,000 thousand in annual revenue in any fiscal year, (ii) the market value of our shares of common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700,000 thousand as of any June 30 or (iii) we issue more than $1,000,000 thousand of non-convertible debt over a three-year period. The exact implications of the JOBS Act are subject to interpretation and guidance by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to take advantage of all of the benefits of the JOBS Act. Additionally, investors may find our Class A Common Stock less attractive to the extent we rely on the exemptions and relief granted by the JOBS Act. If some investors find our Class A Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A Common Stock and our stock price may decline or become more volatile. Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited financial statements. We expect to remain a smaller reporting company at the last day of the fiscal year as long as (i) the market value of our shares of common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $250,000 thousand as of the prior June 30, or (ii) our annual revenues are less than $100,000 thousand during the prior fiscal year and the market value of our shares of common stock held by non-affiliates is less than $700,000 thousand as of the prior June 30. To the extent we take advantage of such reduced disclosure obligations, it may also make comparison of our financial statements with other public companies difficult or impossible. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting and effective disclosure