Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (Business Combination). We have reviewed, and continue to review, a number of opportunities to enter into a Business Combination with an operating business, but we are not able to determine at this time whether we will complete a Business Combination with any of the target businesses that we have reviewed or with any other target business. We intend to consummate a Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering (the Public Offering) that closed on October 9, 2020 (the Close Date) and the private placement of warrants to purchase our Class A ordinary shares (Private Placement Warrants) that occurred at the Close Date, and from additional issuances of, if any, our capital stock and our debt, or a combination of cash, stock and debt. At September 30, 2020, we held cash of $125,887 and current liabilities of $1,053,845. Further, we expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations For the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and the period from July 11, 2019 (Inception) to September 30, 2019, we incurred net losses of $19,943 and $8,494, respectively. Our business activities from Inception to September 30, 2020 consisted primarily of costs associated with our formation. Our business activities since our Public Offering have consisted solely of identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition targets for a Business Combination. Liquidity and Capital Resources Prior to the closing of the Public Offering (as described below), our only source of liquidity was an initial sale of Class F ordinary shares (the Founder Shares), par value $0.0001 per share, to our sponsor, TPG Pace Beneficial Finance Sponsor, Series LLC, a Delaware series limited liability company (the Sponsor), and the proceeds of a promissory note (the Note) from the Sponsor, in the amount of $300,000. The registration statement for our initial public offering (Public Offering) was declared effective by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on October 6, 2020. In our Public Offering, we sold 45,000,000 Units at a price of $10.00 per Unit, generating proceeds of $450,000,000. Simultaneously with the effectiveness of our Public Offering, we closed the private placement of an aggregate of 7,333,333 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants), each exercisable to purchase one Class A ordinary share at an exercise price of $11.50 per share, to the Sponsor, at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant, generating proceeds of $11,000,000. On the Close Date, we placed $450,000,000 of proceeds (including $15,750,000 of deferred underwriting discount) from the Public Offering and the Private Placement Warrants into an interest bearing U.S. based trust account at J.P. Morgan Chase, N.A, with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee (the Trust Account) and held the remaining portion 14 (net of offering expenses, other than underwriting discounts, paid upon the consummation of the Public Offering) of such proceeds outside the Trust Account. At September 30, 2020, we had cash of $125,887 and negative working capital of $927,958, which excludes deferred offering costs. On October 14, 2020, the funds in the Trust Account were invested only in specified U.S. government treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less and in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations (collectively Permitted Investments). We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business prior to our Business Combination. However, if our estimates of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our Class A ordinary shares at the completion of our Initial Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination (including from our affiliates or affiliates of our Sponsor). Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or entered into any non-financial agreements involving assets. Contractual Obligations At September 30, 2020, we did not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities. On the Close Date, we entered into an administrative support agreement pursuant to which we have agreed to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a total of $50,000 per month for office space, administrative and support services. Upon the earlier of the completion of the Initial Business Combination and the Companys liquidation, we will cease paying these monthly fees. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following as our critical accounting policies: Offering Costs We comply with the requirements of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 340-10-S99-1 and SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 5A, Expenses of Offering. We incurred offering costs of $1,095,127 in connection with our Public Offering primarily consisting of accounting and legal services, securities registration expenses and exchange listing fees. These costs, along with paid and deferred underwriter discounts totaling $15,750,000, were charged to additional paid-in capital at the Close Date. Net Loss Per Ordinary Share We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. Net loss per ordinary share is computed by dividing net loss applicable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, plus to the extent dilutive the incremental number of shares of ordinary shares to settle warrants, as calculated using the treasury stock method. At September 30, 2020, the Company did not have any dilutive securities or other contracts that could, potentially, be exercised or converted into ordinary shares and then share in the earnings of the Company under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted net loss per ordinary share is the same as basic net loss per ordinary share for the periods presented. 15 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.