Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources and is incorporated herein by reference. 11 Table of Contents Employees As of April 29, 2011, we had 10,212 employees, of which 4,808 were in sales and marketing, 3,146 were in research and development, 1,248 were in services and manufacturing operations, and 1,010 were in finance and administration. In addition, we added approximately 1,000 employees as a result of the recent acquisition of ESG, which was completed on May 6, 2011. We have never had a work stoppage and consider relations with our employees to be good. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. Executive Officers Our executive officers and their ages as of May 24, 2011, are as follows: Name Age Position Thomas Georgens 51 President, Chief Executive Officer, Director Manish Goel 46 Executive Vice President, Products Steven J. Gomo 59 Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer Matthew K. Fawcett 43 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Robert E. Salmon 50 Executive Vice President, Field Operations Thomas Georgens is our president and chief executive officer. From February 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Georgens served as our president and chief operating officer and was responsible for all product operations and field operations worldwide. Mr. Georgens has also been a member of our Board of Directors since March 2008. Mr. Georgens joined NetApp in October 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems and was named executive vice president of product operations where he served in that role from January 2007 to February 2008. Before joining NetApp, Mr. Georgens spent nine years at Engenio, a former subsidiary of LSI Corporation, with the last two years as chief executive officer. He has also served in various other positions, including president of LSI Logic Storage Systems and executive vice president of LSI Corporation. Prior to LSI Corporation, Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC in a variety of engineering and marketing positions. Mr. Georgens holds a BS degree and an ME degree in computer and systems engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute as well as an MBA degree from Babson College. Manish Goel was appointed the executive vice president of product operations in June 2009, overseeing all aspects of technology strategy and product engineering across the Companys product portfolio. Mr. Goel has held a variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales, and business unit general management since he joined NetApp in 2002. Prior to NetApp, Mr. Goel led corporate and business development activities for Cadence Design Systems and Copper Mountain Networks. Prior to that, he spent four years as a strategy consultant for McKinsey and Co. and six years as a systems software engineer. Mr. Goel holds a BS degree in electrical engineering from IIT Chennai and an MBA degree in finance from the Wharton School of Business. Steven J. Gomo joined NetApp in August 2002 as senior vice president of finance and chief financial officer. He was appointed executive vice president of finance and chief financial officer in October 2004. Prior to joining the Company, he served as chief financial officer for Gemplus International S.A., headquartered in Luxembourg from November 2000 to April 2002 and as chief financial officer of Silicon Graphics, Inc., from February 1998 to August 2000. Prior to February 1998, he worked at Hewlett-Packard Company for 24 years in various positions, including financial management, corporate finance, general management, and manufacturing. Mr. Gomo currently serves on the board of SanDisk Corporation and Enphase Energy. Mr. Gomo holds an MBA degree from Santa Clara University and a BS degree in business administration from Oregon State University. 12 Table of Contents Matthew K. Fawcett joined the Company in September 2010 as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. Prior to joining NetApp, from 1999 to August 2010, Mr. Fawcett served in various legal positions at JDS Uniphase Corporation, including as senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. Prior to joining JDSU, Mr. Fawcett was counsel at Fujitsu and worked in private practice at Morrison & Foerster LLP. Fawcett holds a BA degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a JD degree from the University of California at Los Angeles. Robert E. Salmon joined NetApp in January 1994 and was appointed executive vice president, field operations in December 2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the Companys executive vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as the Companys senior vice president of worldwide sales, and from May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as the Companys vice president of North American sales. Prior to his tenure at NetApp Mr. Salmon spent nearly 10 years with Sun Microsystems and Data General Corporation. Mr. Salmon graduated from California State University, Chico with a BS degree in computer science. Additional Information Our Internet address is www.netapp.com. We make available through our Internet Web site our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information about this Public Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. Please see Item 1. Business Forward Looking Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of the forward-looking statements that are qualified by these risk factors. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results may be adversely affected by uncertain economic and market conditions. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Challenging economic conditions worldwide or in certain geographic regions have from time to time contributed to slowdowns in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (IT) market, resulting in: Reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on IT-related spending by our customers; Increased price competition for our products from competitors; Deferment of purchases and orders by customers due to budgetary constraints or changes in current or planned utilization of our systems; Risk of excess and obsolete inventories; Risk of supply constraints: Excess facilities costs; Higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues; 13 Table of Contents Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on customers, distributors and resellers; Negative impacts from increased financial pressures on key suppliers or contract manufacturers; and Potential discontinuance of product lines or businesses and related asset impairments. Any of the above-mentioned factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations during times of economic volatility. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: Fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the storage and data management market; A shift in federal government spending patterns; Changes in sales and implementation cycles for our products and reduced visibility into our customers spending plans and associated revenues; The level of price and product competition in our target markets; The impact of economic uncertainty on our customers budgets and IT spending capacity; Our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels and purchase commitments; Our reliance on a limited number of suppliers, and industry consolidation in our supply base, which could subject us to periodic supply-and-demand, price rigidity, and quality issues with our components; The timing of bookings, the cancellation of significant orders and the management of, or fluctuations in, our backlog; Product configuration and mix; The extent to which our customers renew their service and maintenance contracts with us; Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal governments September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; Linearity, such as our historical intraquarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarters total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter; Announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; Deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; Our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; Our ability to effectively integrate acquired products and technologies; Our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs; Our ability to effectively manage our operating expenses; Adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates in the countries in which we do business; The dilutive impact of our $1.265 billion of 1.75% convertible senior notes due June 2013 (the Notes) and related warrants on our earnings per share; 14 Table of Contents Excess or inadequate facilities; Actual events, circumstances, outcomes and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions, and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of valuation allowances), liabilities, and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements; Disruptions resulting from new systems and processes as we continue to enhance and scale our system infrastructure; Disruptions resulting from reliance on third-party systems and processes during the transition period following the completion of mergers or other acquisitions; and Future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting rules, such as the increased use of fair value measures, changes in accounting standards related to revenue recognition, lease accounting, and financial instruments and the potential requirement that U.S. registrants prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Due to such factors, operating results for future periods are difficult to predict, and, therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. It is possible that in one or more quarters our results may fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In such event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decrease. Our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, and a shortfall in revenues may harm our business and our operating results. Our revenues for a particular period are difficult to forecast, especially in times of economic uncertainty. Because the storage and data management market is rapidly evolving, our sales cycle varies substantially from customer to customer, and we rely increasingly on sales through our indirect channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, OEMs and strategic business partners. New product introductions and the transition from old to new products also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues. In addition, we derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. If we do not achieve bookings in the latter part of a quarter consistent with our quarterly targets, our financial results will be adversely impacted. Additionally, due to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may not accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast bookings and trends in our business. Sales personnel monitor the status of potential business and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision, the dollar amount of the sale and the products or services to be sold. These estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a bookings pipeline. Our pipeline estimates may prove to be unreliable either in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into revenues varies from customer to customer, can be difficult to estimate, and requires management judgment, and also because customers purchasing decisions are subject to delay, reduction or cancellation. Small deviations from our forecasted conversion rate may result in inaccurate plans and budgets and could materially and adversely impact our business or our planned results of operations. In addition, the risks inherent in using a pipeline system are magnified with respect to indirect sales made through our channel partners because we have less control over, and visibility into, the sales process of our channel partners. Economic uncertainties have caused, and may in the future again cause, consumers, businesses and governments to defer purchases in response to tighter budgets, credit, decreased cash availability and declining customer confidence. Accordingly, future demand for our products could differ from our current expectations. 15 Table of Contents We have experienced periods of alternating growth and decline in revenues and operating expenses. If we are not able to successfully manage these fluctuations, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be significantly impacted. Changing market conditions and economic uncertainty create a challenging operating environment for our business. It is critical that we maintain appropriate alignment between our cost structure and our expected growth and revenues, while at the same time, continuing to make strategic investments for future growth. Our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues, and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. We have a limited ability to quickly or significantly reduce our fixed costs, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing programs and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits (revenue growth), and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we are unable to effectively manage our resources and capacity during periods of increasing demand for our products, we could also experience an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition and our customer relationships may be adversely impacted. If the storage and data management market fails to grow, or grows slower than we expect, our revenues will be adversely affected. Also, even if spending in the IT market increases, our revenues may not grow at the same pace. Our gross margins have varied over time and may continue to vary, and such variation makes it more difficult to forecast our earnings. Our total gross margins are impacted by the mix of our product, software entitlements and maintenance and services revenues. Our product gross margins have been and may continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including: Demand for storage and data management products; Pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives, discount levels, and price competition; Changes in the mix between direct versus indirect and OEM sales, particularly as a result of the recent acquisition of certain assets related to the Engenio external storage systems business (ESG) of LSI Corporation (LSI), which is based on a lower gross margin OEM business model; Changes in customer, geographic, or product mix, including mix of configurations within products; The timing and amount of revenue recognized and deferred; New product introductions and enhancements; Licensing and royalty arrangements; Excess inventory levels or purchase commitments as a result of changes in demand forecasts or last time buy purchases; Possible product and software defects as we transition our products; and The cost of components, contract manufacturing costs, quality, warranty, and freight. 16 Table of Contents Changes in software entitlements and maintenance gross margins may result from various factors, such as: The size of the installed base of products under support contracts; The timing of technical support service contract renewals; and Demand for and the timing of delivery of upgrades. Changes in service gross margins may result from various factors, such as: The mix of customers; The size and timing of service contract renewals; Spares stocking requirements to support new product introductions; The level of spending on our customer support infrastructure; The volume, cost and use of outside partners to deliver support services on our behalf; and Product quality and serviceability issues. Due to such factors, gross margins are subject to variation from period to period and are difficult to predict. An increase in competition and industry consolidation could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology. In the storage market, our primary and near-line storage system products and our associated software portfolio compete primarily with storage system products and data management software from EMC (including its recent acquisition of Isilon), Hitachi Data Systems, HP, IBM, Dell and Oracle Corporation. In the secondary storage market, which includes the disk-to-disk backup, compliance and business continuity segments, our solutions compete primarily against products from EMC and Oracle Corporation. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, as companies become unable to maintain their competitive positions or continue operations and as customers demand more flexible business models and terms. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers as sole-source vendors. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Competitive pressures we face could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Disruption of, or changes in, our distribution model could harm our sales. If we fail to develop and maintain strong relationships with our channel partners, or if our channel partners fail to effectively manage the sale of our products or services on our behalf, our revenues and gross margins could be adversely affected. We market and sell our storage data management solutions directly through our worldwide sales force and indirectly through channel partners such as value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, OEMs and strategic business partners, and we derive a significant portion of our revenues from these indirect channels. During fiscal 2011, revenues generated from sales through our indirect channel distribution accounted for 73% of our revenues, and we expect this percentage to continue to increase over time as we further develop these channels or acquire products distributed through indirect channels. In order for us to maintain or increase our revenues, we must effectively manage our relationships with channel partners. 17 Table of Contents Several factors could result in disruption of or changes in our indirect channel distribution model, which could materially harm our revenues and gross margins, including the following: Our indirect channel partners may compete directly with other channel partners or with our direct sales force. Due to these conflicts, our indirect channel partners could stop or reduce their efforts in marketing our products. Our indirect channel partners may demand that we absorb a greater share of the risks that their customers may ask them to bear; Our indirect channel partners may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes and challenges in business conditions; and Our indirect channel partners financial condition or operations may weaken. There is no assurance that we will be able to attract new indirect channel partners, retain these indirect channel partners or that we will be able to secure additional or replacement indirect channel partners in the future, especially in light of changes in end customer demand patterns and changes in available and competing technologies from competitors. The loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results within that area, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. Our inability to effectively establish, train, retain and manage our indirect channel partners could harm our sales. In addition, we depend on our indirect channel partners to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the jurisdictions in which they operate. Their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our OEM relationship with IBM may not continue to generate significant revenues. In April 2005, we entered into an OEM agreement with IBM, which enables IBM to sell IBM-branded solutions based on our unified solutions, including NearStore and V-Series systems, as well as associated software offerings. In addition, by acquiring ESG, we have assumed LSIs rights under a second OEM agreement with IBM, which enables IBM to sell certain ESG solutions. While these agreements are part of our general strategy to expand our reach to more customers and into more countries, we do not have an exclusive relationship with IBM under either OEM agreement, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time. Therefore, our relationship with IBM may not continue to generate significant revenues or, in the case of the OEM agreement related to ESG, may not allow us to capture certain anticipated benefits of the ESG acquisition. In addition, we have no control over the products that IBM selects to sell, or its release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control its pricing. In the event that sales through our OEM relationship with IBM increase, which we expect will occur as a result of the ESG transaction, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and the OEM or among our channel partners. If we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our OEM relationship does not continue to generate significant revenues, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has and in the future could negatively affect our revenues. During fiscal 2011, sales to distributors Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. accounted for approximately 18% and 12%, respectively of our net revenues. We also have significant OEM agreements with IBM, which, as described above, enable IBM to sell IBM-branded solutions based on our solutions, as well as an agreement with Fujitsu Technology Solutions (Fujitsu), which enables Fujitsu to lease, sell, market and resell our 18 Table of Contents products to end users and Fujitsu sales partners worldwide, to integrate our products into Fujitsu bundled offerings, and to market our support services. The loss of orders from these, or any of our more significant customers, strategic partners, distributors or resellers could cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers for an extended period of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. Unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact our operations by affecting the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors, or the ability of our customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If the uncertainty in the economy continues, or conditions deteriorate, and our sales decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm our business. We expect that our largest customers in the future could be different from our largest customers today. End users could stop purchasing and indirect channel partners could stop marketing our products at any time. The loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners or the failure to obtain and ship a number of large orders each quarter could harm our operating results. In addition, a change in the pricing practices of one or more of our large indirect channel partners could adversely affect our revenues and gross margins. The U.S. government has contributed to our revenue growth and has become an important customer for us. Future revenues from the U.S. government are subject to shifts in government spending patterns. A decrease in government demand for our products could materially affect our revenues. In addition, our business could be adversely affected as a result of future examinations by the U.S. government. The U.S. government has become an important customer for the storage and data management market generally and for us in particular; however, government demand is unpredictable, and there can be no assurance that we will maintain or grow our revenues from the U.S. government. Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT spending. If the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. In addition, selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or indirectly, also subjects us to certain regulatory requirements. For example, in April 2009, we entered into a settlement agreement with the United States of America, acting through the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and on behalf of the General Services Administration (the GSA) related to a dispute regarding our discount practices and compliance with the price reduction clause provisions of GSA contracts for certain specified prior years. Failure to comply with U.S. government regulatory requirements by us or our reseller partners could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. If we are unable to maintain our existing relationships and develop new relationships with major strategic partners, our revenues may be impacted negatively. An element of our strategy to increase revenues is to strategically partner with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with them. We have significant partner relationships with database, business application, backup management and server virtualization companies, including Microsoft, Oracle, SAP, Symantec and VMware. In January 2010, we announced an expansion of our collaboration with Cisco and VMware, including a cooperative support arrangement, and in October 2010, we expanded our relationship with Fujitsu Technology Solutions. A number 19 Table of Contents of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. There is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and even if we can establish relationships with these or other partners, these partnerships may not generate significant revenues or may not continue to be in effect for any specific period of time. If these relationships are not maintained or fail to materialize as expected, we could experience lower than expected revenue growth, suffer delays in product development, or experience other operational difficulties. In addition, some of our partners, including Oracle, Cisco and VMware, are also partnering with other storage vendors which may increase the availability of competing solutions, harm our ability to continue as the vendor of choice for those partners and harm our ability to grow our business with those partners. We intend to continue to establish and maintain business relationships with technology companies to expand our marketing reach and accelerate the development of our storage and data management solutions. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in developing new relationships or maintaining our existing relationships, our future revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, the loss of a strategic partner could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. Our future financial performance depends on growth in the storage and data management markets. If the performance of these markets does not meet the expectations upon which we calculate and forecast our revenues, our operating results will be materially and adversely impacted. All of our products address the storage and data management markets. Accordingly, our future financial performance will depend in large part on continued growth in the storage and data management markets and on our ability to adapt to emerging standards in these markets. The markets for storage and data management have been recently adversely impacted by the global economic uncertainty, and as a result of continued uncertainty, the markets may not grow as anticipated or may decline. Additionally, emerging standards in these markets may adversely affect the UNIX , Windows and the World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) in the United States and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. Supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers, or a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs or causes a delay in our ability to fulfill orders, could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results, and our failure to estimate customer demand properly may result in excess or obsolete component supply, which could adversely affect our gross margins. The fact that we do not own or operate our manufacturing facilities and supply chain exposes us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, production costs and product supply, which could have a material adverse impact on the supply of our products and on our business and operating results. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for components utilized in the assembly of our products, which has and could subject us to future periodic supply constraints and price rigidity. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement we entered into with LSI in connection with the acquisition of certain assets related to ESG, we have the right to place orders with contract manufacturers and suppliers through LSI and access LSIs systems in order to help us manage the ESG business for a period of time following the acquisition. Financial problems of either contract manufacturers, component suppliers or other parties in our supply chain, including LSI, and reservation 20 Table of Contents of manufacturing capacity at our contract manufacturers by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either limit supply or increase costs of our products. Qualifying a new contract manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time-consuming, and disruption or termination of manufacturing capacity with respect to any contract manufacturer could negatively impact our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We intend to regularly introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require us to rapidly achieve volume production by coordinating with our contract manufacturers and suppliers. A reduction or interruption in supply; a significant increase in the price of one or more components; a failure to adequately procure inventory by our contract manufacturers; a failure to timely cancel, reschedule, or adjust our requirements based on our business needs; or a decrease in demand for our products could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition and could materially damage customer relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the current market price when the components are actually used, our gross margins could decrease. As the demand for our products has increased, we have experienced, and may continue to experience tightening of supply of some components leading to longer lead times and component supply constraints, which has resulted in and in the future could continue to result in the delay of shipments. Our business operations are subject to business interruptions and other events beyond our control. Such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to receive components from our suppliers and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Our acquisitions may disrupt our existing business and harm our results of operations. As part of our strategy, we are continuously evaluating opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. In fiscal year 2011, we completed acquisitions of two technology companies, and on May 6, 2011, we completed the acquisition of certain assets related to ESG. The acquisition and ongoing integration of new businesses into our business may adversely affect our operations or profitability. We may not achieve the anticipated cost savings and synergies or realize our estimated revenue, gross margin, profit or other financial projections or business objectives in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including the following: The inability to successfully integrate the operations, technologies, products, personnel and business systems of the acquired companies; In the case of an asset purchase, the failure to acquire all of the assets necessary to operate the acquired business; The diversion of managements attention from normal daily operations of the existing business; The loss of key employees of the acquired business could adversely impact our ability to manage the business and our ability to realize our financial forecasts; The inability to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition; Substantial transaction costs and accounting charges; and Exposure to litigation related to acquisitions. Acquisitions may also result in risks to our existing business, including: Deterioration of our internal control over financial reporting as a result of inconsistencies between our standards, procedures and policies and those of the acquired business; Reliance on the selling partys processes, data, supply chain management and reporting during the transition period following the completion of an acquisition; 21 Table of Contents Dilution of our current stockholders percentage ownership to the extent we issue new equity; Assumption of additional liabilities; Incurrence of additional debt or a decline in available cash; Adverse effects to our financial statements, such as the need to incur restructuring charges; Liability for intellectual property infringement and other litigation claims, which we may or may not be aware of at the time of acquisition; and Creation of goodwill or other intangible assets that could result in significant future amortization expense or impairment charges. The failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of an acquisition may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. For example, we have in the past discontinued certain products which were originally acquired through business acquisitions. Additional or realized risks of this nature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the credit and non-payment risk of our customers, resellers, and distributors, especially during times of economic uncertainty and tight credit markets, which could result in material losses. Most of our sales to customers are on an open credit basis, with typical payment terms of 30 days. While we monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe are reasonable, we may experience losses due to a customers inability to pay. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we also have recourse and nonrecourse customer financing leasing arrangements using third-party leasing companies. Under the terms of recourse leases, which are treated as off-balance sheet arrangements, we remain liable for the aggregate unpaid remaining lease payments to the third-party leasing company in the event of end-user customer default. We also offer financing arrangements whereby the end-user customer pays a fixed monthly amount plus a variable amount based on actual storage capacity used. These arrangements subject us to additional risk with respect to revenue recognition and profitability due to the uncertainties associated with the variable portion of the arrangements. In addition, from time to time we provide guarantees for a portion of other financing arrangements under which we could be called upon to make payments to our funding parties in the event of nonpayment by end-user customers. We expect demand for customer financing to continue. During periods of economic uncertainty, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. In addition, our exposure to credit risks of our customers may increase further if our customers and their customers or their lease financing sources are adversely affected by global economic conditions. In the past, there have been bankruptcies by our customers to whom we had extended open credit or provided lease financing arrangements, causing us to incur bad debt charges, and, in the case of financing arrangements, a loss of revenues. We may be subject to similar losses in future periods. Any future losses could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, to the extent that the recent turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for customers to obtain open credit or lease financing, those customers ability to purchase our products could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. 22 Table of Contents The market price for our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and will likely continue to do so in the future. The market price for our common stock has experienced substantial volatility in the past, and several factors could cause substantial fluctuation in the future. These factors include but are not limited to: Fluctuations in our operating results compared to prior periods and forecasts; Variations between our operating results and either the guidance we have furnished to the public or the published expectations of securities analysts; Industry consolidation and the resulting perception of increased competition; Economic developments in the storage and data management market as a whole; Fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; Changes in analysts recommendations or projections; Changes in our relationships with our suppliers, customers, channel and strategic partners; Announcements of the completion or dissolution of strategic alliances within the industry; Dilutive impacts of our convertible Notes and related warrants; International conflicts and acts of terrorism; Announcements of new products, applications, or product enhancements by us or our competitors; Announcements related to planned or completed mergers or other acquisitions by us or our competitors; Inquiries by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; and General market conditions, including recent global or regional economic uncertainties. In addition, the stock market has experienced volatility that has particularly affected the market prices of the equity securities of many technology companies. Certain macroeconomic factors such as changes in interest rates, the market climate for the technology sector, and levels of corporate spending on IT, could continue to have an impact on the trading price of our stock, and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future. Changes in market conditions have led, and in the future could lead, to charges related to the discontinuance of certain of our products and asset impairments. In response to changes in economic conditions and market demands, we may decide to strategically realign our resources and consider cost containment measures including restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise discontinuing certain products. Any decision to limit investment in, dispose of, or otherwise exit products may result in the recording of charges to earnings, including inventory and technology-related or other intangible asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, cancellation penalties or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products, which would harm our operating results. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis, and between annual tests in certain circumstances when impairment indicators exist or if certain events or changes in circumstances have occurred. Future goodwill impairment tests may result in charges to earnings, which could materially harm our operating results. 23 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and introduce new products and respond to technological change, if our new products do not achieve market acceptance, if we fail to manage the interoperability and transition between our new and old products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of service and support for our new products, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical risks. In addition, our new products must respond to technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, or if such products do not achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. New or additional product introductions increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational risks. If they are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. As new or enhanced products are introduced, we must attempt to successfully manage the interoperability and transition from older products in order to minimize disruption in customers ordering patterns, avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although a substantial portion of our business is located and conducted in the United States, a significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the United States. During fiscal 2011, our international revenues accounted for 49% of our total revenues. A substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors affecting our international operations, some of which are beyond our control, including regulatory, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and acts of terrorism and international conflicts. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. Our international sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and in foreign currencies. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our products more expensive and therefore potentially less competitive in foreign markets. Conversely, lowering our price in local currency may result in lower U.S.-based revenues. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase operating expenses in foreign markets. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies, which can experience extreme volatility. We utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure associated with certain assets and liabilities as well as anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. All balance sheet hedges are marked to market through earnings every quarter. The time-value component of our cash flow hedges is recorded in earnings while all other gains and losses are marked to market through other comprehensive income until forecasted transactions occur, at which time such realized gains and losses are recognized in earnings. These hedges attempt to reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. Factors that could have a 24 Table of Contents negative impact on the effectiveness of our hedging program include inaccuracies in forecasting, widening interest rate differentials, and volatility in the foreign exchange market. Our hedging strategies may not be successful and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the United States and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, general import/export restrictions, and regulations related to data privacy. For example, United States Government export restrictions impede our ability to sell our products to certain end users. The United States, through the Bureau of Industry Security, places restrictions on the export of certain encryption technology. These restrictions may include: the requirement to have a license to export the technology; the requirement to have software licenses approved before export is allowed; and outright bans on the licensing of certain encryption technology to particular end users or to all end users in a particular country. Our products are subject to various levels of export restrictions. These export restrictions could negatively impact our business. We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. There can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. Any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: Earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we are taxed at lower rates as compared to the U.S. statutory tax rate; Material differences between forecasted and actual tax rates as a result of a shift in the mix of pretax profits and losses by tax jurisdiction, our ability to use tax credits, or effective tax rates by tax jurisdiction that differ from our estimates; Changing tax laws or related interpretations, accounting standards, regulations, and interpretations in multiple tax jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; An increase in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including certain stock-based compensation expense, write-offs of acquired in-process research and development, and impairment of goodwill; The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; Changes related to our ability to ultimately realize future benefits attributed to our deferred tax assets, including those related to other-than-temporary impairments; Tax assessments resulting from income tax audits or any related tax interest or penalties could significantly affect our income tax provision for the period in which the settlements take place; and A change in our decision to indefinitely reinvest foreign earnings. 25 Table of Contents We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers. These benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the United States and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. We have not provided for United States federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Obama administration and Congress have announced several proposals to reform United States tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of United States income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. Should such anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. We are currently undergoing federal income tax audits in the United States and several foreign tax jurisdictions. The rights to some of our intellectual property (IP) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this IP in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. In recent years, several other U.S. companies have had their foreign IP arrangements challenged as part of IRS examinations, which has resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. During fiscal year 2009, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustments from the IRS in connection with a federal income tax audit of our fiscal 2003 and 2004 tax returns. We filed a protest with the IRS in response to the Notices of Proposed Adjustments and subsequently received a rebuttal from the IRS examination team in response to our protest. In April 2011, we executed a closing agreement with the IRS Appeals Office to close this examination. The Notices of Proposed Adjustments in this audit focused primarily on issues relating to the timing and the amount of income recognized, deductions taken and on the level of cost allocations made to foreign operations during the audit years. The settlement of our 2003-2004 IRS examination resulted in additional liability of $10.8 million, which is almost entirely offset by net operating loss carryforwards. As a result of the examination settlement, we have reduced our reserve for uncertain tax positions and recognized a net benefit of $21.1 million. During fiscal year 2010, the IRS commenced the examination of our fiscal 2005 through 2007 federal income tax returns, and in addition, the California Franchise Tax Board began the examination of our fiscal 2007 and 2008 California income tax returns. These audits are currently in progress. On September 17, 2010, the Danish tax authorities issued a decision concluding that distributions declared in 2005 and 2006 from the Companys Danish subsidiary, for which the Company has not paid or accrued any taxes, are subject to Danish at-source dividend withholding tax. The Company has appealed this assessment decision with the Danish National Tax Tribunal. If the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under the current IRS audits or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the Netherlands which expires on April 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the Netherlands. If we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. The price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. 26 Table of Contents Our leverage and debt service obligations and note conversion may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and earnings per share. As a result of the sale of our Notes, we have a greater amount of debt than we have maintained in the past. In addition, we have various synthetic lease arrangements related to some of our facilities at our corporate headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, and, subject to the restrictions in our existing and any future financing agreements, we may incur additional debt. Our maintenance of higher levels of indebtedness could have adverse consequences including: Impacting our ability to satisfy our obligations; Increasing the portion of our cash flows from operations that may have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; Impairing our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and Making us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our ability to meet our expenses and debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, economic, regulatory and other factors. We will not be able to control many of these factors, such as economic conditions and governmental regulations. Furthermore, our operations may not generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to meet our expenses and service our debt. As a result, we may be required to repatriate funds from our foreign subsidiaries which could result in a significant tax liability to us. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations, or if we are unable to repatriate sufficient or any funds from our foreign subsidiaries, in order to meet our expenses and debt service obligations, we may need to enter into new financing arrangements to obtain the necessary funds, or we may be required to raise additional funds through other means. If we determine it is necessary to seek additional funding for any reason, we may not be able to obtain such funding or, if funding is available, obtain it on acceptable terms. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, we could be in default on such debt, and this default could cause us to be in default on our other outstanding indebtedness. Any conversion of our Notes may cause dilution to our shareholders and to our earnings per share. If the price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price, initially $31.85 per share, the Notes will cause an increase in diluted share count and result in lower reported earnings per share. For at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended March 31, 2011, our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold price of $41.41 per share set forth for these Notes. Accordingly, the Notes are convertible at the holders option through June 30, 2011. Based on the trading price of our common stock on April 29, 2011, we had approximately 16 million shares of common stock potentially issuable on conversion of our Notes. Upon conversion of any Notes, we will deliver cash up to the principal amount of the Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Notes, shares of our common stock, which would result in dilution to our shareholders. The Note hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the Notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into privately negotiated convertible Note hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the Counterparties), which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes. At the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the Counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. In connection with these hedging transactions, the Counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the Notes. Such activities may have had the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. The Counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions 27 Table of Contents from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. Additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our shareholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. In April 2010, we terminated our Note hedge transaction with Lehman Brothers OTC Derivatives, Inc. (Lehman OTC), which was a counterparty to 20% of our Note hedges, as a result of the bankruptcy filing by Lehman OTC, which constituted an event of default under the Note hedge. Because we have decided not to replace this Note hedge, we are subject to potential dilution on the unhedged portion of our Notes upon conversion if on the date of conversion the per-share market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $31.85. The terms of the Notes, the rights of the holders of the Notes and other counterparties to Note hedges and warrants were not affected by the termination of this Note hedge. The price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the Notes. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the Notes and warrants. Future issuances of common stock related to our Notes, warrants, stock options, restricted stock units, and our Employee Stock Purchase Plan may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the Notes. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the Notes. For at least 20 trading days during the 30 consecutive trading days ended March 30, 2011, our common stock price exceeded the conversion threshold price of $41.41 per share set forth for these Notes. Accordingly, the Notes are convertible at the holders option through June 30, 2011. Upon conversion of any Notes, we will satisfy our obligation by delivering cash for the principal amount of the Notes and shares of common stock, if any, to the extent the conversion value exceeds the principal amount. Any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Notes or the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our Note hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their Notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the Notes. In addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. As of April 29, 2011, eligible individuals under our stock option and restricted stock unit plans held options to purchase approximately 25 million shares of our common stock and a total of approximately 10 million restricted stock units, respectively. If all the outstanding options were exercised, the proceeds to the Company would average approximately $27 per share. We also had 14 million shares of our common stock reserved for issuance under our stock plans with respect to equity awards that have not been granted. The exercise of all of the outstanding options and/or the vesting of all outstanding restricted shares and restricted stock units would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) under which employees are entitled to purchase shares of our common stock at 85% of the fair market value at certain specified dates over a two-year period. As of April 29, 2011, we had approximately 4 million shares of our common stock available for issuance under the ESPP. The issuance of shares under the ESPP would dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, and any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such exercise could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations related to business strategy (including in connection with acquisitions, strategic alliances or other transactions), to increase our capital, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options upon conversion of the Notes, or for other reasons. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. At April 29, 2011, we had $5.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, available-for-sale securities and restricted cash and investments. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in U.S. Treasury securities, commercial paper, U.S. government agency bonds, corporate bonds, certificates of deposit, and money market funds. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which have been exacerbated by unusual events such as the financial and credit crisis, and bankruptcy filings in the United States which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. These securities are generally classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. We may suffer losses if forced to sell securities that have experienced a decline in market value because of changes in interest rates. Currently, we do not use financial derivatives to hedge our interest rate exposure. The fair value of our investments may change significantly due to events and conditions in the credit and capital markets. Any investment securities that we hold or the issues comprising such securities could be subject to review for possible downgrade. Any downgrade in these credit ratings may result in an additional decline in the estimated fair value of our investments. Changes in the various assumptions used to value these securities and any increase in the markets perceived risk associated with such investments may also result in a decline in estimated fair value. On occasion, we make strategic investments in other companies, including private equity funds, which may decline in value and/or not meet desired objectives. The success of these investments depends on various factors over which we may have limited or no control. As of April 29, 2011, we had an investment with the carrying value of $1.3 million in a private equity fund. In the event of adverse conditions in the credit and capital markets, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some or all of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment, which could adversely impact our financial position and operating results. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents balances are held overseas. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash domestically in order to fund our U.S. operations and strategic opportunities, and to service our debt, we may incur a significant tax liability in order to repatriate the overseas cash balances, or we may need to raise additional capital in the future. A portion of our earnings which is generated from our international operations is held and invested by certain of our foreign subsidiaries. These amounts are not freely available for dividend repatriation to the United States without triggering significant adverse tax consequences. As a result, if the cash generated by our domestic operations is not sufficient to fund our domestic operations, our broader corporate initiatives such as stock repurchases, acquisitions, and other strategic opportunities, and to service our outstanding indebtedness, we may 29 Table of Contents need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, or we may need to obtain new credit facilities to the extent we choose not to repatriate our overseas cash. Such additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, and any new equity financings or offerings would dilute our current stockholders ownership. Furthermore, lenders, particularly in light of the current challenges in the credit markets, may not agree to extend us new, additional or continuing credit. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may be forced to repatriate our foreign cash and incur a significant tax expense or we may not be able to take advantage of strategic opportunities, develop new products, respond to competitive pressures or repay our outstanding indebtedness. In any such case, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our synthetic leases are off-balance sheet arrangements that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. We have invested substantial resources in new facilities and physical infrastructure, which will increase our fixed costs. Our operating results could be harmed if our business does not grow proportionately to our increase in fixed costs. We have various synthetic lease arrangements with BNP Paribas Leasing Corporation as lessor (BNPPLC) for our headquarters office buildings and land in Sunnyvale, California. These synthetic leases qualify for operating lease accounting treatment under the accounting guidance for leases and are not considered variable interest entities under applicable accounting guidance. Therefore, we do not include the properties or the associated debt on our consolidated balance sheets. Our future minimum lease payments under these synthetic leases limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business by restricting the funds available for use in addressing such changes. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately to our increase in fixed costs, our operating results will be harmed. If we elect not to purchase the properties at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value to BNPPLC. If the fair value of the properties declines below that guaranteed minimum residual value, our residual value guarantee would require us to pay the difference to BNPPLC. As of April 29, 2011, the estimated fair value of the properties was approximately $35.8 million below the guaranteed minimum residual value, which we are accruing over the remaining term of the respective leases. Any further decline in the fair value of the properties could adversely impact our cash flows, financial condition and operating results. As a result of excess capacity in our Sunnyvale facilities, certain of our facilities subject to synthetic lease arrangements have been subleased or are vacant. These subleases will expire at various times through 2015 and some are at terms that do not generate sufficient sublease income to cover the carrying costs of these facilities. In addition, we may experience changes in our operations in the future that could result in additional excess capacity and vacant facilities. We will continue to be responsible for all carrying costs of these facilities under operating leases until such time as we can sublease these facilities or terminate the applicable leases based on the contractual terms of the operating lease agreements, and these costs may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to restrictive and financial covenants in our synthetic lease arrangements. The restrictive covenants may restrict our ability to operate our business. Our ongoing extension of credit under our synthetic lease arrangements are subject to continued compliance with financial covenants. If we do not comply with these restrictive and financial covenants or otherwise default under the arrangements, we may be required to repay any outstanding amounts or repurchase the properties which are subject to the synthetic lease arrangements. If we lose access to the synthetic lease arrangements, we may not be able to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms, which could limit our operating flexibility. The agreements governing our synthetic lease arrangements contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to operate our business, including restrictions on our ability to: Incur indebtedness; 30 Table of Contents Incur indebtedness at the subsidiary level; Grant liens; Sell all or substantially all our assets: Enter into certain mergers; Change our business; Enter into swap agreements; Enter into transactions with our affiliates; and Enter into certain restrictive agreements. As a result of these restrictive covenants, our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. We may also be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to us, such as strategic acquisitions or joint ventures. Our failure to comply with the restrictive and financial covenants could result in a default under our synthetic lease arrangements, which would give the counterparties thereto the ability to exercise certain rights, including the right to accelerate the amounts owed thereunder and to terminate the arrangements. In addition, our failure to comply with these covenants and the acceleration of amounts owed under synthetic lease arrangements could result in a default under the Notes, which could permit the holders to accelerate the Notes. If all of our debt is accelerated, we may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. We have credit exposure to our hedging counterparties. In order to minimize volatility in earnings associated with fluctuations in the value of foreign currency relative to the U.S. Dollar, we utilize forward and option contracts to hedge our exposure to foreign currencies. As a result of entering into these hedging contracts with major financial institutions, we may be subject to counterparty nonperformance risk. Should there be a counterparty default, we could be exposed to the net losses on the hedged arrangements or be unable to recover anticipated net gains from the transactions. Funds associated with certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible for more than 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience further other-than-temporary declines in value, which would adversely affect our earnings. Auction rate securities (ARSs) held by us are securities with long-term nominal maturities, which, in accordance with investment policy guidelines, had credit ratings of AAA and Aaa at time of purchase. Interest rates for ARS are reset through a Dutch auction each month, which prior to February 2008 had provided a liquid market for these securities. All of our ARSs are backed by pools of student loans guaranteed by the U.S. Department of Education, and we believe the credit quality of these securities is high, based on this guarantee. However, liquidity issues in the global credit markets resulted in the failure of auctions for certain of our ARS investments, with a par value of $71.3 million. For each failed auction, the interest rate resets to a maximum rate defined for each security and the ARS continues to pay interest in accordance with its terms, although the principal associated with the ARS will not be accessible until there is a successful auction or such time as other markets for ARS investments develop or the final maturity of the individual securities. As of April 29, 2011, we determined there was a total decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $6.2 million, of which we have recorded cumulative net temporary impairment charges of $4.1 million, and $2.1 million was recognized as an other-than-temporary impairment charge. In addition, we have classified all of our auction rate securities as long-term assets in our consolidated balance sheets at April 29, 2011 as our ability to liquidate such securities in the next 12 months is uncertain. Although we currently have the 31 Table of Contents ability and intent to hold these ARS investments until recovery in market value or until maturity, if current market conditions deteriorate, or the anticipated recovery in market values does not occur, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in future quarters. We intend, and have the ability, to hold these investments until the market recovers. We may need to undertake cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring initiatives in the future. We have previously recognized restructuring charges related to initiatives to realign our business strategies and resize our business in response to economic and market conditions, including those announced in February 2009 and December 2008. We may undertake future cost-reduction initiatives and restructuring plans that may adversely impact our operations and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future restructurings. Our business and operations are experiencing rapid growth and organizational change. If we fail to effectively manage such growth and change in a manner that preserves our reputation and the key aspects of our corporate culture, our business and operating results could be harmed. Due to recent organic growth and acquisitions, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, rapid growth and organizational change, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. Our headcount has grown from approximately 8,300 employees on April 30, 2010 to over 11,000 employees following the ESG acquisition in May 2011. We will incur significant expenditures and the allocation of valuable management resources to assimilate our additional human resources in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture and enables us to maintain our reputation in the marketplace. If we do not effectively manage our growth and train, retain and manage our employee base, our corporate culture could be undermined, the quality of our products and customer service could suffer, and our reputation could be harmed, each of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as our headcount increases, our costs will also increase. Our business will be harmed if our efforts to expand our organization and headcount are not accompanied by a corresponding increase in revenues. If we are unable to establish fair value for any undelivered element of a sales arrangement, all or a portion of the revenues relating to the arrangement could be deferred to future periods. In the course of our sales efforts, we often enter into multiple element arrangements that include software related elements consisting of non-essential software and undelivered software entitlements and maintenance. If we are required to change the pricing of our software-related elements through discounting, or otherwise introduce variability in the pricing of such elements, we may be unable to maintain Vendor Specific Objective Evidence of fair value of the undelivered elements of the arrangement, and would therefore be required to delay the recognition of all or a portion of the related arrangement. A delay in the recognition of revenues may cause fluctuations in our financial results and may adversely affect our operating margins. We are continually seeking ways to make our cost structure, business processes and systems more efficient, including moving activities from higher-cost to lower-cost owned locations, outsourcing certain business process functions and implementing new business information systems. Problems with the execution of these activities could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We continuously seek to make our cost structure and business processes more efficient. We are focused on increasing workforce flexibility and scalability, and improving overall competitiveness by leveraging our global capabilities, as well as external talent and skills worldwide. For example, certain engineering activities and projects that were formerly performed in the U.S. have been moved to lower cost international locations and we rely on partners or third-party service providers for the provision of certain business process functions and activities in IT, human resources and accounting. 32 Table of Contents The challenges involved with moving or outsourcing activities include executing business functions in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards,