Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, under the heading Liquidity and Capital Resources and is incorporated herein by reference. Employees As of April 26, 2013, we had approximately 13,060 employees, of which 5,940 were in sales and marketing, 4,220 were in research and development, 1,660 were in services and manufacturing operations and 1,240 were in 14 Table of Contents finance and administration. None of our employees are represented by a labor union and we consider relations with our employees to be good. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. We believe that our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in the future. Executive Officers Our executive officers and their ages as of May 21, 2013, are as follows: Name Age Position Thomas Georgens 53 President and Chief Executive Officer Nicholas R. Noviello 44 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Robert E. Salmon 52 Executive Vice President, Field Operations Manish Goel 48 Executive Vice President, Product Operations Matthew K. Fawcett 45 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Thomas Georgens has been the Companys president and chief executive officer since August 2009. From February 2008 to August 2009, Mr. Georgens served as our president and chief operating officer and was responsible for all product operations and field operations worldwide. Mr. Georgens has also been a member of our Board of Directors since March 2008. Mr. Georgens joined NetApp in October 2005 as executive vice president and general manager of enterprise storage systems and served as our executive vice president of product operations from January 2007 to February 2008. Before joining the Company, Mr. Georgens spent nine years in various roles at LSI Corporation, an electronics design company, and its subsidiaries, including chief executive officer of Engenio, president of LSI Logic Storage Systems and executive vice president of LSI Logic. Prior to Engenio, Mr. Georgens spent 11 years at EMC Corporation, a computer storage and data management company, in a variety of engineering and marketing positions. Mr. Georgens holds a BS degree and an M.E. degree in computer and systems engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute as well as an MBA degree from Babson College. Nicholas R. Noviello was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer in January 2012, overseeing the companys finance, customer leasing, workplace resources, and investor relations functions. Mr. Noviello joined NetApp in January 2008 as vice president, finance and controller. He was named senior vice president finance and corporate controller in April 2008 and senior vice president finance and global controller in November 2010. Before joining NetApp, Mr. Noviello spent eight years at Honeywell International, where he was chief financial officer of two global business units, managed investor relations, and was a leader on the corporate mergers and acquisitions team. Prior to Honeywell, Mr. Noviello led mergers and acquisitions for Monarch Dental Corporation for two years and spent seven years at PricewaterhouseCoopers in mergers and acquisitions transaction services, tax, and audit. Mr. Noviello holds a BS degree in business administration from Boston University and an MS degree in taxation from Fairleigh Dickinson University, and he is a certified public accountant. Robert E. Salmon joined NetApp in January 1994 and was appointed executive vice president, field operations in December 2005. Mr. Salmon has served as the companys executive vice president of worldwide sales since September 2004. From August 2003 to September 2004, Mr. Salmon served as our senior vice president of worldwide sales, and from May 2000 to August 2003, Mr. Salmon served as our vice president of North American sales. Prior to his tenure at NetApp, Mr. Salmon spent nearly 10 years with Sun Microsystems, a supplier of network computing systems, and Data General Corporation, a manufacturer of multiuser computer systems. Mr. Salmon graduated from California State University, Chico with a BS degree in computer science. 15 Table of Contents Manish Goel was appointed the executive vice president of product operations in June 2009, overseeing all aspects of technology strategy and product engineering across our product portfolio. Mr. Goel has held a variety of leadership roles in corporate development, sales, and business unit general management since he joined NetApp in 2002. Prior to NetApp, Mr. Goel led corporate and business development activities for Cadence Design Systems, an electronic design automation company, from February 1998 to May 1999, and Copper Mountain Networks, a developer of digital subscriber line (DSL) products, from May 1999 to October 2001. Prior to that, he spent four years as a strategy consultant for McKinsey and Co. and six years in sales operations and software engineering roles. Mr. Goel holds a BS degree in electrical engineering from IIT Chennai and an MBA degree in finance from the Wharton School of Business. Matthew K. Fawcett joined the company in September 2010 as senior vice president, general counsel, and corporate secretary. Prior to joining NetApp, from 1999 to August 2010, Mr. Fawcett served in various legal positions at JDS Uniphase Corporation, an optical components company, including as senior vice president, general counsel, and corporate secretary. Prior to joining JDSU, Mr. Fawcett was counsel at Fujitsu and worked in private practice at Morrison & Foerster LLP. Mr. Fawcett holds a BA degree from the University of California at Berkeley and a JD degree from the University of California at Los Angeles. Additional Information Our Internet address is www.netapp.com. We make available through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site ( www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The public also may read and copy these filings at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information about this Public Reference Room is available by calling (800) SEC-0330. 16 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors All information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be considered and understood in the context of the following risk factors, which describe circumstances that may materially harm our future business, operating results or financial condition. The following discussion reflects our current judgment regarding the most significant risks we face. These risks can and will change in the future. Continuing uncertain economic conditions restrict our visibility and may harm our operating results. The continuing global economic uncertainty and related political and fiscal challenges in the U.S. and abroad (particularly the Eurozone) due to the debt and fiscal crises of recent years have, among other things, limited our ability to forecast future demand for our products, contributed to increased periodic volatility in the computer, storage, and networking industries at large, as well as the information technology (IT) market, and potentially constrains future access to capital for our suppliers, customers and partners. The impacts of these circumstances are global and pervasive, affecting all participants in our industry, and the timing and nature of any ultimate resolution of these matters remain highly uncertain. Moreover, a significant portion of our sales are to Eurozone customers and, accordingly, we are particularly sensitive to developments in that region. Additionally, fiscal restraints have caused, and may in the future again cause governments to defer purchases in response to tighter budgets. Consequently, we expect these concerns to challenge our business for the foreseeable future, and potentially cause harm to our operating results and failure to meet our forecasted financial expectations. When and if the current macroeconomic challenges are resolved, we expect the risk of economic uncertainty to continue, with the potential to restrict our visibility and harm our operating results. Our business may be harmed if growth in the storage market declines. Our industry has experienced significant historical growth due to the continuing increase in the demand for storage by consumers, enterprises and government bodies around the world, and our customers purchases of storage solutions to address this demand. While IT spending has fluctuated periodically due to technology transitions and changing economic and business environments, overall growth in demand for storage has continued. Recent technology trends, such as the emergence of hosted (or cloud) storage, software as a service (SaaS) and mobile data access are driving significant changes in storage architectures and solution requirements. The impact of these trends on overall long-term growth patterns is uncertain. Nevertheless, if the general level of historic industry growth, or if the growth of the specific markets in which we compete, were to decline, our business and results of operations could suffer. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate materially, which could harm our common stock price. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so, sometimes materially. All of the matters discussed in this Risk Factor section could impact our operating results in any fiscal quarter or year. In addition to those matters, we face the following issues which could impact our quarterly results: Seasonality, such as our historical seasonal decline in revenues in the first quarter of our fiscal year and seasonal increase in revenues in the second quarter of our fiscal year, with the latter due in part to the impact of the U.S. federal governments September 30 fiscal year end on the timing of its orders; and Linearity, such as our historical intra-quarter bookings and revenue pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarters total bookings and related revenue occur in the last month of the quarter. If our operating results fall below our forecasts and the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. 17 Table of Contents Our sales and distribution structure makes forecasting revenues difficult and, if disrupted, could harm our operating results. Our business and sales models make revenues difficult to forecast. We sell to a variety of customers, with a corresponding variety of sales cycles. In addition, the majority of our sales are made indirectly through channel partners, including value-added resellers, systems integrators, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic business partners. During the year ended April 26, 2013, revenues generated from sales through our indirect channel accounted for 81% of net revenues. This structure significantly complicates our ability to forecast future revenue, particularly within any particular fiscal quarter or year. Moreover, our relationships with our indirect channel partners are critical to our success. The loss of one or more of our key indirect channel partners in a given geographic area could harm our operating results, as qualifying and developing new indirect channel partners typically requires a significant investment of time and resources before acceptable levels of productivity are met. If we fail to maintain our relationships with our indirect channel partners, if their financial condition, business or customer relationships were to weaken or if they fail to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, our business and operating results could be harmed. If we do not achieve forecasted bookings in any quarter our financial results will be harmed. We derive a majority of our revenues in any given quarter from orders booked in the same quarter. Bookings typically follow intra-quarter seasonality patterns weighted toward the back end of the quarter. If we do not achieve the level, timing and mix of bookings consistent with our quarterly targets and historical patterns, or if we experience cancellations of significant orders, our financial results will be harmed. Additionally, due to the complexities associated with revenue recognition, we may not be able to accurately forecast our non-deferred and deferred revenues, which could harm our operating results. We often incur expenses before we receive related benefits and expenses may be difficult to reduce quickly if demand declines. We base our expense levels in part on future revenue expectations and a significant percentage of our expenses are fixed. It is difficult to reduce our fixed costs quickly, and if revenue levels are below our expectations, operating results will be adversely impacted. During periods of uneven growth or decline, we may incur costs before we realize the anticipated related benefits, which could also harm our operating results. We have made, and will continue to make, significant investments in engineering, sales, service and support, marketing and other functions to support and grow our business. We are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the related anticipated benefits, such as revenue growth, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any disruption to our supply chain could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We do not manufacture our products or their components. Instead, we rely on third parties to make our products and critical components, such as hard disk drives, as well as for associated logistics. Our lack of direct responsibility for, and control over, these elements of our business, as well as the diverse international geographic locations of our manufacturing partners and suppliers, creates significant risks for us, including, among other things: Limited ability to control the quality, quantity and cost of our products or of their components; The potential for binding price or purchase commitments with our suppliers that are higher than market rates; Limited ability to adjust production volumes in response to our customers demand fluctuations; Labor and political unrest at facilities we do not operate or own; 18 Table of Contents Geopolitical disputes disrupting our supply chain; Business, legal compliance, litigation and financial concerns affecting our suppliers or their ability to manufacture and ship our products in the quantities, quality and manner we require; and Disruptions due to floods, earthquakes, storms and other natural disasters, particularly in countries with limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. We have encountered some of these risks, such as the 2011 Thailand floods, which subjected us to supply constraints, price increases and minimum purchase commitments, and expect to be subject to similar risks in the future. When we do, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The risks associated with our out-sourced manufacturing model are particularly acute when we transition products to new facilities or manufacturers, introduce and increase volumes of new products or qualify new contract manufacturers or suppliers, at which times our ability to manage the relationships among us, our manufacturing partners and our component suppliers, becomes critical. New manufacturers, products, components or facilities create increased costs and risk that we will fail to deliver high quality products in the required volumes to our customers. Any failure of a manufacturer or component supplier to meet our quality, quantity or delivery requirements in a cost-effective manner will harm our business, operating results and customer relationships. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for critical product components. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for drives and other components utilized in the assembly of our products, including certain single source suppliers, which has subjected us, and could in the future subject us to price rigidity, periodic supply constraints, and the inability to produce our products with the quality and in the quantities demanded. When industry supply is constrained, our suppliers may allocate volumes away from us and to our competitors, all of which rely on many of the same suppliers as we do. Accordingly, our operating results may be harmed. Our gross margins vary. Our gross margins reflect a variety of factors, including competitive pricing, component and product design, the volume and relative mixture of product, services and software entitlements and maintenance (SEM) revenues. Increased component costs, increased pricing pressures, the relative and varying rates of increases or decreases in component costs and product price, changes in product, services and SEM revenue mixture or decreased volume could harm our revenues, gross margins or earnings. Our gross margins are also impacted by quality failures and our sales and distribution activities, including, without limitation, pricing actions, rebates, sales initiatives and discount levels, and the timing of service contract renewals. The costs of third-party components comprise a significant portion of our product costs. While we generally have been able to manage our component and product design costs, we may have difficulty managing these costs if supplies of certain components become limited or component prices increase. Any such limitation could result in an increase in our product costs. An increase in component or design costs relative to our product prices could harm our gross margins and earnings. Increasing competition and industry consolidation could harm our business and operating results. The storage and data management markets are intensely competitive and are characterized by rapidly changing technology and consolidation. We compete with many companies in the markets we serve. Over the last decade, the expansion of market opportunities by large, broad-portfolio technology companies, by vertical integration of storage products, technologies and services, such as the acquisition of Sun Microsystems by Oracle, and through internal and external storage-related corporate initiatives, by companies such as HP, Dell and IBM, has increased the number of large, diversified technology companies with which we compete. Accordingly, many of our key competitors have greater financial resources and offer a broad portfolio of IT products and 19 Table of Contents services (full-stack vendors). These competitors typically maintain broad and deep relationships with customers and partners across a diverse portfolio of products and services. They may also be able to offer lower pricing (or other preferred terms) on storage system products due to these broader relationships. We believe further storage market expansion by large, diversified technology companies, in addition to any future industry consolidation, may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete for customers as sole-source vendors. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish strategic alliances among themselves or with third parties, including some of our partners. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Competitive pressures we face could harm our business and operating results. A detailed description of storage and software products we compete with is identified in the Business Section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There have been trends toward consolidation in the storage industry and market expansion by large broad technology companies for several years, both of which have risks for us. Among other things, the last few years have witnessed considerable consolidation in the disk drive industry, an industry we depend upon for critical storage components. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving, maturing industry, as companies become unable to maintain their competitive positions or continue operations and as customers demand more flexible business models and terms. Disk drive and other component manufacturing industry consolidations may lead to higher component prices and supply constraints for us, which may, in turn, harm our operating results. Our OEM relationships may not generate significant revenues. We have OEM relationships with several companies, which collectively accounted for 12% of our net revenue during the year ended April 26, 2013. These OEMs market and sell their branded solutions based on our unified solutions, as well as associated software offerings. While these arrangements are part of our general strategy to expand our reach to more customers and into more countries, we do not have exclusive relationships with our OEMs, and there is no minimum commitment for any given period of time. We also compete with some of our OEMs, further complicating our relationships with them. Therefore, our relationships with these OEMs may not continue to generate significant revenues. In addition, we have no control over the products that the OEMs select to sell, or their release schedule and timing of those products; nor do we control their pricing. If our OEM relationships increase, we may experience distribution channel conflicts between our direct sales force and the OEMs or among our channel partners. If we fail to minimize channel conflicts, or if our OEM relationships do not continue to generate significant revenues, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. A portion of our revenues is generated by large, recurring purchases from various customers, resellers and distributors. A loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by any of these parties has negatively affected in the past, and in the future could negatively affect, our revenues. For the year ended April 26, 2013, sales to distributors Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Avnet, Inc. accounted for 19% and 15%, respectively, of our net revenues. We generally do not enter into binding purchase commitments with our customers, resellers and distributors for extended periods of time, and thus we may not be able to continue to receive large, recurring orders from these customers, resellers or distributors. For example, our reseller agreements generally do not require minimum purchases, and our customers, resellers and distributors can stop purchasing and marketing our products at any time. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions may negatively impact the solvency of our customers, resellers and distributors or the ability of such customers, resellers and distributors to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products. If any of our key customers, resellers or distributors changes its pricing practices, reduces the size or frequency of its orders for our products, or stops purchasing our products altogether, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. 20 Table of Contents Reduced U.S. government demand could materially harm our business and operating results. In addition, we could be harmed by claims that we or a channel partner have failed to comply with regulatory and contractual requirements applicable to sales to the U.S. government. The U.S. government has become an important customer for us. However, government demand is uncertain, as it is subject to political and budgetary fluctuations and constraints. Recent and continued uncertainty regarding the U.S. budget and debt levels has increased demand uncertainty for our products. If the government or individual agencies within the government reduce or shift their capital IT spending patterns, our revenues and operating results may be harmed. Selling our products to the U.S. government, whether directly or through channel partners, also subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements by either us or our channel partners could subject us to investigations, fines, and other penalties, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. As an example, the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the General Services Administration (GSA) have in the past pursued claims against and financial settlements with IT vendors, including us and several of our competitors and channel partners, under the False Claims Act and other statutes related to pricing and discount practices and compliance with certain provisions of GSA contracts for sales to the federal government. Although the DOJ and GSA currently have no claims pending against us, we could face claims in the future. Violations of certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future government contracting. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results and financial position. Some of our products are subject to U.S. export control laws and other laws affecting the countries in which our products and services may be sold, distributed, or delivered; any violation of these laws could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to import and export restrictions and regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the Commerce Departments Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) and the trade and economic sanctions regulations administered by the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The U.S., through the BIS and OFAC, places restrictions on the sale or export of certain products and services to certain countries and persons. Violators of these export control and sanctions laws may be subject to significant penalties, which may include significant monetary fines, criminal proceedings against them and their officers and employees, a denial of export privileges, and suspension or debarment from selling products to the federal government. We take a variety of precautions to prevent our products from being shipped to U.S.-sanctioned targets; however, our products could be shipped to those targets by third parties, including potentially our channel partners, despite such precautions. For instance, media reports starting in November 2011 have asserted that certain of our products were delivered to Syria through a third-party possibly in violation of U.S. export-control laws. We have publicly stated that we condemn any use of our products or technologies in Syria, we have notified the U.S. government that we are conducting a review of these allegations, and intend to cooperate fully with any government inquiry. We have met with U.S. government officials, provided information at their request, and expressed our willingness to continue cooperating with any further inquiry or investigation. If we are found to have violated U.S. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. Even if we are not found to have violated such laws, the political and media scrutiny surrounding any governmental investigation of us could cause us significant financial and reputational harm and distract senior executives from managing our normal day-to-day operations, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. If we are unable to maintain and develop relationships with strategic partners, our revenues may be harmed. Our growth strategy includes developing and maintaining strategic partnerships with major third-party software and hardware vendors to integrate our products into their products and also co-market our products with 21 Table of Contents them. A detailed description of these partnership relationships is identified in the Business Section of this Annual Report. A number of these strategic partners are industry leaders that offer us expanded access to segments of the storage and data management market. However, there is intense competition for attractive strategic partners, and these relationships may not be exclusive, may not generate significant revenues and may terminate on short notice. For instance some of our partners are also partnering with our competitors, which may increase the availability of competing solutions and harm our ability to grow our relationships with those partners. Moreover, some of our partners, particularly large, more diversified technology companies, are also competitors, complicating our relationships. If we are unable to establish new partnerships or maintain existing partnerships, if our strategic partners favor their relationships with other vendors in the storage industry or if our strategic partners increasingly compete with us, we could experience lower than expected revenues, suffer delays in product development, or experience other harm to our operating results and business. Our failure to adjust to emerging standards in the storage industry may harm our business. Emerging standards in the storage and data management markets may adversely affect the UNIX , Windows and the World Wide Web server markets upon which we depend. For example, we provide our open access data retention solutions to customers within the financial services, healthcare, pharmaceutical and government market segments, industries that are subject to various evolving governmental regulations with respect to data access, reliability and permanence (such as Rule 17(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) in the U.S. and in the other countries in which we operate. If our products do not meet and continue to comply with these evolving governmental regulations in this regard, customers in these market and geographical segments will not purchase our products, and we will not be able to expand our product offerings in these market and geographical segments at the rates which we have forecasted. If our products are defective, our gross margins, operating results and customer relationships may be harmed. Our products are complex. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, quality issues. Quality risk is most acute when we are introducing new products, as we discuss in the next risk factor. If we fail to remedy a product defect, we may experience a failure of a product line, temporary or permanent withdrawal from a product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs or product reengineering expenses and higher ongoing warranty and service costs, and these occurrences could have a material impact on our gross margins, business and operating results. We may be subject to losses that may result from or are alleged to result from defects in our products, which could subject us to claims for damages, including consequential damages. If we are unable to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for clustered Data ONTAP or other new products while managing the transition from older products, or if we cannot provide the expected level of quality, service and support for our new products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our future growth depends upon the successful development and introduction of new hardware and software products. Due to the complexity of storage subsystems and storage security appliances and the difficulty in gauging the engineering effort required to produce new products, such products are subject to significant technical and quality control risks. We are currently devoting considerable effort and resources to develop, introduce and gain customer acceptance for our clustered Data ONTAP-based products (cDOT). cDOT is our next generation storage operating system for our core products and represents a fundamental and revolutionary change to our solution architecture. Over time, our goal is to replace our existing technology Data ONTAP 7-Mode with cDOT and, consequently, we anticipate that a majority of our revenues will ultimately derive from cDOT. We face considerable challenges as we develop and market cDOT, including, without limitation, cost and complexity associated with migrating customer data and applications from legacy systems to cDOT-based systems, 22 Table of Contents development of some features for cDOT currently available with Data ONTAP 7 and potentially required by our customers, and maintaining service, support and customer relationships as we replace Data ONTAP-7 with cDOT. Nevertheless, if we are unable, for technological, customer reluctance or other reasons, to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance for cDOT, or any other new products, as and when required by the market and our customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. New or additional product introductions also increase the complexities of forecasting revenues, and subject us to additional financial and operational risks. In addition, as new or enhanced products are introduced, we must also avoid excessive levels of older product inventories, and ensure that enough supplies of new products can be delivered to meet customers demands. If these risks are not managed effectively, we could experience material risks to our operations, financial condition and business model. As we enter new or emerging markets, we will likely increase demands on our service and support operations and may be exposed to additional competition. We may not be able to provide products, service and support to effectively compete for these market opportunities. Due to the global nature of our business, risks inherent in our international operations could materially harm our business. A significant portion of our operations are located, and a significant portion of our revenues are derived, outside of the U.S. For the year ended April 26, 2013, our international revenues accounted for 50% of our total revenues. In addition, a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S., and we have research and development and service centers overseas. Accordingly, our business and our future operating results could be adversely affected by factors affecting our international operations, but not experienced in the U.S., including, among other things, local political or economic conditions, trade protection and export and import requirements, local labor conditions, transportation costs, government spending patterns, acts of terrorism, international conflicts and natural disasters in areas with limited infrastructure. In addition, due to the global nature of our business, we are subject to complex legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate and sell our products, including antitrust and anti-competition laws, rules and regulations, and regulations related to data privacy. We are also subject to the potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation, or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws. Such factors could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial position. We face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our international operations. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. We utilize forward and option contracts in an attempt to reduce the adverse earnings impact from the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on certain assets and liabilities as well as certain anticipated foreign currency cash flows on a short-term basis. Our hedging strategies may not be successful, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, our foreign currency exposure on assets and liabilities for which we do not hedge could have a material impact on our results of operations in periods when the U.S. dollar significantly fluctuates in relation to unhedged non-U.S. currencies in which we transact business. Additional risks inherent in our international business activities generally include, among others, longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in managing international operations. Moreover, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures, or U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. There can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business 23 Table of Contents operations, will comply with these policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. Any such violation could subject us to fines and other penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our effective tax rate is influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include among other things, fluctuations in our earnings and financial results in the various countries and states in which we do business, and changes to the tax regulations in such jurisdictions. Any of these factors could materially impact our operating results. We receive significant tax benefits from sales to our non-U.S. customers. These benefits are contingent upon existing tax laws and regulations in the U.S. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. Future changes in domestic or international tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. We have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes or foreign withholding taxes that may result from future remittances of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The Presidents administration and Congress have announced several proposals to reform U.S. tax rules, including proposals that may result in a reduction or elimination of the deferral of U.S. income tax on our future unrepatriated earnings. Should such anti-deferral provisions be enacted, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected. We are currently undergoing income tax audits in the U.S. and several foreign tax jurisdictions, as described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. The rights to some of our intellectual property (IP) are owned by certain of our foreign subsidiaries, and payments are made between U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions relating to the use of this IP in a qualified cost sharing arrangement. In recent years, several other U.S. companies have had their foreign IP arrangements challenged as part of Internal Revenue Service (IRS) examinations, which have resulted in material proposed assessments and/or litigation with respect to those companies. If the ultimate determination of income taxes or at-source withholding taxes assessed under the current IRS audits or under audits being conducted in any of the other tax jurisdictions in which we operate results in an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our international operations currently benefit from a tax ruling concluded in the Netherlands which expires on April 30, 2015 and results in a lower level of earnings subject to tax in the Netherlands. If we are unable to negotiate a similar tax ruling upon expiration of the current ruling, our effective tax rate could increase and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected by different and evolving interpretations of existing law or regulations, which in turn would negatively impact our operating and financial results as a whole. Our effective tax rate could also be adversely affected if there is a change in international operations and how the operations are managed and structured. The price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. Our Convertible Note conversion may adversely affect our results of operations, particularly our earnings per share. Any conversion of the Convertible Notes may cause dilution to our stockholders and to our earnings per share. If the average trading price of our common stock in each fiscal quarter exceeds the conversion price of $31.85 per share, the Convertible Notes will cause an increase in diluted share count and result in lower reported earnings per share. The Convertible Note Hedge transactions discussed below, if exercised upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, are expected to reduce approximately 80% of the common stock potentially issuable on conversion of the Convertible Notes. Upon conversion of any Convertible Notes, we are required to deliver cash 24 Table of Contents up to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes and, with respect to any excess conversion value greater than the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, shares of our common stock, which will result in dilution to our stockholders. As discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in June 2013 we issued 4.9 million shares in connection with the settlement of the Convertible Notes and received 3.9 million shares in connection with the exercise of the Convertible Note Hedges. The Convertible Note Hedges and warrant transactions that we entered into in connection with the sale of the Convertible Notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into privately negotiated Convertible Note Hedge transactions with certain option counterparties (the Counterparties), which are expected to offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes. At the same time, we also entered into warrant transactions with the Counterparties pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock above a certain strike price. In connection with these hedging transactions, the Counterparties may have entered into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock or purchased shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions at or following the pricing of the Convertible Notes. The Counterparties are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock or entering into other derivative transactions. Additionally, these transactions may expose us to counterparty credit risk for nonperformance. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes will depend, in part, on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. In addition, if our stock price exceeds the strike price for the warrants, there could be additional dilution to our stockholders, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. The price of our common stock could also be affected by sales of our common stock by investors who view the Convertible Notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in our Company and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock by holders of the Convertible Notes. The hedging or arbitrage could, in turn, affect the trading price of the Convertible Notes and warrants. As discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in June 2013 we exercised the Convertible Note Hedges and settled our Convertible Notes. Future issuances of common stock related to our Convertible Notes, warrants and employee equity awards may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and the Convertible Notes. The conversion of some or all of our outstanding Convertible Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver common stock upon conversion of the Convertible Notes. Any new issuance of equity securities, including the issuance of shares upon conversion of the Convertible Notes or the exercise of related warrants which are not offset by our Convertible Note Hedges, could dilute the interests of our then-existing stockholders, including holders who receive shares upon conversion of their Convertible Notes, and could substantially decrease the trading price of our common stock and the Convertible Notes. In addition, any sales in the public market of any common stock issuable upon such conversion or the exercise of warrants could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. As discussed in the subsequent events note to our consolidated financial statements, in June 2013 we issued 4.9 million shares in connection with the settlement of the Convertible Notes and received 3.9 million shares in connection with the exercise of the Convertible Note Hedges. Our failure to pay quarterly dividends to our shareholders could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. Our ability to pay quarterly dividends will be subject to, among other things, our financial position and results of operations, available cash and cash flow, capital requirements, and other factors. Any reduction or discontinuation of quarterly dividends could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline significantly. 25 Table of Contents Moreover, in the event our payment of quarterly dividends is reduced or discontinued, our failure or inability to resume paying dividends at historical levels could result in a persistently low market valuation of our stock. Our acquisitions may not achieve expected benefits, increase our liabilities, disrupt our existing business and harm our results of operations. As part of our strategy, we seek to acquire other businesses and technologies to complement our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, or enhance our technical capabilities. In fiscal 2011, we completed acquisitions of two technology companies. In fiscal 2012, we completed the acquisition of certain assets related to Engenio, and in fiscal 2013, we completed the acquisitions of CacheIQ and IonGrid. The benefits we expect to receive from these and other acquisitions depend on our ability to successfully conduct due diligence, negotiate the terms of acquisition and integrate the acquired business. Any inaccuracy in our acquisition assumptions, any failure to uncover liabilities or risks associated with the acquisition, any failure to make the acquisition on favorable terms, or any failure to integrate the acquired business or assets as and when expected, may reduce or eliminate the expected benefits of the acquisition to us, increase our costs, disrupt our operations, result in additional liabilities, investigations and litigation, and may also harm our strategy, our results of operations or our business. The failure to achieve expected acquisition benefits may also result in impairment charges for goodwill and purchased intangible assets. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our portfolio investments and in interest rates; impairment of our investments could harm our financial results. We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. A significant part of our investment portfolio consists of U.S. government securities. If global credit experiences prolonged periods of decline, or if there is a downgrade of U.S. government debt, our investment portfolio may be adversely impacted and we could determine that more of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could adversely affect our financial results. For a summary of these investments and our management of the same, please see