Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content licenses, if member acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. Payment terms for streaming licenses, especially programming that is initially available in the applicable territory on our service (original programming) or that is considered output content, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. To the extent member and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content licensing commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain licenses. In addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our 3 Table of Contents business and the market segments in which we operate. As we expand internationally, we must license content in advance of entering into a new geographical market. If we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content licenses, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. If we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. We are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, as well as continuing to operate our DVD service within the U.S. As we expand internationally, we are managing our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and Internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. As we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations, our business may be adversely affected. If our efforts to build strong brand identity and improve member satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. We must continue to build and maintain strong brand identity. We believe that strong brand identity will be important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. To build a strong brand we believe we must continue to offer content and service features that our members value and enjoy. We also believe that these must be coupled with effective consumer communications, such as marketing, customer service and public relations. If our efforts to promote and maintain our brand are not successful, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. Such a result, coupled with the increasingly long-term and fixed cost nature of our content acquisition licenses, may adversely affect our operating results. With respect to our expansion into international markets, we will also need to establish our brand and to the extent we are not successful, our business in new markets may be adversely impacted. Changes in our member acquisition sources could adversely affect our marketing expenses and member levels may be adversely affected. We utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, to promote our service to potential new members. We may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. If companies that currently promote our service decide that we are negatively impacting their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer be given access to such marketing channels. We also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected We face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we produce, license and/or distribute through our service. As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright, or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we produce, license and/or distribute. We also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our website such as member reviews. As we expand our original programming, we will become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. We will also take on risks associated with the production, such as completion and key talent risk. To the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, or if we become liable for content we produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. We cannot assure that we are indemnified to cover claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. 4 Table of Contents If studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide our members with content they can watch instantly depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. If the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. Many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. Because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. As competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. As we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. We are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. Within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our member acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. Music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. In this regard, we engage in negotiations with performing rights organizations and collection societies (PROs) that hold certain rights to music interests when "publicly performed" or communicated to the public in connection with streaming content into various territories. If we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. Additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain PROs and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with PROs, or result in music publishers represented by certain PROs to unilaterally withdraw rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. Failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. We rely upon a number of partners to offer instant streaming of content from Netflix to various devices. We currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of Internet-connected devices, including TVs, digital video players, game consoles and mobile devices. We intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream TV shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing or other impediments to our streaming content, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Our agreements with our consumer electronics partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. Furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than Netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and Netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward Netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. Any significant disruption in our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations could result in a loss or degradation of service and could adversely impact our business. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks, or other attempts to harm these systems. Interruptions in these systems, or with the Internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill DVD selections. From time to time, we experience service interruptions and have voluntarily provided affected members with a credit during periods of extended outage. Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. Our servers and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions and periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Any attempt by hackers to disrupt our service or otherwise access our systems, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. We have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and to date hackers have not had a material impact on our service 5 Table of Contents or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. Our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. Efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. Any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of members and adversely affect our business and results of operation. We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party Web hosting provider. In addition, we utilize third-party Internet-based or cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. We also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream TV shows and movies in high volume to Netflix members over the Internet. Problems faced by us or our third-party Web hosting, "cloud" computing, or content delivery network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, could adversely impact the experience of our members. We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. Amazon Web Services ("AWS") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS. Currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on AWS. Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. While the retail side of Amazon competes with us, we do not believe that Amazon will use the AWS operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. If we experience difficulties with the operation and implementation of Open Connect, our single-purpose Netflix content delivery network (CDN), our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. We have built and deployed a single-purpose Netflix content delivery network that we call Open Connect. Given our size and growth, we believe it makes economic sense to have our own specialized CDN. We will continue to work with commercial CDN partners, but we believe that the vast majority of our streaming bits will ultimately be served by Open Connect. To the extent Internet Service Providers ("ISPs") do not interconnect with Open Connect or if we experience difficulties in operating the Open Connect CDN service, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. Failure to implement Open Connect could require us to engage third-party solutions to deliver our content to ISPs, which could increase our costs and negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to effectively utilize our recommendation and merchandising technology or develop user interfaces that maintain or increase member engagement with our service, our business may suffer. Our proprietary recommendation and merchandising technology enables us to predict and recommend titles and effectively merchandise our library to our members. We also develop, test and implement various user interfaces across multiple devices, in an effort to maintain and increase member engagement with our service. We are continually refining our recommendation and merchandising technology as well as our various user interfaces in an effort to improve the predictive accuracy of our TV show and movie recommendations and the usefulness of and engagement with our service by our members. We may experience difficulties in implementing refinements or other, third-party recommendation or merchandising technology or interfaces may become more popular with or useful to our members. In addition, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to make and implement meaningful refinements to our recommendation technology. If our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy or if we are unable to implement meaningful improvements thereto or otherwise improve our user interfaces, our service may be less useful to our members. Such failures could lead to the following: our member satisfaction may decrease, members may perceive our service to be of lower value and our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected; and our ability to effectively merchandise and utilize our library will be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our proprietary technology to stream TV shows and movies and to manage other aspects of our operations, and the failure of this technology to operate effectively could adversely affect our business. We continually enhance or modify the technology used for our operations. We cannot be sure that any enhancements or other modifications we make to our operations will achieve the intended results or otherwise be of value to our members. Future enhancements and modifications to our technology could consume considerable resources. If we are unable to maintain and enhance our technology to manage the streaming of TV shows and movies to our members in a timely and efficient manner and/or the processing of DVDs among our shipping centers, our ability to retain existing members and to add new members may be impaired. In addition, if our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to retain existing members and to add new members may be impaired. Also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If government regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. The adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting Internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. For example, in late 2010, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. Recently, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia struck down the FCCs net neutrality rules and it is currently uncertain how the FCC will respond to this decision. To the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted. As we expand internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the Internet. To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our member acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the Internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. As such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. For example, Comcast exempted certain of its own Internet video traffic (e.g., Streampix videos to the Xbox 360) from a bandwidth cap that applies to all unaffiliated Internet video traffic (e.g., Netflix videos to the Xbox 360). While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. In international markets, especially in Latin America, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. Privacy concerns could limit our ability to leverage our member data and our disclosure of member data could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws, that limit our ability to use 7 Table of Contents collected data, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. As our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer information. Failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. Our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our member data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. We maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. With respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. Despite these measures, we, or our payment processing services, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. In the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. Additionally, we could face legal claims for such a breach. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. For these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members data occur, our business could be adversely affected. Increases in payment processing fees, changes to operating rules, the acceptance of new types of payment methods or payment fraud could increase our operating expenses and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our members pay for our membership services predominately using credit and debit cards (together, "payment cards"). Our acceptance of these payment methods requires our payment of certain fees. From time to time, these fees may increase, either as a result of rate changes by the payment processing companies or as a result of a change in our business practices which increase the fees on a cost-per-transaction basis. Such increases may adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to rules, regulations and practices governing our accepted payment methods. These rules, regulations and practices could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept these payment methods, and our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We accept payment methods other than payment cards. As our service continues to evolve and expand internationally, we will likely continue to explore accepting various forms of payment, which may have higher fees and costs than our currently accepted payment methods. If more consumers utilize higher cost payment methods, our payment costs could increase and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, we do not obtain signatures from members in connection with their use of payment methods. To the extent we do not obtain members signatures, we may be liable for fraudulent payment transactions, even when the associated financial institution approves payment of the orders. From time to time, fraudulent payment methods are used to obtain service. While we do have certain safeguards in place, we nonetheless experience some fraudulent transactions. We do not currently carry insurance against the risk of fraudulent payment transactions. A failure to adequately control fraudulent payment transactions would harm our business and results of operations. If the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video saturates, our business will be adversely affected. The market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video has grown significantly. Much of the increasing growth can be attributed to the ability of our members to stream TV shows and movies on their TVs, computers and mobile devices. As we face more competition in our market segment, our rate of growth relative to overall growth in the segment may decline. Further, a decline in our rate of growth could indicate that the market segment for online subscription-based entertainment video is beginning to saturate. While we believe that this segment will continue to grow for the foreseeable future, if this market segment were to saturate, our business would be adversely affected. If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. We have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. Nevertheless, these 8 Table of Contents applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our patents, trademarks and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our Web site. We use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. Most of these matters relate to patent infringement lawsuits, which are typically expensive to defend. Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from and incremental to those in the U.S. In addition to the risks that we face in the U.S., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content library before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; 9 Table of Contents unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the United States, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, such as ISS, PIS, COFINS and CIDE in Brazil, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given inter-company transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; low usage and/or penetration of Internet connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; and availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our future international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. From time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. The decision to obtain additional capital will depend, among other things, on our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. We have issued debt offerings and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. As of December 31, 2013, we had $500 million in 5.375% senior notes. Risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. We plan to obtain approximately $400 million in long term debt in the first quarter of 2014 and it is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Reed Hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. If memberships to our Domestic DVD segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The number of memberships to our DVD-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. We believe, however, that the domestic DVD business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. The contribution profit generated by our domestic DVD business will help provide capital resources to fund losses arising from our growth internationally. To the extent that the rate of decline in our DVD-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. We do not anticipate increasing resources to our DVD operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. To the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our DVD-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in DVD-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. Changes in U.S. Postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and member satisfaction. We rely exclusively on the U.S. Postal Service to deliver DVDs from our shipping centers and to return DVDs to us from our members. Increases in postage delivery rates, including those resulting from changes to policies on the requirements of first class mail such as size, weight or machinability, could adversely affect our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit. If the U.S. Postal Service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. Our stock price is volatile. The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. 11 Table of Contents As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. Financial forecasting by us and financial analysts who may publish estimates of our performance may differ materially from actual results. Given the dynamic nature of our business, the current uncertain economic climate and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and, number of total and paid member additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 12 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties We do not own any real estate. The following table sets forth the location, approximate square footage, lease expiration and the primary use of each of our principal properties: Location Estimated Square Footage Lease Expiration Date Primary Use Los Gatos, California 250,000 March 2018 Global streaming corporate office, general and administrative, marketing and technology and development Beverly Hills, California 79,000 August 2018 Global content acquisition, marketing and general and administrative Santa Clara, California 23,000 October 2016 Global streaming customer service center Columbus, Ohio 90,000 August 2016 Domestic DVD receiving and storage center, processing and shipping center for the Columbus area Fremont, California 57,000 March 2019 Domestic DVD corporate office, general and administrative and technology and development Hillsboro, Oregon 49,000 April 2016 Domestic streaming and Domestic DVD customer service center We operate a nationwide network of distribution centers for our Domestic DVD segment that serve major metropolitan areas throughout the U.S. These fulfillment centers are under lease agreements that expire at various dates through January 2017. We also operate data centers in a leased third-party facility in Santa Clara, California. In the third quarter of 2013, the Company entered into lease agreements to expand its Los Gatos, California headquarters by 263,000 square feet, not reflected in the table above, with 124 month lease terms commencing after construction of the facilities, which is expected in 2015. We believe that our current space will be adequate or that additional space will be available on commercially reasonable terms for the foreseeable future. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 6 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , under the caption "Legal Proceedings" which information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 13 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol NFLX. The following table sets forth the intraday high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 2013 2012 High Low High Low First quarter $ 197.62 $ 90.69 $ 133.43 $ 70.13 Second quarter 248.85 159.00 114.80 60.70 Third quarter 320.39 212.00 86.65 52.81 Fourth quarter 389.16 282.80 97.80 54.34 Holders A s of January 30, 2014, there were approximately 215 stock holders of record of our common stock, although there is a significantly larger number of beneficial owners of our common stock. Dividends We have not declared or paid any cash dividends, and we have no present intention of paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 14 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed filed with the Commission or soliciting material under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings. The following graph compares, for the five year period ended December 31, 2013, the total cumulative stockholder return on the Companys common stock with the total cumulative return of the NASDAQ Composite Index, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P North American Technology Internet Index. The Company was added to the S&P 500 Index on December 18, 2010. Measurement points are the last trading day of each of the Companys fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, December 31, 2009, December 31, 2010, December 31, 2011, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013. Total cumulative stockholder return assumes $100 invested at the beginning of the period in the Companys common stock, the stocks represented in the NASDAQ Composite Index, the stocks represented in the S&P 500 Index and the stocks represented in the S&P North American Technology Internet Index, respectively, and reinvestment of any dividends. The S&P North American Technology Internet Index is a modified-capitalization weighted index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet content and access providers, Internet software and services companies and e-commerce companies. Historical stock price performance should not be relied upon as an indication of future stock price performance. 15 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . Consolidated Statements of Operations: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues $ 4,374,562 $ 3,609,282 $ 3,204,577 $ 2,162,625 $ 1,670,269 Cost of revenues 3,083,256 2,625,866 2,039,901 1,357,355 1,079,271 Operating income 228,347 49,992 376,068 283,641 191,939 Net income 112,403 17,152 226,126 160,853 115,860 Earnings per share: Basic $ 1.93 $ 0.31 $ 4.28 $ 3.06 $ 2.05 Diluted $ 1.85 $ 0.29 $ 4.16 $ 2.96 $ 1.98 Weighted-average common shares outstanding: Basic 58,198 55,521 52,847 52,529 56,560 Diluted 60,761 58,904 54,369 54,304 58,416 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (1) 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 97,831 $ 21,586 $ 317,712 $ 276,401 $ 325,063 Free cash flow (2) (16,300 ) (58,151 ) 186,550 131,007 97,122 (1) Certain amounts in prior periods have been revised. See Note 2 to Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. (2) See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a definition of free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. Consolidated Balance Sheets: As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 1,200,405 $ 748,078 $ 797,811 $ 350,387 $ 320,242 Total content library, net 3,797,492 2,874,170 1,966,643 361,979 146,139 Working capital 904,560 564,865 605,802 248,652 183,577 Total assets 5,412,563 3,967,890 3,069,196 982,067 679,734 Long-term debt 500,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 200,000 Long-term debt due to related party 200,000 200,000 Non-current content liabilities 1,345,590 1,076,622 739,628 48,179 2,227 Total stockholders equity 1,333,561 744,673 642,810 290,164 199,143 16 Table of Contents Other Data: As of / Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands) Net consolidated streaming member additions during period 11,083 9,738 Total consolidated streaming members 44,350 33,267 23,529 Prior to certain changes to our pricing and plan structure in 2011, we did not separately track streaming memberships. 17 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are the worlds leading Internet television network with more than 44 million streaming members in over 40 countries enjoying more than one billion hours of TV shows and movies per month, including original series. Our members can watch as much as they want, anytime, anywhere, on nearly any Internet-connected screen. Members can play, pause and resume watching, all without commercials or commitments. Additionally, in the United States ("U.S."), our members can receive DVDs delivered quickly to their homes. We are a pioneer in the Internet delivery of TV shows and movies, launching our streaming service in 2007. Since this launch, we have developed an ecosystem for Internet-connected devices and have licensed increasing amounts of content that enable consumers to enjoy TV shows and movies directly on their TVs, computers and mobile devices. As a result of these efforts, we have experienced growing consumer acceptance of and interest in the delivery of TV shows and movies directly over the Internet. Historically, our acquisition of new members has been seasonal with the first and fourth quarters representing our strongest net member additions and our second quarter representing the lowest net member additions in a calendar year. Our core strategy is to grow our streaming subscription business domestically and internationally. We are continuously improving our members' experience - expanding our streaming content, with a focus on programming an overall mix of content that delights our customers, enhancing our user interface and extending our streaming service to even more Internet-connected devices while staying within the parameters of our consolidated net income (loss) and operating segment contribution profit (loss) targets. Results of Operations The following represents our consolidated performance highlights: Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2011 2013 vs. 2012 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands) Revenues $ 4,374,562 $ 3,609,282 $ 3,204,577 21 % 13 % Operating income 228,347 49,992 376,068 357 % (87 )% Net income 112,403 17,152 226,126 555 % (92 )% Free cash flow (1) (16,300 ) (58,151 ) 186,550 72 % NM (1) See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a definition of free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities. Consolidated revenues for 2013 increased as compared to prior years due to growth in international and domestic streaming memberships. Operating income and net income increased as compared to prior year by $178.4 million and $95.3 million, respectively, due to the increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in the cost of revenues due to continued investments in existing and new streaming content. Free cash flow was $128.7 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2013. The excess of net income over free cash flow has increased from $75.3 million and $39.6 million in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increases are primarily the result of increased investments in original content or content that is licensed in an earlier window through an output arrangement which will typically, depending upon the terms, require more up-front cash payments relative to the expense. The following represents the key elements to our segment results of operations: We define contribution profit as revenues less cost of revenues and marketing expenses. We believe this is an important measure of our operating segment performance as it represents each segment's performance before discrete global corporate costs. For the Domestic and International streaming segments, content licensing expenses, which include the amortization of the streaming content library and other expenses associated with the licensing of streaming content, represent the vast 18 Table of Contents majority of cost of revenues. Streaming content rights are generally specific to a geographic region and accordingly our international expansion will require us to obtain additional streaming content licenses to support new international markets. Other cost of revenues such as content delivery expenses, customer service and payment processing fees are lower as a percentage of total cost of revenues as compared to content licensing expenses. We utilize both our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us efficiently stream a high volume of content to our members over the Internet. Content delivery expenses, therefore, also include equipment costs related to our streaming content delivery network ("Open Connect") and all third-party costs associated with delivering streaming content over the Internet. Cost of revenues in the Domestic DVD segment consists primarily of content delivery, expenses related to the acquisition of content, including amortization of DVD content library and revenue sharing expenses, and other expenses associated with our DVD processing and customer service centers. Content delivery expenses for the Domestic DVD segment consist of the postage costs to mail DVDs to and from our paying members and the packaging and label costs for the mailers. For the Domestic and International streaming segments, marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and payments made to our affiliates and consumer electronics partners. Advertising expenses include promotional activities such as television and online advertising. Payments to our affiliates and device partners include fixed fee and /or revenue sharing payments. Marketing costs are primarily incurred by our Domestic and International streaming segments given our focus on building consumer awareness of the streaming offerings. Marketing expenses incurred by our International streaming segment have been significant and will fluctuate dependent upon the number of International territories in which our streaming service is offered and the timing of the launch of new territories. Marketing costs are immaterial for the Domestic DVD segment. We have demonstrated our ability to grow contribution margin as evidenced by the increase in contribution margin from 12% when we first began separately reporting Domestic streaming results in the fourth quarter of 2011 to 23% in the fourth quarter of 2013. As a result of our focus on growing the streaming segments, contribution margins for the Domestic and International streaming segments are lower than for our Domestic DVD segment. Investments in content and marketing associated with the International streaming segment will continue to fluctuate dependent upon the number of International territories in which our streaming service is offered and the timing of the launch of new territories. As we grow our streaming segments, we continue to shift spending away from the Domestic DVD segment to invest more in streaming content and marketing for our streaming services. 2013 Segment Results Domestic Streaming Segment As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Members: Net additions 6,274 5,475 15 % Members at end of period 33,420 27,146 23 % Paid members at end of period 31,712 25,471 25 % Contribution profit: Revenues $ 2,751,375 $ 2,184,868 26 % Cost of revenues 1,849,154 1,558,864 19 % Marketing 279,454 256,995 9 % Contribution profit 622,767 369,009 69 % Contribution margin 23 % 17 % In the Domestic streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content offered through a membership plan. Our Domestic streaming membership plans are priced primarily at $7.99 per month. In 2013, we introduced membership plans priced at $11.99 per month under which members can stream content on up to four devices concurrently. New member additions and revenue related to $11.99 membership plans were not material for the year ended December 31, 2013. The $566.5 million increase in our domestic streaming revenues was due to the 26% growth in the average number of paid memberships. 19 Table of Contents The $290.3 million increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to the $226.3 million increase in content licensing expenses resulting from continued investments in existing and new streaming content including more exclusive and original programming. In addition, content delivery expenses increased by $31.0 million and other costs, such as payment processing fees and customer service call centers, increased $33.0 million due to our growing member base. Marketing expenses increased $22.5 million primarily due to an increase in advertising partially offset by a decrease in payments to affiliates in the U.S. Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 23% for the year ended December 31, 2013, which increased as compared to the contribution margin of 17% for the year ended December 31, 2012, as a result of growing memberships and revenue faster than content and marketing spending. International Streaming Segment As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Members: Net additions 4,809 4,263 13 % Members at end of period 10,930 6,121 79 % Paid members at end of period 9,722 4,892 99 % Contribution loss: Revenues $ 712,390 $ 287,542 148 % Cost of revenues 774,753 475,570 63 % Marketing 211,969 201,115 5 % Contribution loss (274,332 ) (389,143 ) (30 )% Contribution margin (39 )% (135 )% In the International streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content offered through a membership plan priced at the equivalent of USD $7 to $14 per month. We launched our streaming service in Canada in September 2010 and have continuously expanded our services internationally with launches in Latin America in September 2011, the U.K. and Ireland in January 2012, Finland, Denmark, Sweden and Norway in October 2012 and most recently the Netherlands in September 2013. We plan to continue to expand our services internationally and expect a substantial European expansion in 2014. The $424.8 million increase in our international revenues was primarily due to the 134% growth in the average number of paid international memberships. International streaming memberships account for 25% of total streaming memberships at the end of 2013. The $299.2 million increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $272.0 million increase in content licensing expenses. This increase was primarily attributable to continued investments in existing and new streaming content including content to support the launch of our service in the Nordics (launched in the fourth quarter of 2012) and the Netherlands (launched in the third quarter of 2013). Other costs increased $27.2 million due to increases in our content delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base. International marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased $10.9 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 due to our expansion in the Nordics and the Netherlands offset partially by a decrease in spending in other territories. International contribution losses improved $114.8 million year over year, as a result of growing memberships and revenues faster than content and marketing spending. Our International streaming segment does not benefit from the established member base that exists for the Domestic segments. As a result of having to build a member base from zero, investments in streaming content and marketing programs for our International segment are larger initially relative to revenues, in particular as new territories are launched. The contribution losses for our International segment have been significant due to investments in streaming content and marketing programs to drive membership growth and viewing in our international markets. 20 Table of Contents Domestic DVD Segment As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Members: Net losses (1,294 ) (2,941 ) (56 )% Members at end of period 6,930 8,224 (16 )% Paid members at end of period 6,765 8,049 (16 )% Contribution profit: Revenues $ 910,797 $ 1,136,872 (20 )% Cost of revenues 459,349 591,432 (22 )% Marketing 12,466 7,290 71 % Contribution profit 438,982 538,150 (18 )% Contribution margin 48 % 47 % In the Domestic DVD segment, we derive revenues from our DVD-by-mail membership services. The price per plan for DVD-by-mail varies from $4.99 to $43.99 per month according to the plan chosen by the member. DVD-by-mail plans differ by the number of DVDs that a member may have out at any given point. Members electing access to high definition Blu-ray discs in addition to standard definition DVDs pay a surcharge ranging from $2 to $4 per month for our most popular plans. The $226.1 million decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 20% decrease in the average number of paid memberships. The $132.1 million decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $63.2 million decrease in content acquisition expenses and a $47.7 million decrease in content delivery expenses resulting from a 21% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to paying members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD memberships. Other costs, primarily those associated with content processing and customer service center expenses, decreased $21.2 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments. Our Domestic DVD segment had a contribution margin of 48% for the year ended December 31, 2013, and was relatively flat as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. 21 Table of Contents 2012 Segment Results Domestic Segments As of /Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) Members: Domestic Streaming Members at end of period 27,146 21,671 25 % Paid members at end of period 25,471 20,153 26 % Domestic DVD Members at end of period 8,224 11,165 (26 )% Paid members at end of period 8,049 11,039 (27 )% Unique Domestic Net additions 4,973 4,894 2 % Members at end of period 29,368 24,395 20 % Paid members at end of period 27,613 22,858 21 % Contribution Profit: Revenues $ 3,321,740 $ 3,121,727 6 % Cost of revenues 2,150,296 1,932,419 11 % Marketing 264,285 302,752 (13 )% Contribution profit 907,159 886,556 2 % Contribution margin 27 % 28 % Prior to July 2011, in the U.S., our streaming and DVDs-by-mail operations were combined and members could receive both streaming content and DVDs under a single hybrid plan. In July 2011, we introduced DVD only plans and separated the combined plans, making it necessary for members who wish to receive both streaming services and DVDs-by-mail to have two separate membership plans. As members were able to receive both streaming and DVDs-by-mail under a single hybrid plan prior to the fourth quarter of 2011, it is impracticable to allocate revenues and expenses to the Domestic streaming and Domestic DVD segments prior to the fourth quarter of 2011. The $200.0 million increase in our domestic revenues in 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily due to the 15% growth in the domestic average number of unique paying members driven by new streaming memberships. This increase was offset in part by an 8% decline in domestic average monthly revenue per unique paying member, resulting from the decline in DVD memberships. The $217.9 million increase in domestic cost of revenues in 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily due to a $397.7 million increase in content licensing expenses. This increase was primarily attributable to continued investments in existing and new streaming content. Content delivery expenses decreased by $162.0 million primarily due to a 41% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to paying members driven by a decline in the number of DVD memberships. Other costs associated with content processing and customer service center expenses decreased by $13.9 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the declines in DVD shipments, offset partially by increases in customer service center expenses to support our growth in domestic memberships. Marketing expenses decreased $38.5 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to a decrease in marketing program spending in television, radio and direct mail advertising partially offset by increases in online advertising. The Domestic segment had a contribution margin of 27% for the year ended December 31, 2012, and is relatively flat as compared to December 31, 2011. 22 Table of Contents International Streaming Segment As of /Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) Members: Net additions 4,263 1,349 216 % Members at end of period 6,121 1,858 229 % Paid members at end of period 4,892 1,447 238 % Contribution profit: Revenues $ 287,542 $ 82,850 247 % Cost of revenues 475,570 107,482 342 % Marketing 201,115 78,517 156 % Contribution loss (389,143 ) (103,149 ) 277 % The $204.7 million increase in our international revenues in 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily due to the 260% growth in the international average number of unique paying members driven by a full year of service offering in Latin America as well as our launches in the U.K. and Ireland and Nordic regions. International streaming memberships account for 18% of total streaming memberships at the end of 2012. International cost of revenues increased by $368.1 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to a $347.5 million increase in content licensing costs resulting from the continued investments in streaming content available for viewing in Canada and Latin America and to support our launches in the U.K. and Ireland and Nordic regions. International marketing expenses increased $122.6 million in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily due to increases in marketing program spending online and in television and radio advertising to support our launches in the U.K. and Ireland and Nordic regions. Consolidated Operating Expenses Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related costs incurred in making improvements to our service offerings, including testing, maintaining and modifying our user interface, our recommendation, merchandising and content delivery technology, as well as our telecommunications systems and infrastructures. Technology and development expenses also include costs associated with computer hardware and software. Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 378,769 $ 329,008 15 % As a percentage of revenues 9 % 9 % The $49.8 million increase in technology and development expenses was primarily the result of a $42.8 million increase in personnel-related costs. These increases are primarily due to increases in employee compensation as well as an 8% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and international expansion. Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 329,008 $ 259,033 27 % As a percentage of revenues 9 % 8 % The $70.0 million increase in technology and development expenses was primarily the result of a $63.4 million increase in personnel-related costs, including a $12.7 million increase in stock-based compensation. These increases are primarily due to a 35% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and international expansion. 23 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for corporate personnel, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. General and administrative expenses also include the gain on disposal of DVDs. Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 180,301 $ 139,016 30 % As a percentage of revenues 4 % 4 % General and administrative expenses increased $41.3 million primarily due to a $22.0 million increase in personnel related costs resulting from a 31% increase in average headcount to support our growth. In addition, expenses related to the use of outside and professional services, taxes and insurance increased $8.9 million. The increase in expenses was further impacted by an $8.0 million decrease in the gain on the disposal of DVDs. Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 139,016 $ 148,306 (6 )% As a percentage of revenues 4 % 5 % The $9.3 million decrease in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $9.0 million expense in 2011 related to the settlement of a legal claim related to our compliance with the Video Privacy Protection Act, a $5.8 million increase in the gain on sale of previously viewed DVDs, and an $8.6 million decrease in miscellaneous expenses related to the use of outside and professional services, taxes, insurance costs and to costs associated with various legal claims against us. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in personnel-related costs of $14.1 million attributed to an 8% increase in average headcount. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of the interest associated with outstanding long-term debt obligations, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, as well as interest on our lease financing obligations. Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (29,142 ) $ (19,986 ) 46 % As a percentage of revenues 1 % 1 % Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 consists primarily of $26.1 million of interest on our notes. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared the year ended December 31, 2012 is due to the higher aggregate principal of interest bearing notes outstanding, partially offset by the lower interest rate. Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (19,986 ) $ (20,025 ) % As a percentage of revenues 1 % 1 % Interest expense was relatively flat as compared to the prior year. Interest expense in 2012 consists primarily of $17.0 million of interest due on our 8.50% Notes. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Interest and other income (expense) consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency denominated balances. 24 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other income (expense) $ (3,002 ) $ 474 (733 )% As a percentage of revenues NM NM Interest and other income (expense) decreased due to increased foreign exchange losses on foreign currency denominated balances. The foreign exchange losses were $8.4 million and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other income (expense) $ 474 $ 3,479 (86 )% As a percentage of revenues NM NM Interest and other income (expense) decreased due to increased foreign exchange losses on foreign currency denominated balances. The foreign exchange loss was $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and were immaterial for the year ended December 31, 2011. Extinguishment of Debt In connection with the redemption of the outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 8.50% Notes, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $25.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2013, which consisted of expenses associated with the redemption, including a $19.4 million premium payment pursuant to the make-whole provision in the indenture governing the 8.50% Notes. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2013 2012 2013 vs. 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 58,671 $ 13,328 340 % Effective tax rate 34 % 44 % In 2013, the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate of 35% was $1.2 million primarily due to the Federal and California research and development ("R&D") credits partially offset by state income taxes and nondeductible expenses. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 was primarily attributable to the retroactive reinstatement of the 2012 Federal R&D credit in January 2013. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (H.R. 8) was signed into law which retroactively extended the Federal R&D credit from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2013. As a result, we recognized the retroactive benefit of the 2012 Federal R&D credit of approximately $3.1 million as a discrete item in the first quarter of 2013, the period in which the legislation was enacted. Year Ended December 31, Change 2012 2011 2012 vs. 2011 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 13,328 $ 133,396 (90 )% Effective tax rate 44 % 37 % In 2012, the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate of 35% was $2.7 million primarily due to state income taxes and nondeductible expenses partially offset by the California R&D credit. The increase in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily attributable to the expiration of the Federal R&D credit on December 31, 2011. 25 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $1,200.4 million and $748.1 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In February 2013, we issued $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "5.375% Notes"). We used approximately $224.5 million of the net proceeds to redeem our outstanding 8.50% Notes, including a $19.4 million make-whole premium and $5.1 million of accrued and unpaid interest. In November 2011, we issued $200.0 million of Senior Convertible Notes and raised an additional $200.0 million through a public offering of common stock. The Senior Convertible Notes consisted of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount due on December 1, 2018 and did not bear interest. In April 2013, we exercised our option to cause the conversion of the Convertible Notes into shares of our common stock. See Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. Our primary uses of cash include licensing of content, content delivery, marketing programs and payroll. We expect to continue to make significant investments to license streaming content both domestically and internationally and will continue to expand our investments in original content. In 2014, we expect to substantially increase our investment in original content (though still representing less than 10% of our overall global content expense). Original content or content that is licensed in an earlier window through an output arrangement will typically, depending upon the terms, require more up-front cash payments relative to the expense and, therefore, future investments could impact our liquidity and result in a use of operating cash. We expect to significantly increase our investments in international expansion, including substantial expansion in Europe in 2014, and in original content. As a result, and to take advantage of the current favorable interest rate environment, we plan to obtain approximately $400 million in long term debt in the first quarter of 2014. Our ability to obtain this, or any additional financing that we may choose to or need to obtain, will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. As of December 31, 2013, $55.8 million of cash and cash equivalents were held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on the amount associated with undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries. See Note 10 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. On June 11, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program allowing us to repurchase $300.0 million of our common stock through the end of 2012. Under this plan, we repurchased $259.0 million. At December 31, 2012, this authorization expired and the remaining $41.0 million was not used. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash provided by operating and investing activities excluding the non-operational cash flows from purchases, maturities and sales of short-term investments. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity metric because it measures, during a given period, the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, make investments and for certain other activities. Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net income, operating income, cash flow provided by operating activities, or any other measure of financial performance or liquidity presented in accordance with GAAP. In assessing liquidity in relation to our results of operations, we compare free cash flow to net income, noting that the three major recurring differences are excess content payments over expenses, non-cash stock-based compensation expense and other working capital differences which include deferred revenue, taxes and semi-annual interest payments on outstanding debt. Our receivables from members settle quickly and deferred revenue is a source of cash flow. For streaming content, we typically enter into multi-year licenses with various content providers that may result in an increase in content library and a corresponding increase in liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The payment terms for these license fees may extend over the term of the license agreements, which typically range from six months to five years. 26 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 97,831 $ 21,586 Net cash used in investing activities (255,968 ) (244,740 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 476,264 5,589 Non-GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities 97,831 21,586 Acquisition of DVD content library (65,927 ) (48,275 ) Purchases of property and equipment (54,143 ) (40,278 ) Other assets 5,939 8,816 Non-GAAP free cash flow $ (16,300 ) $ (58,151 ) Cash provided by operating activities increased $76.2 million, primarily due to an increase in revenues of $765.3 million or 21%. This increase was partially offset by increased payments for content acquisition and licensing other than DVD library of $502.6 million or 24% as well as increased payments associated with higher operating expenses. Operating activities were further impacted by increased payments for streaming content delivery, payment processing fees and customer service call centers due to our growing member base. Cash used in investing activities increased $11.2 million, primarily due to an increase of $17.7 million in the acquisition of DVD content library and a $13.9 million increase in the purchase of property and equipment primarily due to investments in our streaming content delivery network. Cash outflow was offset by a $23.2 million increase in the proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases. Cash provided by financing activities increased $470.7 million. In the first quarter of 2013, we issued $500.0 million of 5.375% Notes, with net proceeds of $490.6 million after payment of debt issuance costs. This was offset by the $219.4 million redemption of our 8.50% Senior Notes. Financing activities were further impacted by $197.6 million of increased cash flows provided by stock option exercises. Free cash flow was $128.7 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to $230.4 million of content cash payments over expense, $29.4 million of tax impacts and $13.4 million non-favorable other working capital differences. This was partially offset by $73.1 million non-cash stock-based compensation expense, $46.3 million in deferred revenue and $25.1 million loss on debt extinguishment, the cash impact of which is a financing activity and therefore not included in free cash flow. Free cash flow was $75.3 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to $145.2 million of content cash payments over expense and $4.0 million non-favorable other working capital differences partially offset by $73.9 million non-cash stock-based compensation expense. Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 21,586 $ 317,712 Net cash used in investing activities (244,740 ) (265,814 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 5,589 261,656 Non-GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash provided by operating activities 21,586 317,712 Acquisition of DVD content library (48,275 ) (85,154 ) Purchases of property and equipment (40,278 ) (49,682 ) Other assets 8,816 3,674 Non-GAAP free cash flow $ (58,151 ) $ 186,550 Cash provided by operating activities decreased $296.1 million, primarily due to increased payments for content acquisition and licensing other than DVD library of $779.5 million or 59%, partially offset by an increase in subscription revenues of $404.7 million or 13%. 27 Table of Contents Cash used in investing activities decreased $21.1 million primarily due a $36.9 million decrease in the acquisition of DVD content library and a $9.4 million decrease in the purchase of property and equipment due to a decrease in purchases of automation equipment for our various shipping centers. These decreases were partially offset by a $30.4 million increase in the purchases, net of proceeds from sales and maturities, of short-term investments. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $5.6 million primarily related to stock option activity. Cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $261.7 million, which consisted primarily of $199.9 million of proceeds from the public offering of common stock and $198.1 million of proceeds from the issuance of debt. These proceeds were offset by $199.7 million of stock repurchases. Free cash flow was $39.6 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to $147.7 million of content cash payments over expense partially offset by $61.6 million non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $46.5 million favorable other working capital differences. Contractual Obligations For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2013. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2013: Payments due by Period Contractual obligations (in thousands): Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Streaming content obligations (1) $ 7,252,161 $ 2,972,325 $ 3,266,907 $ 929,645 $ 83,284 5.375% Notes (2) 699,323 26,875 53,750 53,750 564,948 Lease obligations (3) 201,422 25,101 52,710 37,432 86,179 Other purchase obligations (4) 214,838 113,134 101,704 Total $ 8,367,744 $ 3,137,435 $ 3,475,071 $ 1,020,827 $ 734,411 (1) At December 31, 2013, the Company had $7.3 billion of obligations comprised of $1.8 billion included in "Current content liabilities" and $1.3 billion of "Non-current content liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $4.2 billion of obligations that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2012, the Company had $5.6 billion of obligations comprised of $1.3 billion included in "Current content liabilities" and $1.1 billion of "Non-current content liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $3.2 billion of obligations that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. A streaming content obligation is incurred at the time we sign a license agreement to obtain future titles. Once a title becomes available, a content liability is generally recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Certain agreements include the obligation to license rights for unknown future titles, the ultimate quantity and / or fees for which are not yet determinable as of the reporting date. Because the amount is not reasonably estimable, we do not include any estimated obligation for these future titles beyond the known minimum amount. However, the unknown obligations are expected to be significant and the expected timing of payments could range primarily from one year to more than five years. (2) Long-term debt obligations include our 5.375% Notes consisting of principal and interest payments. See Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further details. (3) Lease obligations include lease financing obligations of $12.1 million related to our current Los Gatos, California headquarters for which we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes, commitments of $68.1 million for facilities under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through 2019, and commitments of $121.2 million for facilities lease agreements entered into in the third quarter of 2013 to expand our Los Gatos headquarters to a nearby site. At the time we entered into these lease agreements we simultaneously terminated the previous agreement signed in the fourth quarter of 2012. The 124 month lease terms for the new leases will commence after the construction of the buildings is complete. 28 Table of Contents (4) Other purchase obligations include all other non-cancelable contractual obligations. These contracts are primarily related to streaming content delivery, DVD content acquisition, and miscellaneous open purchase orders for which we have not received the related services or goods. As of December 31, 2013, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $68.2 million and an additional $3.9 million for gross interest and penalties classified as Other non-current liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. At this time, we are not able to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes; therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not engage into any transactions with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to us. Indemnifications The information set forth under Note 7 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under the caption GuaranteesIndemnification Obligations is incorporated herein by reference. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Streaming Content We license rights to stream TV shows, movies, and original content to members for unlimited viewing. These licenses are for a fixed fee and specify license windows that generally range from six months to five years. Payment terms may extend over the license window, or may require more up-front payments as is typically the case for original content or content that is licensed in an earlier window through an output arrangement. We capitalize the fee per title and record a corresponding liability at the gross amount of liabilities when the license period begins, the cost of the title is known and the title is accepted and available for streaming. The portion available for streaming within one year is recognized as Current content library and the remaining portion as Non-current content library on the Consolidated Balance sheets. The acquisition of streaming content licenses rights and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within cash used in operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. We amortize the content library in Cost of revenues on a straight line or on an accelerated basis, as appropriate: For content that does not premiere on the Netflix service (representing the vast majority of content), we amortize on a straight-line basis over the shorter of each title's contractual window of availability or estimated period of use, beginning with the month of first availability. The amortization period typically ranges from six months to five years. For content that premieres on the Netflix service, we expect more upfront viewing due to the additional merchandising and marketing efforts for this original content available only on Netflix. Hence, we amortize on an accelerated basis over the amortization period, which is the shorter of four years or the license period, beginning with the month of first availability. If a subsequent season is added, the amortization period is extended by a year. If the cost per title cannot be reasonably estimated, the license fee is not capitalized and costs are expensed on a straight line basis over the license period. This typically occurs when the license agreement does not specify the number of titles, the license fee per title or the windows of availability per title. 29 Table of Contents Amortization of the content library is determined based on our historical and estimated viewing patterns and requires considerable management judgment. When we started with original content, we did not have specific data about viewing patterns over time for content that premieres on Netflix. Based on our experience with other similar television series and our initial estimates of viewing patterns, we amortized content that exclusively premiered on our service on a straight-line basis over the shorter of four years or the license period. If a subsequent season is added, we extend the remaining amortization period by a year. Current estimates of viewing patterns indicate that viewing in the first few months is significantly higher, relative to the rest of the amortization period, than previously estimated. As a result, in the third quarter of 2013, we began amortizing this type of content on an accelerated basis over the amortization period. The effect of this change in estimate was a decrease in operating income and net income of $25.0 million and $15.4 million, respectively for the year ended December 31, 2013. Any other changes in management's estimates could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. The content library is stated at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value. Streaming content licenses (whether capitalized or not) are reviewed in aggregate at the geographic region level for impairment when an event or change in circumstances indicates a change in the expected usefulness of the content. The level of geographic aggregation is determined based on the streaming content rights which are generally specific to a geographic region inclusive of several countries (such as Latin America). No material write down from unamortized cost to a lower net realizable value was recorded in any of the periods presented. We have entered into certain licenses with performing rights organizations ("PROs"), and are currently involved in negotiations with other PROs, that hold certain rights to music and other entertainment works "publicly performed" in connection with streaming content into various territories. Accruals for estimated royalties are recorded and then adjusted based on any changes in estimates. These amounts are included in the streaming content obligations. The results of these negotiations are uncertain and may be materially different from management's estimates. Income Taxes We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which future realization is uncertain. Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, and our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Actual operating results in future years could differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. However, we believe that it is more likely than not that substantially all deferred tax assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. We did not recognize certain tax benefits from uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes. We may recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2013 , our estimated gross unrecognized tax benefits were $68.2 million of which $57.0 million, if recognized, would favorably impact our future earnings. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, our estimates of the ultimate settlement of our unrecognized tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. See Note 10 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information regarding income taxes. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense at the grant date is based on the total number of options granted and an estimate of the fair value of the awards expected to vest and is recognized as expense ratably over the requisite service period, which is the vesting period. 30 Table of Contents We calculate the fair value of new stock-based compensation awards under our stock option plans using a lattice-binomial model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including price volatility of the underlying stock. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted and our results of operations could be impacted. Expected Volatility: Our computation of expected volatility is based on a blend of historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatility of tradable forward call options to purchase shares of our common stock. Our decision to incorporate implied volatility was based on our assessment that implied volatility of publicly traded options in our common stock is more reflective of market conditions and, therefore, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of our common stock. We include the historical volatility in our computation due to low trade volume of our tradable forward call options in certain periods thereby precluding sole reliance on implied volatility. An increase of 10% in our computation of expected volatility would increase the total stock-based compensation expense by approximately $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Suboptimal Exercise Factor: Our computation of the suboptimal exercise factor is based on historical option exercise behavior and the terms and vesting periods of the options granted and is determined for both executives and non-executives. An increase in the suboptimal exercise factor of 10% would increase the total stock-based compensation expense by approximately $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 .