Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 6, Commitments and Contingencies in Item 8 . Given the multiple-year duration and largely fixed cost nature of content commitments, if membership acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be 3 Table of Contents adversely impacted. Payment terms for certain content commitments, such as programming that is initially available in the applicable territory on our service (original programming), will typically require more up-front cash payments than other licensing agreements. To the extent membership and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. In addition, the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate. As we have expanded internationally, we have licensed content in advance of entering into a new geographical market. If we license content that is not favorably received by consumers in the applicable territory, or is unable to be shown in the applicable territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted and given the long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offering quickly and our results of operation may be adversely impacted. We are devoting more resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of original programming, including TV series and movies. We believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain members. To the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations may be adversely impacted. If we are not able to manage change and growth, our business could be adversely affected. We are expanding our operations internationally, scaling our streaming service to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both members and features related to our service, ramping up our ability to produce original content, as well as continuing to operate our DVD service within the U.S. As we expand internationally, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, in particular those dealing with e-commerce and Internet video, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. As we scale our streaming service, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing services. As we ramp up our original content production, we are building out expertise in a number of disciplines, including creative, marketing, legal, finance and other resources related to the development and physical production of content. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our streaming operations and original content, our business may be adversely affected. We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the U.S. In addition to the risks that we face in the U.S., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest and economic instability; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; less favorable foreign intellectual property laws; adverse tax consequences such as those related to repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions into the United States, non-income related taxes such as value-added tax or other indirect taxes, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or the application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities given intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which we do not use foreign exchange contracts or derivatives to hedge against and which could impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk; 4 Table of Contents profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; new and different sources of competition; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit popular content, leading to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of Internet- connected consumer electronic devices; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; and differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and our overall business, and results of our operations. If we fail to maintain or, in new markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service, including the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain members, and our operating results may be adversely affected. We believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining members who have a number of choices from which to obtain entertainment video. To the extent our content, in particular, our original programming, is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. Furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. As we expand into new markets, we will also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these new markets may be adversely impacted. Changes in how we market our service could adversely affect our marketing expenses and membership levels may be adversely affected. We utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter, to promote our service to potential new members. We may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that members or potential members deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new members may be adversely affected. If companies that promote our service decide that we negatively impact their business, that they want to compete more directly with our business or enter a similar business or decide to exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to such marketing channels. We also acquire a number of members who rejoin our service having previously cancelled their membership. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of members with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing sources increases, our member levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected We face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. As a distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. We also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials and features on our Web site such as member reviews. As we expand our original programming, we have become responsible for production costs and other expenses, such as ongoing guild payments. We also take on risks associated with production, such as completion and key talent risk. To the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. We may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. 5 Table of Contents If studios, content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide our members with content they can watch depends on studios, content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute. The license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary. If the studios, content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to stream content to our members will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. Many of the licenses for content provide for the studios or other content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly. Because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. As competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. As we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. We are also focused on programming an overall mix of content that delights our members in a cost efficient manner. Within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our membership acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. Music contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. In this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations (CMOs) that hold certain rights to music interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. If we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. Additionally, pending and ongoing litigation as well as negotiations between certain CMOs and other third parties in various territories could adversely impact our negotiations with CMOs, or result in music publishers represented by certain CMOs unilaterally withdrawing rights, and thereby adversely impact our ability to reach licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. Failure to reach such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. We rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their devices. We currently offer members the ability to receive streaming content through a host of Internet-connected screens, including TVs, digital video players, television set-top boxes and mobile devices. We have agreements with various cable, satellite and telecommunications operators to make our service available through the television set-top boxes of these service providers. We intend to continue to broaden our capability to instantly stream TV shows and movies to other platforms and partners over time. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our members via these devices, our ability to grow our business could be adversely impacted. Our agreements with our device partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. Furthermore, devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than Netflix and while these entities should be responsible for the devices' performance, the connection between these devices and Netflix may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward Netflix and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our members' use and enjoyment could be negatively impacted. Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized disclosure of data, including member and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our members is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. These systems may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, and cybersecurity risks. Interruptions in these systems, or with the Internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content or fulfill DVD selections. Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems used in our operations could diminish the overall attractiveness of our membership service to existing and potential members. Our computer systems and those of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks such as computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. These systems periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data. Any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including member and corporate 6 Table of Contents information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy and damage our reputation. We have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. To date hackers have not had a material impact on our service or systems however this is no assurance that hackers may not be successful in the future. Our insurance does not cover expenses related to such disruptions or unauthorized access. Efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. Any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of memberships and adversely affect our business and results of operation. We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in that of a third-party Web hosting provider. In addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. We also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream TV shows and movies in high volume to Netflix members over the Internet. Problems faced by us or our third-party Web hosting, "cloud" computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our members. We rely upon Amazon Web Services to operate certain aspects of our service and any disruption of or interference with our use of the Amazon Web Services operation would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. Amazon Web Services ("AWS") provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a "cloud" computing service. We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS. Currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on AWS. Given this, along with the fact that we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely impacted. While the retail side of Amazon competes with us, we do not believe that Amazon will use the AWS operation in such a manner as to gain competitive advantage against our service. If the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operation could be adversely impacted. We utilize a combination of proprietary and third party technology to operate our business. This includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and merchandise content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our members and their various consumer electronic devices. For example, we have built and deployed our own content-delivery network (CDN). To the extent Internet Service Providers ("ISPs") do not interconnect with our CDN, or if we experience difficulties in its operation, our ability to efficiently and effectively deliver our streaming content to our members could be adversely impacted and our business and results of operation could be adversely affected. Likewise, if our recommendation and merchandising technology does not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our members will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain members may be adversely affected. We also utilize third party technology to help market our service, process payments, and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. If our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, our ability to operate our service, retain existing members and add new members may be impaired. Also, any harm to our members' personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If government regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business, or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the Internet, including laws impacting net neutrality, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. The failure to adopt laws protecting strong net neutrality could also increase the cost of doing business. In the United States, on February 16, 2015, the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") adopted net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks and to prevent ISP abuses at interconnection points. The FCC's authority to adopt these rules is currently under review by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of 7 Table of Contents Columbia. To the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, or if the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia invalidates the rules, our business could be adversely impacted. Regulators outside the United States, including the European Union, have adopted or may adopt Network Neutrality rules. It is also possible that network neutrality rules may be nascent or non-existent in the global markets in which we operate. Within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the Internet. If network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. To the extent that network operators implement usage based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our membership acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of Internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from being available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the Internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. As such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. While we believe that consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition will help check these incentives, to the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. In some international markets, these same incentives apply however, the consumer demand, regulatory oversight and competition may not be as strong as in our domestic market. Privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our membership data and disclosure of membership data could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our members, we collect and utilize data supplied by our members. We currently face certain legal obligations regarding the manner in which we treat such information. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the Internet regarding users' browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including self-regulation or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect and use data, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we were to disclose data about our members in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims that could impact our operating results. As our business evolves and as we expand internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. Failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. For instance, in October 2015, the European Court of Justice overturned the E.U./U.S. Safe Harbor Program, under which companies were able to transfer personal data from the E.U. to the U.S. in a legally compliant manner. If other legally compliant forms of data transfer are similarly invalidated by courts or other authorities in the E.U., we may need to alter our business practices, and which may adversely affect our business. Our reputation and relationships with members would be harmed if our membership data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. We maintain personal data regarding our members, including names and billing data. This data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. With respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to secure such information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. Despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third party services we use such as AWS, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our members' data. In the event of such a breach, current and potential members may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become members. Additionally, we could face legal claims for such a breach. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, and we currently do not carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. For these reasons, should an unauthorized intrusion into our members data occur, our business could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We are subject to payment processing risk. Our members pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. We rely on internal systems as well as those of third parties to process payment. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules and regulations and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operation could be adversely impacted. In addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative consumer perceptions of our service. If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws, to protect our proprietary rights. We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings. We have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark and patent applications. Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights, patents or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to members and potential members may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract members may be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including Netflix.com. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our Web site and our service. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology, title selection processes and marketing activities. Trademark, copyright, patent and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content on our Web site. We use the intellectual property of third parties in merchandising our products and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. From time to time, third parties allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the Internet. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, results in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. It also may result in our inability to use our current Web site, streaming technology, our recommendation and merchandising technology or inability to market our service or merchandise our products. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our merchandising or marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. We are engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters against us. These matters have included patent infringements as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. 9 Table of Contents We may seek additional capital that may result in stockholder dilution or that may have rights senior to those of our common stockholders. From time to time, we may seek to obtain additional capital, either through equity, equity-linked or debt securities. The decision to obtain additional capital will depend on, among other things, our business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. We have debt outstanding and may incur additional debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. As of December 31, 2015, we had $2,400 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes outstanding. Risks relating to our long-term indebtedness include: requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at rates or on other terms we find acceptable. It is possible that we may incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees. We rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder Reed Hastings, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly-skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. If memberships to our Domestic DVD segment decline faster than anticipated, our business could be adversely affected. The number of memberships to our DVD-by-mail offering is declining, and we anticipate that this decline will continue. We believe, however, that the domestic DVD business will continue to generate significant contribution profit for our business. The contribution profit generated by our domestic DVD business will help provide capital resources to fund our growth internationally. To the extent that the rate of decline in our DVD-by-mail business is greater than we anticipate, our business could be adversely affected. We do not anticipate increasing resources to our DVD operations and the technology used in its operations will not be meaningfully improved. To the extent that we experience service interruptions or other degradations in our DVD-by-mail service, members' satisfaction could be negatively impacted and we could experience an increase in DVD-by-mail member cancellations, which could adversely impact our business. Changes in U.S. Postal rates or operations could adversely impact our operating results and member satisfaction. We rely exclusively on the U.S. Postal Service to deliver DVDs from our shipping centers and to return DVDs to us from our members. Increases in postage delivery rates, including those resulting from changes to policies on the requirements of first class mail such as size, weight or machinability, could adversely affect our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit. If the U.S. Postal Service were to implement other changes to improve its financial position, such as closing mail processing facilities or service reductions, such changes could lead to a decrease in customer satisfaction and our Domestic DVD segment's contribution profit could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Stock Ownership Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Our charter documents may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable because they: authorize our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock; provide for a classified board of directors; prohibit our stockholders from acting by written consent; establish advance notice requirements for proposing matters to be approved by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. In addition, a merger or acquisition may trigger retention payments to certain executive employees under the terms of our Amended and Restated Executive Severance and Retention Incentive Plan, thereby increasing the cost of such a transaction. Our stock price is volatile. The price at which our common stock has traded has fluctuated significantly. The price may continue to be volatile due to a number of factors including the following, some of which are beyond our control: variations in our operating results, including our membership acquisition and retention, revenues, contribution profits, net income and free cash flow; variations between our actual operating results and the expectations of securities analysts, investors and the financial community; announcements of developments affecting our business, systems or expansion plans by us or others; competition, including the introduction of new competitors, their pricing strategies and services; market volatility in general; the level of demand for our stock, including the amount of short interest in our stock; and the operating results of our competitors. As a result of these and other factors, investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above their original purchase price. Following certain periods of volatility in the market price of our securities, we became the subject of securities litigation. We may experience more such litigation following future periods of volatility. This type of litigation may result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources. Financial forecasting may differ materially from actual results. Given the dynamic nature of our business, and the inherent limitations in predicting the future, forecasts of our revenues, contribution margins, net income and number of total and paid membership additions and other financial and operating data may differ materially from actual results. Such discrepancies could cause a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located in Los Gatos, California and consist of leased space aggregating approximately 370,000 square feet. In the third quarter of 2015, the Company entered into additional lease agreements to expand its Los Gatos, California headquarters by approximately 260,000 square feet with a lease term of 10 years commencing after construction of the facilities, which is expected in late 2016. In the United States, we lease other offices in various locations, including Beverly Hills, California for content acquisition, marketing and general and administrative operations and Fremont, California for our DVD operations. In the third quarter of 2015, the Company entered into an agreement to lease approximately 200,000 square feet in Los Angeles, California, with a lease term of 10 years commencing after the construction of the facility, which is expected to be in 2017. We also lease office space in other countries to support international streaming operations. We believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet current requirements, and that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate any further physical expansion of operations and for any additional offices. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Information with respect to this item may be found in Note 6 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , under the caption "Legal Proceedings" which information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 12 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol NFLX. The following table sets forth the intraday high and low sales prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The per share amounts are adjusted for our seven-for-one stock split that occurred in July 2015. Further information on the stock split can be found in Note 8 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 2015 2014 High Low High Low First quarter $ 69.50 $ 45.26 $ 65.43 $ 45.58 Second quarter 100.89 58.46 64.40 42.79 Third quarter 129.29 85.50 69.90 58.93 Fourth quarter 133.27 96.26 66.86 45.08 Holders As of January 27, 2016, there were approximately 237 stockholders of record of our common stock, although there is a significantly larger number of beneficial owners of our common stock. Dividends We have not declared or paid any cash dividends, and we have no present intention of paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 13 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph Notwithstanding any statement to the contrary in any of our previous or future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following information relating to the price performance of our common stock shall not be deemed filed with the Commission or soliciting material under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be incorporated by reference into any such filings. The following graph compares, for the five year period ended December 31, 2015, the total cumulative stockholder return on the Companys common stock, as adjusted for the Stock Split, with the total cumulative return of the NASDAQ Composite Index, the S&P 500 Index and the S&P North American Technology Internet Index. The Company was added to the S&P 500 Index on December 18, 2010. Measurement points are the last trading day of each of the Companys fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2011, December 31, 2012, December 31, 2013, December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015. Total cumulative stockholder return assumes $100 invested at the beginning of the period in the Companys common stock, the stocks represented in the NASDAQ Composite Index, the stocks represented in the S&P 500 Index and the stocks represented in the S&P North American Technology Internet Index, respectively, and reinvestment of any dividends. The S&P North American Technology Internet Index is a modified-capitalization weighted index of stocks representing the Internet industry, including Internet content and access providers, Internet software and services companies and e-commerce companies. Historical stock price performance should not be relied upon as an indication of future stock price performance. 14 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . The following amounts related to earnings per share and shares outstanding have been adjusted for the Stock Split for all periods reported, see Note 8 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further detail on the Stock Split. Consolidated Statements of Operations: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands, except per share data) Revenues $ 6,779,511 $ 5,504,656 $ 4,374,562 $ 3,609,282 $ 3,204,577 Operating income 305,826 402,648 228,347 49,992 376,068 Net income 122,641 266,799 112,403 17,152 226,126 Earnings per share: Basic $ 0.29 $ 0.63 $ 0.28 $ 0.04 $ 0.61 Diluted $ 0.28 $ 0.62 $ 0.26 $ 0.04 $ 0.59 Weighted-average common shares outstanding: Basic 425,889 420,544 407,385 388,648 369,926 Diluted 436,456 431,894 425,327 412,327 380,585 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (749,439 ) $ 16,483 $ 97,831 $ 21,586 $ 317,712 Free cash flow (1) (920,557 ) (126,699 ) (16,300 ) (58,151 ) 186,550 (1) See Liquidity and Capital Resources for a definition of free cash flow and a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities. Consolidated Balance Sheets: As of December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments $ 2,310,715 $ 1,608,496 $ 1,200,405 $ 748,078 $ 797,811 Total content assets, net (1) 7,218,815 4,939,460 3,838,364 2,934,099 2,022,650 Working capital (1) 1,902,216 1,263,899 883,049 553,887 595,780 Total assets (1) 10,202,871 7,042,500 5,404,025 3,961,781 3,062,111 Long-term debt (1) 2,371,362 885,849 491,462 195,782 195,123 Long-term debt due to related party (1) 198,109 197,792 Non-current content liabilities 2,026,360 1,575,832 1,345,590 1,076,622 739,628 Total content liabilities 4,815,383 3,693,073 3,121,573 2,443,469 1,674,664 Total stockholders equity 2,223,426 1,857,708 1,333,561 744,673 642,810 (1) Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation in the consolidated financial statements. See Note 1 and Note 2 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further detail. 15 Table of Contents Other Data: As of / Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net global streaming membership additions during period (1) 17,371 13,041 11,083 9,738 Global streaming memberships (1) 74,762 57,391 44,350 33,267 23,529 Prior to July 2011, in the U.S., our streaming and DVD-by-mail operations were combined and members could receive both streaming content and DVDs under a single hybrid plan. In July 2011, we separated the combined plans, making it necessary for members who wish to receive both DVDs-by-mail and streaming content to have two separate membership plans. Prior to these changes to our pricing and plan structure in 2011, we did not separately track streaming memberships. (1) A membership (also referred to as a subscription or a member) is defined as the right to receive the Netflix service following sign-up and a method of payment being provided. Memberships are assigned to territories based on the geographic location used at time of sign-up as determined by our internal systems, which utilize industry standard geo-location technology. We offer free-trial memberships to new and certain rejoining members. Total members include those who are on a free-trial as long as a method of payment has been provided. A membership is canceled and ceases to be reflected in the above metrics as of the effective cancellation date. Voluntary cancellations become effective at the end of the prepaid membership period, while involuntary cancellation of the service, as a result of a failed method of payment, becomes effective immediately except in limited circumstances where a short grace period is offered to ensure the streaming service is not interrupted for members who are impacted by payment processing delays by our banks or integrated payment partners. The number of members in a grace period at any given point is not material. 16 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Results of Operations The following represents our consolidated performance highlights: As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except revenue per membership and percentages) Global streaming memberships 74,762 57,391 44,350 30 % 29 % Global streaming average monthly revenue per paying membership $ 8.15 $ 8.20 $ 8.03 (1 )% 2 % Revenues $ 6,779,511 $ 5,504,656 $ 4,374,562 23 % 26 % Operating income $ 305,826 $ 402,648 $ 228,347 (24 )% 76 % Net income $ 122,641 $ 266,799 $ 112,403 (54 )% 137 % Consolidated revenues for 2015 and 2014 increased as compared to prior years due to growth in global streaming average paying memberships, the majority of which was growth in our international memberships reflecting our expansion and focus on Netflix as a global Internet TV network. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the impact from membership growth was slightly offset by a decrease in average monthly revenue per paying streaming membership resulting from unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations impacting our International streaming segment. This was partially offset by increases resulting from price changes and plan mix. The decrease in operating income for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 is due primarily to increased marketing and headcount costs to support our international expansion in addition to increased content expenses as we continue to acquire, license and produce content, including more Netflix originals. Net income is further impacted by the increase in interest expense associated with our debt issuance in the first quarter of 2015 as well as to an increase in losses on foreign currency denominated transactions. We offer three types of streaming membership plans. In the U.S. our basic plan is priced at $7.99 per month and includes access to standard definition quality streaming on a single screen at a time. Our most popular streaming plan is priced at $9.99 per month and includes access to high definition quality streaming on two screens concurrently. Our premium plan is priced at $11.99 per month and includes access to high definition and ultra-high definition quality content on four screens concurrently. Internationally, the membership plans are structured similarly to the U.S. and range in price from the U.S. dollar equivalent of approximately $5.00 to $18.00 per month. We expect that from time to time the prices of our membership plans in each country may change. For instance, in the second half of 2015, we increased the price of our two-screen high definition plan in the U.S. and several European countries. In May 2014, in the U.S., we increased the price of our high definition plan from $7.99 per month to $8.99 per month with existing memberships grandfathered for a two year period. In October 2015, in the U.S., we increased the price of this same high definition plan from $8.99 per month to $9.99 per month with existing memberships grandfathered for a one year period. In 2016, the grandfathered pricing period will expire for a substantial number of U.S. memberships and the members will have the option of electing the basic streaming plan at $7.99 or continuing on the high definition plan at the higher price of $9.99. The following represents the key elements to our segment results of operations: We define contribution profit (loss) as revenues less cost of revenues and marketing expenses incurred by the segment. We believe this is an important measure of our operating segment performance as it represents each segment's performance before global corporate costs. For the Domestic and International streaming segments, content expenses, which include the amortization of the streaming content assets and other expenses associated with the licensing and acquisition of streaming content, represent the vast majority of cost of revenues. Streaming content rights were generally obtained for our current geographic regions. As we expanded internationally, we obtained additional rights for the new geographies. With our global expansion, we now aspire to obtain global rights for our new content. We allocate this content between the Domestic and International segments based on estimated fair market value. Other cost of revenues such as streaming delivery expenses, customer service and payment processing fees, including those we pay to our integrated payment partners, tend to be lower as a percentage of total cost of revenues as compared to content licensing expenses. We have built our 17 Table of Contents own global content delivery network ("Open Connect") to help us efficiently stream a high volume of content to our members over the Internet. Streaming delivery expenses, therefore, also include equipment costs related to our content delivery network and all third-party costs, such as cloud computing costs, associated with delivering streaming content over the Internet. Cost of revenues in the Domestic DVD segment consist primarily of delivery expenses, content expenses, including amortization of DVD content assets and revenue sharing expenses, and other expenses associated with our DVD processing and customer service centers. Delivery expenses for the Domestic DVD segment consist of the postage costs to mail DVDs to and from our members and the packaging and label costs for the mailers. For the Domestic and International streaming segments, marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising expenses and payments made to our affiliates and device partners. Advertising expenses include promotional activities such as digital and television advertising. Payments to our affiliates and device partners include fixed fee and /or revenue sharing payments. Marketing expenses are incurred by our Domestic and International streaming segments given our focus on building consumer awareness of the streaming offerings and in particular our original content. Marketing expenses incurred by our International streaming segment have been significant and fluctuate dependent upon the number of international territories in which our streaming service is offered and the timing of the launch of new territories. We do not incur marketing expenses for the Domestic DVD segment. We have demonstrated our ability to grow domestic streaming contribution margin as evidenced by the increase in contribution margin from 17% in 2012 to 33% in 2015. As a result of our focus on growing the streaming segments, contribution margins for the Domestic and International streaming segments are lower than for our Domestic DVD segment. 18 Table of Contents Segment Results Domestic Streaming Segment As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except revenue per membership and percentages) Memberships: Net additions 5,624 5,694 6,274 (70 ) (1 )% (580 ) (9 )% Memberships at end of period 44,738 39,114 33,420 5,624 14 % 5,694 17 % Paid memberships at end of period 43,401 37,698 31,712 5,703 15 % 5,986 19 % Average monthly revenue per paying membership $ 8.50 $ 8.14 $ 7.97 $ 0.36 4 % $ 0.17 2 % Contribution profit: Revenues $ 4,180,339 $ 3,431,434 $ 2,751,375 $ 748,905 22 % $ 680,059 25 % Cost of revenues 2,487,193 2,201,761 1,863,376 285,432 13 % 338,385 18 % Marketing 317,646 293,453 265,232 24,193 8 % 28,221 11 % Contribution profit 1,375,500 936,220 622,767 439,280 47 % 313,453 50 % Contribution margin 33 % 27 % 23 % Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 In the Domestic streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members in the United States. Our two screen high definition plan continues to be the most popular plan choice for new memberships. The increase in our domestic streaming revenues was due to a 17% growth in the average number of paid memberships and a 4% increase in average monthly revenue per paying membership resulting from our price changes and plan mix. The increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to a $208.1 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. In addition, we had a $37.9 million increase in streaming delivery expenses and a $39.4 million increase in other costs, such as payment processing fees and customer service call centers, due to our growing member base. Domestic marketing expenses increased primarily due to an increase in advertising and public relations spending. Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 33% for the year ended December 31, 2015, which increased as compared to the contribution margin of 27% for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to growth in paid memberships and revenue, which continued to outpace content and marketing spending. Our 2020 domestic streaming contribution margin target remains at 40%. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The increase in our domestic streaming revenues was due to the 22% growth in the average number of paid memberships, as well as to the 2% increase in average monthly revenue per paying membership resulting from our price increase for new members in the second quarter of 2014 and introduction of the higher priced plan in 2013. The increase in domestic streaming cost of revenues was primarily due to the $242.3 million increase in content expenses relating to our existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. In addition, streaming delivery expenses increased by $59.5 million and other costs, such as payment processing fees and customer service call centers, increased $36.6 million due to our growing member base. Domestic marketing expenses increased primarily due to an increase in advertising and public relations spending. Our Domestic streaming segment had a contribution margin of 27% for the year ended December 31, 2014, which increased as compared to the contribution margin of 23% for the year ended December 31, 2013 due to growth in paid memberships and revenue, which continued to outpace content and marketing spending. 19 Table of Contents International Streaming Segment As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except revenue per membership and percentages) Memberships: Net additions 11,747 7,347 4,809 4,400 60 % 2,538 53 % Memberships at end of period 30,024 18,277 10,930 11,747 64 % 7,347 67 % Paid memberships at end of period 27,438 16,778 9,722 10,660 64 % 7,056 73 % Average monthly revenue per paying membership $ 7.48 $ 8.34 $ 8.26 $ (0.86 ) (10 )% $ 0.08 1 % Contribution loss: Revenues $ 1,953,435 $ 1,308,061 $ 712,390 $ 645,374 49 % $ 595,671 84 % Cost of revenues 1,780,375 1,154,117 782,304 626,258 54 % 371,813 48 % Marketing 506,446 313,733 204,418 192,713 61 % 109,315 53 % Contribution loss (333,386 ) (159,789 ) (274,332 ) (173,597 ) 109 % 114,543 (42 )% Contribution margin (17 )% (12 )% (39 )% In the International streaming segment, we derive revenues from monthly membership fees for services consisting solely of streaming content to our members outside the United States. We launched our streaming service in Canada in September 2010 and have continuously expanded our services internationally as shown below. In January 2016 we announced the availability of our streaming service virtually everywhere in the world, with the exception of The People's Republic of China and territories where U.S. companies are not allowed to operate. Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 The increase in our international revenues was due to the 66% growth in the average number of paid international memberships offset partially by a 10% decrease in average monthly revenue per paying membership. The decrease in average monthly revenue per paying membership was due to the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and to a lesser extent the impact of absorbing higher VAT rates across our European markets beginning January 1, 2015. These decreases were partially offset by our pricing changes and plan mix. We believe international revenues would have been approximately $331 million higher in 2015 if foreign exchange rates had remained consistent with those for the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $522.1 million increase in content expenses primarily relating to expenses for territories launched in the last eighteen months, coupled with existing and new streaming content, including more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $104.2 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base, partially offset by decreases resulting from exchange rate fluctuations. Average paid international streaming memberships accounted for 35% of total average paid streaming memberships as of December 31, 2015, as compared to 27% of total average paid streaming memberships as of December 31, 2014. 20 Table of Contents International marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 mainly due to expenses for territories launched in the last eighteen months. International contribution losses increased $173.6 million year over year due to our increased spending for our international expansion and the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The increase in our international revenues was primarily due to the 82% growth in the average number of paid international memberships as well as the 1% increase in average monthly revenue per paying member resulting from the price increase on our most popular streaming plan and the introduction of the premium plan, offset partially by the impact of exchange rate fluctuations. Average paid international streaming memberships accounted for 27% of total average paid streaming memberships as of December 31, 2014, as compared to 20% of total average paid streaming memberships as of December 31, 2013. The increase in international cost of revenues was primarily due to a $311.5 million increase in content expenses including content for our new markets as well as more exclusive and original programming. Other costs increased $60.3 million primarily due to increases in our streaming delivery expenses, costs associated with our customer service call centers and payment processing fees, all driven by our growing member base. International marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 increased as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 mainly due to expenses for territories launched during 2014. International contribution losses improved $114.5 million year over year, as a result of growing memberships and revenues faster than content and marketing spending. Domestic DVD Segment As of/ Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except revenue per membership and percentages) Memberships: Net losses (863 ) (1,163 ) (1,294 ) (300 ) (26 )% (131 ) (10 )% Memberships at end of period 4,904 5,767 6,930 (863 ) (15 )% (1,163 ) (17 )% Paid memberships at end of period 4,787 5,668 6,765 (881 ) (16 )% (1,097 ) (16 )% Average monthly revenue per paying membership $ 10.30 $ 10.29 $ 10.25 $ 0.01 % $ 0.04 % Contribution profit: Revenues $ 645,737 $ 765,161 $ 910,797 $ (119,424 ) (16 )% $ (145,636 ) (16 )% Cost of revenues 323,908 396,882 471,523 (72,974 ) (18 )% (74,641 ) (16 )% Marketing 292 % (292 ) (100 )% Contribution profit 321,829 368,279 438,982 (46,450 ) (13 )% (70,703 ) (16 )% Contribution margin 50 % 48 % 48 % Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 In the Domestic DVD segment, we derive revenues from our DVD-by-mail membership services. The price per plan for DVD-by-mail varies from $4.99 to $15.99 per month according to the plan chosen by the member. DVD-by-mail plans differ by the number of DVDs that a member may have out at any given point. Members electing access to high definition Blu-ray discs, in addition to standard definition DVDs, pay a surcharge ranging from $2 to $4 per month for our most popular plans. The decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 16% decrease in the average number of paid memberships. The decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $21.0 million decrease in content expenses and a $38.9 million decrease in delivery expenses resulting from a 21% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD memberships coupled with a decrease in usage by these members. Other costs, primarily those associated with processing and customer service expenses, decreased $13.1 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments. 21 Table of Contents Our Domestic DVD segment had a contribution margin of 50% for the year ended December 31, 2015, up from 48% for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to the decrease in DVD usage by paying members. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The decrease in our domestic DVD revenues was due to a 16% decrease in the average number of paid memberships. The decrease in domestic DVD cost of revenues was primarily due to a $16.0 million decrease in content expenses and a $43.0 million decrease in delivery expenses resulting from a 22% decrease in the number of DVDs mailed to members. The decrease in shipments was driven by a decline in the number of DVD memberships coupled with a decrease in usage by these members. Other costs, primarily those associated with processing and customer service expenses, decreased $15.6 million primarily due to a decrease in hub operation expenses resulting from the decline in DVD shipments. Our Domestic DVD segment had a contribution margin of 48% for the year ended December 31, 2014, and was relatively flat as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Consolidated Operating Expenses Technology and Development Technology and development expenses consist of payroll and related costs incurred in making improvements to our service offerings, including testing, maintaining and modifying our user interface, our recommendation, merchandising and streaming delivery technology and infrastructure. Technology and development expenses also include costs associated with computer hardware and software. Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Technology and development $ 650,788 $ 472,321 $ 378,769 $ 178,467 38 % $ 93,552 25 % As a percentage of revenues 10 % 9 % 9 % Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 The increase in technology and development expenses was primarily due to a $133.2 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in compensation for existing employees and a 20% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and our international expansion. In addition, third party expenses, including costs associated with cloud computing, increased $23.8 million. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The increase in technology and development expenses was primarily due to an $87.4 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from an increase in compensation for existing employees and a 12% growth in average headcount supporting continued improvements in our streaming service and our international expansion. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of payroll and related expenses for corporate personnel, as well as professional fees and other general corporate expenses. Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 407,329 $ 269,741 $ 180,301 $ 137,588 51 % $ 89,440 50 % As a percentage of revenues 6 % 5 % 4 % Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to a $120.1 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from a 51% increase in average headcount primarily to support our international expansion and increased production of original content, and an increase in compensation for existing employees. 22 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 General and administrative expenses increased primarily due to a $70.6 million increase in personnel-related costs, including stock-based compensation expense, resulting from a 37% increase in average headcount primarily to support our international expansion, and an increase in compensation for existing employees. In addition, there was an $11.6 million increase in legal costs for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013. Interest Expense Interest expense consists primarily of the interest associated with our outstanding long-term debt obligations, including the amortization of debt issuance costs, as well as interest on our lease financing obligations. Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (132,716 ) $ (50,219 ) $ (29,142 ) $ 82,497 164 % $ 21,077 72 % As a percentage of revenues 2 % 1 % 1 % Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 consists primarily of $127.1 million of interest on our notes. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 is due to the higher aggregate principal of interest bearing notes outstanding. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 consists primarily of $46.8 million of interest on our notes. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 is due to the higher aggregate principal of interest bearing notes outstanding. Interest and Other Income (Expense) Interest and other income (expense) consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments and foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency denominated balances. Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Interest and other income (expense) $ (31,225 ) $ (3,060 ) $ (3,002 ) $ (28,165 ) (920 )% $ (58 ) (2 )% Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Interest and other income (expense) decreased for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the prior year due to a $37.3 million foreign exchange loss, incurred primarily in the first quarter of 2015. The foreign exchange loss was primarily driven by the remeasurement of significant content liabilities denominated in currencies other than functional currencies in our European entities coupled with the strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Interest and other income (expense) for the year ended December 31, 2014 was relatively flat as compared to the prior year. Losses on foreign currency denominated balances were $8.2 million and $8.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Extinguishment of Debt In connection with the redemption of the outstanding $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of the 8.50% Notes, we recognized a loss on extinguishment of debt of $25.1 million in the year ended December 31, 2013, which consisted of expenses associated with the redemption, including a $19.4 million premium payment pursuant to the make-whole provision in the indenture governing the 8.50% Notes. For further detail see Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 23 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs. 2014 2014 vs. 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 19,244 $ 82,570 $ 58,671 $ (63,326 ) (77 )% 23,899 41 % Effective tax rate 14 % 24 % 34 % Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 is mainly due to an increase in R&D credits and a decrease in state and local income taxes. In 2015, the difference between our 14% effective tax rate and the Federal statutory rate of 35% was $30.4 million primarily due to a $13.4 million release of tax reserves on previously unrecognized tax benefits as a result of an IRS audit settlement leading to the reassessment of our reserves for all open years, $16.5 million related to the retroactive reinstatement of the 2015 Federal research and development (R&D) credit and the California R&D credit; partially offset by state income taxes, foreign taxes and nondeductible expenses. On December 18, 2015, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes Act of 2015 (H.R. 2029) was signed into law which retroactively and permanently extended the Federal R&D credit from January 1, 2015. As a result, we recognized the retroactive benefit of the 2015 R&D credit as a discrete item in the fourth quarter of 2015, the period in which the legislation was enacted. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 The decrease in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 was primarily attributable to the $38.6 million release of tax reserves on previously unrecognized tax benefits. In 2014, the difference between our 24% effective tax rate and the federal statutory rate of 35% was $39.7 million primarily due to a $38.6 million release of tax reserves on previously unrecognized tax benefits as a result of an IRS Appeals settlement for the tax years 2008-2009 leading to the reassessment of our reserves for all open years, $10.7 million related to the retroactive reinstatement of the 2014 Federal R&D credit and the California R&D credit; partially offset by state income taxes, foreign taxes and nondeductible expenses. On December 19, 2014, the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 (H.R. 5771) was signed into law which retroactively extended the Federal R&D credit from January 1, 2014 through December 31, 2014. As a result, we recognized the retroactive benefit of the 2014 Federal R&D credit as a discrete item in the fourth quarter of 2014, the period in which the legislation was enacted. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased $702.2 million to $2,310.7 million from $1,608.5 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. In February 2015, we issued $1,500.0 million of long-term debt and in February 2014 we issued $400.0 million of long-term debt. The increases in cash in the year ended December 31, 2015 associated with the issuance of debt was partially offset by cash outflows from operations and investing activities. Long-term debt, net of debt issuance costs, was $2,371.4 million and $885.8 million as of December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, respectively. See Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. Our primary uses of cash include the acquisition, licensing and production of content, streaming delivery, marketing programs and payroll. Investments in original content and in particular content that we produce and own, require more cash upfront relative to licensed content. We expect to significantly increase our investments in global streaming content, particularly in original content, which could impact our liquidity and result in future negative free cash flows. Although we currently anticipate that cash flows from operations, together with our available funds, will continue to be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next twelve months, to fund our continued content investments, we are likely to raise additional capital in future periods. Our ability to obtain this, or any additional financing that we may choose to, or need to, obtain to finance our international expansion, or investment in original content or otherwise, will depend on, among other things, our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and the condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We may not be able to obtain such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. 24 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2015, $200.3 million of cash and cash equivalents were held by our foreign subsidiaries. If these funds are needed for our operations in the U.S., we would be required to accrue and pay U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes on the amount associated with undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2015, the amount associated with undistributed earnings for certain foreign subsidiaries for which we could be required to accrue and pay taxes is $65.3 million. See Note 10 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information. Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as cash (used in) provided by operating and investing activities excluding the non-operational cash flows from purchases, maturities and sales of short-term investments. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity metric because it measures, during a given period, the amount of cash generated that is available to repay debt obligations, make investments and for certain other activities. Free cash flow is considered a non-GAAP financial measure and should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, net income, operating income, cash flow (used in) provided by operating activities, or any other measure of financial performance or liquidity presented in accordance with GAAP. In assessing liquidity in relation to our results of operations, we compare free cash flow to net income, noting that the three major recurring differences are excess content payments over expense, non-cash stock-based compensation expense and other working capital differences. The excess content payments over expense is variable based on the payment terms of our content agreements and is expected to increase as we enter into more agreements with upfront cash payments, such as licensing and production of original content. In 2015, the ratio of content payments over content expense was between 1.3 and 1.4. Working capital differences include deferred revenue, taxes and semi-annual interest payments on our outstanding debt. Our receivables from members generally settle quickly and deferred revenue is a source of cash flow. Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 (in thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (749,439 ) $ 16,483 $ 97,831 Net cash used in investing activities (179,192 ) (42,866 ) (255,968 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,640,277 541,712 476,264 Non-GAAP free cash flow reconciliation: Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (749,439 ) 16,483 97,831 Acquisition of DVD content assets (77,958 ) (74,790 ) (65,927 ) Purchases of property and equipment (91,248 ) (69,726 ) (54,143 ) Other assets (1,912 ) 1,334 5,939 Non-GAAP free cash flow $ (920,557 ) $ (126,699 ) $ (16,300 ) Year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 Cash provided by operating activities decreased $765.9 million resulting in net cash used in operating activities of $749.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The significant net cash used in operations is due primarily to the increase in investments in streaming content that requires more upfront payments. The payments for content excluding DVD assets increased $1,374.8 million or 40%. In addition we had increased payments associated with higher operating expenses. The increased use of cash was partially offset by a $1,274.9 million or 23% increase in revenues. Cash used in investing activities increased $136.3 million, primarily due to a decrease of $108.4 million in the proceeds from sales and maturities of short-term investments, net of purchases. In addition, purchases of property and equipment increased by $21.5 million. Cash provided by financing activities increased $1,098.6 million primarily due to the $1,482.4 million net proceeds from the issuance of the 5.50% Notes and the 5.875% Notes in the year ended December 31, 2015 as compared to the $392.9 million net proceeds from the issuance of the 5.750% Notes in the year ended December 31, 2014. Free cash flow was $1,043.2 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2015 primarily due to $1,209.4 million of content cash payments over expense partially offset by $124.7 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $41.5 million of favorable other working capital differences. 25 Table of Contents Free cash flow was $393.5 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to $534.2 million of content cash payments over expense partially offset by $115.2 million of non-cash stock-based compensation expense and $25.5 million of favorable other working capital differences. Year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 Cash provided by operating activities decreased $81.3 million, primarily due to increased payments for content other than DVD assets of $835.1 million or 32%, as well as increased payments associated with higher operating expenses. The increased use of cash was partially offset by a $1,130.1 million or 26% increase in revenues. Cash used in investing activities decreased $213.1 million, primarily due to a decrease of $242.2 million in the purchases of short-term investments, net of proceeds from sales and maturities. This decrease was offset by an increase of $15.6 million purchases of property and equipment. Cash provided by financing activities increased $65.4 million primarily due to the $392.9 million net proceeds from the issuance of the 5.750% Notes in the year ended December 31, 2014 as compared to the $490.6 million net proceeds from the issuance of the 5.375% Notes less the $219.4 million redemption of our 8.50% Notes in the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $56.3 million from the issuance of common stock, including the impact of excess tax benefits. Free cash flow was $128.7 million lower than net income for the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to $227.9 million of content cash payments over expense and $45.3 million non-favorable other working capital differences. This was partially offset by $73.1 million non-cash stock-based compensation expense, $46.3 million in deferred revenue and $25.1 million loss on debt extinguishment, the cash impact of which is a financing activity and therefore not included in free cash flow. Contractual Obligations For the purpose of this table, contractual obligations for purchases of goods or services are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The expected timing of the payment of the obligations discussed below is estimated based on information available to us as of December 31, 2015. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2015: Payments due by Period Contractual obligations (in thousands): Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Streaming content obligations (1) $ 10,902,231 $ 4,703,172 $ 5,249,147 $ 891,864 $ 58,048 Debt (2) 3,425,813 135,375 270,750 270,750 2,748,938 Lease obligations (3) 529,744 42,545 112,826 104,996 269,377 Other purchase obligations (4) 322,793 217,004 105,275 170 344 Total $ 15,180,581 $ 5,098,096 $ 5,737,998 $ 1,267,780 $ 3,076,707 (1) As of December 31, 2015, streaming content obligations were comprised of $2.8 billion included in "Current content liabilities" and $2.0 billion of "Non-current content liabilities" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and $6.1 billion of obligations that are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as they do not yet meet the criteria for asset recognition. Streaming content obligations increased $1.4 billion from $9.5 billion as of December 31, 2014 to $10.9 billion as of December 31, 2015 primarily due to multi-year commitments primarily associated with the continued expansion of our exclusive and original programing. Streaming content obligations include amounts related to the acquisition, licensing and production of streaming content. An obligation for the production of content includes non-cancelable commitments under creative talent and employment agreements. An obligation for the acquisition and licensing of content is incurred at the time we enter into an agreement 26 Table of Contents to obtain future titles. Once a title becomes available, a content liability is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Certain agreements include the obligation to license rights for unknown future titles, the ultimate quantity and / or fees for which are not yet determinable as of the reporting date. Traditional film output deals, like the U.S. output deal with Disney, or certain TV series license agreements where the number of seasons to be aired is unknown, are examples of these types of agreements. The contractual obligations table above does not include any estimated obligation for the unknown future titles, payment for which could range from less than one year to more than five years. However, these unknown obligations are expected to be significant and we believe could include approximately $3 billion to $5 billion over the next three years, with the payments for the vast majority of such amounts expected to occur after the next twelve months. The foregoing range is based on considerable management judgments and the actual amounts may differ. Once we know the title that we will receive and the license fees, we include the amount in the contractual obligations table above. (2) Long-term debt obligations include our Notes consisting of principal and interest payments. See Note 5 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further details. (3) Lease obligations include lease financing obligations of $21.1 million related to our current Los Gatos, California headquarters for which we are the deemed owner for accounting purposes, commitments of $428.7 million for our expanded headquarters in Los Gatos, California and our new office space in Los Angeles, California and other commitments of $79.9 million for facilities under non-cancelable operating leases. These leases have expiration dates varying through approximately 2028. (4) Other purchase obligations include all other non-cancelable contractual obligations. These contracts are primarily related to streaming delivery, DVD content acquisition, and miscellaneous open purchase orders for which we have not received the related services or goods. As of December 31, 2015, we had gross unrecognized tax benefits of $17.1 million of which $3.6 million was recorded in "Accrued Expenses" in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the remaining $13.5 million, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of the timing of payments in individual years due to uncertainties in the timing of tax audit outcomes, therefore, such amounts are not included in the above contractual obligation table. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have transactions with unconsolidated entities, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, whereby we have financial guarantees, subordinated retained interests, derivative instruments, or other contingent arrangements that expose us to material continuing risks, contingent liabilities, or any other obligation under a variable interest in an unconsolidated entity that provides financing, liquidity, market risk, or credit risk support to us. Indemnifications The information set forth under Note 7 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data under the caption GuaranteesIndemnification Obligations is incorporated herein by reference. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported periods. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has defined a companys critical accounting policies as the ones that are most important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations, and which require a company to make its most difficult and subjective judgments. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting policies and judgments addressed below. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. 27 Table of Contents Streaming Content We acquire, license and produce content, including original programming, in order to offer our members unlimited viewing of TV shows and films. The content licenses are for a fixed fee and specific windows of availability. Payment terms for certain content licenses and the production of content require more upfront cash payments relative to the amortization expense. Payments for content, including additions to streaming assets and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within "Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities" on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. For licenses we capitalize the fee per title and record a corresponding liability at the gross amount of the liability when the license period begins, the cost of the title is known and the title is accepted and available for streaming. The portion available for streaming within one year is recognized as Current content assets, net and the remaining portion as Non-current content assets, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For productions we capitalize costs associated with the production, including development cost and direct costs. We include these amounts in "Non-current content assets, net" on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Participations and residuals are expensed in line with the amortization of production costs. Based on factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns, we amortize the content assets (licensed and produced) in Cost of revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Operations, over the shorter of each title's contractual window of availability or estimated period of use, beginning with the month of first availability. The amortization period typically ranges from six months to five years. For most of our content, we amortize on a straight-line basis. For certain content where we expect more upfront viewing, due to the additional merchandising and marketing efforts, we amortize on an accelerated basis. We review factors that impact the amortization of the content assets on a regular basis, including changes in merchandising and marketing efforts. Our estimates related to these factors require considerable management judgment. Changes in our estimates could have a significant impact on our future results of operations. In the third quarter of 2015, we changed the amortization method of certain content given changes in estimated viewing patterns of this content. The effect of this change in estimate was a $25.5 million increase in cost of revenues in the Domestic streaming segment, for the year ended December 31, 2015. Content assets are stated at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value, which approximates fair value of the capitalized costs for produced content. Content assets are reviewed in aggregate at the operating segment level for write-down when an event or change in circumstances indicates a change in the expected usefulness of the content. Unamortized costs for assets that have been, or are expected to be, abandoned are written off. No material write-down from unamortized cost to a lower net realizable value was recorded in any of the periods presented. We have entered into certain licenses with collective management organizations ("CMOs"), and are currently involved in negotiations with other CMOs, that hold certain rights to music and other entertainment works "publicly performed" in connection with streaming content into various territories. Accruals for estimated license fees are recorded and then adjusted based on any changes in estimates. These amounts are included in the streaming content obligations. The results of these negotiations are uncertain and may be materially different from management's estimates. Income Taxes We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of our reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Deferred income taxes are recognized by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases as well as net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The measurement of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance for any tax benefits for which future realization is uncertain. There was no valuation allowance as of December 31, 2015 or 2014. Although we believe our assumptions, judgments and estimates are reasonable, changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws and the resolution of any tax audits could significantly impact the amounts provided for income taxes in our consolidated financial statements. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets, in full or in part, we consider all available positive and negative evidence, including our past operating results, and our forecast of future earnings, future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. The assumptions utilized in determining future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. Actual operating results in future years could differ from our current assumptions, judgments and estimates. However, we believe that it is more likely than not that substantially all deferred tax assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets will ultimately be realized. In the event we were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the period in which we make such determination. 28 Table of Contents We did not recognize certain tax benefits from uncertain tax positions within the provision for income taxes. We may recognize a tax benefit only if it is more likely than not the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon settlement. At December 31, 2015, our estimated gross unrecognized tax benefits were $17.1 million of which $13.5 million, if recognized, would favorably impact our future earnings. Due to uncertainties in any tax audit outcome, our estimates of the ultimate settlement of our unrecognized tax positions may change and the actual tax benefits may differ significantly from the estimates. See Note 10 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information regarding income taxes. Stock-Based Compensation We grant fully vested non-qualified stock options to our employees on a monthly basis. As a result of immediate vesting, stock-based compensation expense is fully recognized on the grant date, and no estimate is required for post-vesting option forfeitures. Stock-based compensation expense at the grant date is based on the total number of options granted and an estimate of the fair value of the awards. We calculate the fair value of our stock option grants using a lattice-binomial model. This model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. Changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value of options granted and our results of operations could be impacted. Expected Volatility: Prior to January 1, 2015, our computation of expected volatility was based on a blend of historical volatility of our common stock and implied volatility of tradable forward call options to purchase shares of our common stock, as low trade volume of our tradable forward call options prior to 2011 precluded sole reliance on implied volatility. Beginning on January 1, 2015, expected volatility is based solely on implied volatility. We believe that implied volatility of publicly traded options in our common stock is more reflective of market conditions and, given consistently high trade volumes of the options, can reasonably be expected to be a better indicator of expected volatility than historical volatility of our common stock. An increase/decrease of 10% in our computation of expected volatility would increase/decrease the total stock-based compensation expense by approximately $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. Suboptimal Exercise Factor: Our computation of the suboptimal exercise factor is based on historical and estimated option exercise behavior. Prior to January 1, 2015, we bifurcated its option grants into two employee groupings (executive and non-executive) to determine the suboptimal exercise factor. Beginning on January 1, 2015, we began aggregating employee groupings for its determination of the suboptimal exercise factor as the previous bifurcation into two groupings did not have a material impact on the fair value of the options granted. An increase/decrease in the suboptimal exercise factor of 10% would increase/decrease the total stock-based compensation expense by approximately $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015.