Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. For example, the words believes, anticipates, plans, expects, intends, could, may, will, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements represent NETGEAR, Inc.s expectations or beliefs concerning future events based on information available at the time such statements were made and include statements regarding: NETGEARs future operating performance and financial condition, including expectations regarding continued profitability and cash generation; expectations regarding the timing, distribution, sales momentum and market acceptance of recent and anticipated new product introductions that position the Company for growth and market share gain; and expectations regarding NETGEAR's paid subscriber base growth, registered users and registered app users and their effect on NETGEAR's paid subscriber base. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, including the following: uncertainty surrounding the duration and impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic; future demand for the Company's products may be lower than anticipated; consumers may choose not to adopt the Company's new product offerings or adopt competing products; product performance may be adversely affected by real world operating conditions; the Company may be unsuccessful or experience delays in manufacturing and distributing its new and existing products; telecommunications service providers may choose to slow their deployment of the Company's products or utilize competing products; the Company may be unable to grow its number of registered users and/or registered app users; the Company may be unable to grow its paid subscriber base; the Company may be unable to collect receivables as they become due; the Company may fail to manage costs, including the cost of developing new products and manufacturing and distribution of its existing offerings; the Company may fail to successfully continue to effect operating expense savings; changes in the level of NETGEAR's cash resources and the Company's planned usage of such resources, including potential repurchases of the Companys common stock; changes in the Company's stock price and developments in the business that could increase the Company's cash needs; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and the actions and financial health of the Company's customers. Further, certain forward-looking statements are based on assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate. Therefore, our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Part IIItem 1ARisk Factors and Liquidity and Capital Resources below. All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information available to us as of the date hereof and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements except as required by law. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in this quarterly report. Unless expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, the terms we, our, us and NETGEAR refer to NETGEAR, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Business and Executive Overview We are a global company that delivers innovative, advanced high performance networking technologies and Internet connected products to consumers, businesses, and service providers. Our products are designed to simplify and improve peoples lives. Our goal is to enable people to collaborate and connect to a world of information and entertainment. We are dedicated to delivering innovative and advanced connected solutions ranging from mobile and cloud-based services for enhanced control and security, to smart networking products, video over Ethernet for Pro AV applications, easy-to-use WiFi solutions and performance gaming routers to enhance console, online and cloud game play. Our products are built on a variety of technologies such as wireless (WiFi and 4G/5G mobile), Ethernet and powerline, with a focus on reliability and ease-of-use. Additionally, we continually invest in research and development to create new technologies and to capitalize on technological inflection points and trends, such as WiFi 6, 5G and Pro-AV. Our product lines consist of devices that create and extend wired and wireless networks as well as devices that provide a special function and attach to the network, such as smart digital canvasses. These products are available in multiple configurations to address the changing needs of our customers in each geographic region in which our products are sold. 34 Table of Contents We operate and report in two segments: Connected Home, and Small and Medium Business ("SMB"). We believe that this structure reflects our current operational and financial management, and provides the best structure for us to focus on growth opportunities while maintaining financial discipline. The leadership team of each segment is focused on product development efforts, both from a product marketing and engineering standpoint, to service the unique needs of their customers. The Connected Home segment is focused on consumers and consists of high-performance, dependable and easy-to-use WiFi internet networking solutions such as WiFi mesh systems, routers, 4G/5G mobile products, smart devices such as Meural digital canvasses, and services offering consumers a range of parental controls and cyber security for their home networks. The SMB segment is focused on small and medium-sized businesses and consists of business networking, wireless LAN, storage, and security solutions that bring enterprise-class functionality to small and medium-sized businesses at an affordable price. We conduct business across three geographic regions: Americas; Europe, Middle-East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC). The markets in which our segments operate are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the consumer and small and medium business markets for networking products include product breadth, price points, size and scope of the sales channel, brand name, timeliness of new product introductions, product availability, performance, features, functionality and reliability, ease-of-installation, maintenance and use, security, and customer service and support. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to aggressively invest resources in developing new products and subscription services, enhancing our current products, expanding our channels including our direct to consumer capabilities, increasing engagement with our customers and maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide. Our investments reflect our enhanced focus on cybersecurity relating to our products and systems, as the threat of cyber-attacks and exploitation of potential security vulnerabilities in our industry is on the rise and is increasingly a significant consumer concern. We sell our products through multiple sales channels worldwide, including traditional retailers, online retailers, wholesale distributors, direct market resellers (DMRs), value-added resellers (VARs), broadband service providers and our webstore at www.netgear.com for the U.S. market. Our retail channel includes traditional retail locations domestically and internationally, such as Best Buy, Costco, Wal-Mart, Staples, Office Depot, Target, FNAC (Europe), MediaMarkt (Europe), Darty (France), JB HiFi (Australia), Elkjop (Norway) and Sunning and Guomei (China). Online retailers include Amazon.com worldwide, Newegg.com (US), JD.com and Alibaba (China), as well as Coolblue.com (Netherlands). Our DMRs include CDW Corporation, Insight Corporation and PC Connection in domestic markets. Our main wholesale distributors include Ingram Micro, D&H, Tech Data, Exertis (U.K.) and Synnex. In addition, we also sell our products through broadband service providers, such as multiple system operators (MSOs), xDSL, mobile, and other broadband technology operators domestically and internationally. Some of these retailers and broadband service providers purchase directly from us, while others are fulfilled through wholesale distributors around the world. A substantial portion of our net revenue is derived from a limited number of wholesale distributors, service providers and retailers. We expect this trend will continue in the foreseeable future. During the three months ended March 29, 2020, our net revenue and income from operations decreased by $19.1 million and $13.3 million, compared to the prior year period, respectively. The decrease in net revenue was primarily due to a combination of lower service provider revenue of $10.8 million and the prior year period benefitting from a pull-forward of demand from U.K. channel partners in advance of the originally scheduled BREXIT deadline. The fall in service provider net revenue was partially offset by higher net revenue from non-service provider customers in the Americas, which saw increased demand in response to work from home mandates resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross margin decreased to 28.8% from 32.9% in the prior year period, primarily due to product mix, higher provisions for sales returns and warranty expenses and higher channel promotional activities deemed to be a reduction of revenue . The decline in gross margin was partially offset by a decrease of $2.4 million in operating expenses, primarily driven by lower expenditures in sales and marketing of $2.8 million. On a geographic basis, net revenue increased in Americas and decreased in EMEA and APAC in the three months ended March 29, 2020 as compared to the prior year period. The increase in Americas net revenue was primarily driven by net revenue of our mobile, broadband modem and gateway and home wireless products, partially offset by lower net revenue of our switches, and network storage products. The fall in EMEA was primarily driven by lower net revenue of our switches, home wireless, and mobile products. The decline in APAC was primarily due to lower net revenue of broadband modem and gateway, home wireless, mobile and switch products. 35 Table of Contents COVID-19 Pandemic On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and work force participation and created significant volatility and disruption of financial markets. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic initially impacted our supply chain partners, lowering finished good receipts by approximately 30% compared to planned receipts in the three months ended March 29, 2020. At the same time, we saw a significant increase in airfreight rates to secure supply in response to reduced capacity by carriers. In March 2020, the spread of the pandemic to the US and mainland Europe resulted in a surge in demand for Connected Home products as consumers responded to work from home and shelter-in-place measures. In addition, demand for SMB products began to weaken as businesses faced closures and reacted to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic. By the middle of March 2020, the majority of our major offices worldwide had enacted shelter-in-place measures, with employees being mandated to work from home. We enabled our crisis management team and put in place travel restrictions initially to/from Mainland China and Hong Kong early in the quarter, and subsequently restricted all international travel, while limiting domestic travel to essential travel only in order to protect the health and well-being of our workforce and prevent the spread of the virus. A number of our large customers were designated as essential service providers allowing us to fulfill demand without restrictions. By the close of the quarter, a number of our large retail trading partners had closed their stores and began fulfilling customer demand through a combination of curbside pick-up and online sales. Our wholesale distributors in certain regions, such as Italy, have been subject to disruption and forced to operate on a reduced basis. In addition, we have donated hundreds of mobile hotspots to various San Francisco Bay Area school districts in the U.S. for student use as part of our response to helping our local community cope with the effects of the pandemic. Given the current business shutdown and shelter-in-place/stay-at-home orders in various parts of the world, and the uncertainty of how and when such lockdowns will be eased, we are withdrawing our prior targets of net revenue growth and gross margin for 2020 as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about a considerable shift in our business while increasing uncertainty. We are seeing a surge in demand for our Connected Home products in both service provider and non-service provider channels. We expect service provider net revenue in the second fiscal quarter to increase 50% compared with the first fiscal quarter of 2020. We cannot predict how long the surge in demand for Connected Home products from non-service provider channels will last or what that demand will look like after it subsides. In the next two quarters, we expect limitations to supply capacity which is expected to be constrained by material availability, factory uptime and freight capacity. With the shift in demand from retail to online, we expect channel inventory to decline as channel partners move to more efficient operating structures, which could further constrain our net revenue. We expect SMB businesses to reduce infrastructure investments or delay projects which will impact demand and result in an approximately 25% decline in net revenue in the second fiscal quarter of 2020 sequentially. The change in net revenue mix is expected to adversely impact both gross and operating margin as SMB products typically have a higher margin attainment than Connected Home products. Further, while we currently expect supply chain partners to be able to return operations to normal capacity in the second quarter of 2020, any further disruption brought about by COVID-19 to supply chain partners, production schedules or freight carriers could have a significant negative impact on gross and operating margin performance. As a result of the aforementioned factors, while we are unable to predict what operating profit may be in the second fiscal quarter of 2020, we do not believe it will exceed the level attained in the first fiscal quarter of 2020. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic and related restrictions on travel and transport, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. The impact of the pandemic on our employees, their health and well-being and our ability to instill our company culture and maintain productivity is uncertain and cannot be predicted. We have seen an increase in work from home and distance learning mandates and believe the pandemic will mark a favorable move to greater participation by companies and employees in such environments, however we are unable to assess such impacts. Refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for various risks and uncertainties associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. 36 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 29, 2020, with the comparable reporting period in the preceding year. Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Net revenue $ 229,963 100.0 % $ 249,082 100.0 % Cost of revenue 163,722 71.2 % 167,074 67.1 % Gross profit 66,241 28.8 % 82,008 32.9 % Operating expenses: Research and development 19,739 8.6 % 18,832 7.6 % Sales and marketing 33,031 14.3 % 35,855 14.3 % General and administrative 13,134 5.7 % 13,117 5.3 % Other operating expenses (income), net (332 ) (0.1 )% 196 0.1 % Total operating expenses 65,572 28.5 % 68,000 27.3 % Income from operations 669 0.3 % 14,008 5.6 % Interest income, net 262 0.1 % 701 0.3 % Other income (expense), net (4,586 ) (2.0 )% 341 0.1 % Income (loss) before income taxes (3,655 ) (1.6 )% 15,050 6.0 % Provision for income taxes 518 0.2 % 2,207 0.8 % Net income (loss) $ (4,173 ) (1.8 )% $ 12,843 5.2 % Net Revenue by Geographic Region Our net revenue consists of gross product shipments and service revenue, less allowances for estimated sales returns, price protection, end-user customer rebates and other channel sales incentives deemed to be a reduction of net revenue per the authoritative guidance for revenue recognition, and net changes in deferred revenue. We conduct business across three geographic regions: Americas, EMEA and APAC. For reporting purposes, revenue is generally attributed to each geographic region based upon the location of the customer. Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Americas $ 158,190 6.9 % $ 148,029 Percentage of net revenue 68.8 % 59.4 % EMEA $ 42,148 (26.0 )% $ 56,963 Percentage of net revenue 18.3 % 22.9 % APAC $ 29,625 (32.8 )% $ 44,090 Percentage of net revenue 12.9 % 17.7 % Total net revenue $ 229,963 (7.7 )% $ 249,082 Americas Net revenue in Americas increased in the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period. The increase was largely due to increased demand for our Connected Home products in response to work from home mandates resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The increase was offset by lower SMB net revenue as the pandemic negatively impacted demand. From a product perspective, the increase in net revenue was primarily driven by mobile products, broadband modem and gateway and home wireless products, partially offset by lower net revenue of our switches, and network storage products. 37 Table of Contents EMEA Net revenue in EMEA decreased in the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period. The decline was largely due to the prior year period benefiting from a pull forward of demand from UK distribution partners in advance of the original scheduled BREXIT. In addition, net revenue from service provider customers declined by $5.6 million year over year as our partners awaited the launch of 5G products. The net revenue decline was mainly experienced in switches, home wireless, and mobile products . APAC The decrease of net revenue in APAC for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, was mainly driven by lower net revenue of $10.3 million from our service provider customers, which largely driven by service provider revenue in Australia, as our customers in region awaited the launch of 5G products. The decline in APAC net revenue was primarily due to lower net revenue of broadband modem and gateway, home wireless, mobile and switch products. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of the following: the cost of finished products from our third party manufacturers; overhead costs, including purchasing, product planning, inventory control, warehousing and distribution logistics; third-party software licensing fees; inbound freight; import duties/tariffs; warranty costs associated with returned goods; write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory; amortization of certain acquired intangibles and capitalized software development costs; and costs attributable to the provision of service offerings. We outsource our manufacturing, warehousing and distribution logistics. We believe this outsourcing strategy allows us to better manage our product costs and gross margin. Our gross margin can be affected by a number of factors, including fluctuation in foreign exchange rates, sales returns, changes in average selling prices, end-user customer rebates and other channel sales incentives, changes in our cost of goods sold due to fluctuations in prices paid for components, net of vendor rebates, warranty and overhead costs, inbound freight and duty/tariffs, conversion costs, charges for excess or obsolete inventory, amortization of acquired intangibles and capitalized software development costs. The following table presents costs of revenue and gross margin, for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Cost of revenue $ 163,722 (2.0 )% $ 167,074 Gross margin percentage 28.8 % 32.9 % Cost of revenue decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020 compared to the prior year period, mainly due to lower net revenue and Section 301 tariffs incurred. Gross margin decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020 compared to the prior year period, primarily due to product mix, higher provisions for sales returns and warranty expenses, and higher channel promotional activities deemed to be a reduction of revenue. The decline in gross margin was partially due to significantly lower net revenue of SMB products compared with the prior year period. In the first fiscal quarter of 2020, our supply chain partners operated at reduced capacity due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which increased the product transfer cost of inventory sourced in the first fiscal quarter of 2020 expected to be sold in the second fiscal quarter of 2020. Additionally, air freight carriers have been operating at reduced capacity resulting in significantly increased rates associated with supply. While we expect supply chain partners to return operations to normal capacity in the second quarter of 2020, any further disruption brought about by COVID-19 to supply chain partners, production schedules or capacity offered by freight carriers could have a significant negative impact on gross margin performance. Further, in the second quarter of 2020, we expect a decline of approximately 25% in net revenue from SMB 38 Table of Contents sequentially which is expected to negatively impact gross margin percentage as SMB products typically achieve a higher margin attainment than CHP. Forecasting gross margin percentages is difficult, and there are a number of risks related to our ability to maintain or improve our current gross margin levels. Our cost of revenue as a percentage of net revenue can vary significantly based upon factors such as: uncertainties surrounding revenue levels, including future pricing and/or potential discounts as a result of the economy or in response to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in our international markets, and related production level variances; import customs duties and imposed tariffs; competition; changes in technology; changes in product mix; variability of stock-based compensation costs; royalties to third parties; fluctuations in freight and repair costs; manufacturing and purchase price variances; changes in prices on commodity components; warranty costs; and the timing of sales, particularly to service provider customers. We expect that revenue derived from paid subscription service plans will increase in the future, which may have a positive impact on our gross margin. From time to time, however, we may experience fluctuations in our gross margin as a result of the factors discussed above. Operating Expenses Research and Development Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel expenses, payments to suppliers for design services, safety and regulatory testing, product certification expenditures to qualify our products for sale into specific markets, prototypes, IT and facility allocations, and other consulting fees. Research and development expenses are recognized as they are incurred. Our research and development organization is focused on enhancing our ability to introduce innovative and easy-to-use products and services. The following table presents research and development expense, for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Research and development $ 19,739 4.8 % $ 18,832 Research and development expense increased for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, mainly due to increases in engineering projects and outside professional services of $1.8 million, partially offset by declines in IT and facility allocations of $0.5 million. Research and development headcount was 276 as of March 29, 2020 and 275 as of March 31, 2019. We believe that innovation and technological leadership is critical to our future success, and we are committed to continuing a significant level of research and development to develop new technologies, products and services to combat competitive pressures. We continue to invest in research and development to grow our cloud platform capabilities, and connected home products portfolio including services and mobile applications, expand our Pro-AV, web-managed, app-managed, 10Gig and PoE switch products, and develop innovative WiFi and 4G/5G mobile Advanced and 5G coverage solutions. For the second fiscal quarter of 2020, we expect research and development expenses to be in line with the first fiscal quarter of 2020. Research and development remains critical to our future success and we expect to continue to allocate resources to help accelerate growth in key strategic areas such as the continued development of our WiFi 6 product portfolio as well as service offerings. Research and development expenses will fluctuate depending on the timing and number of development activities in any given quarter and could vary significantly as a percentage of net revenue, depending on actual revenues achieved in any given quarter. 39 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of advertising, trade shows, corporate communications and other marketing expenses, product marketing expenses, outbound freight costs, amortization of certain intangibles, personnel expenses for sales and marketing staff, technical support expenses, and IT and facility allocations. The following table presents sales and marketing expense, for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Sales and marketing $ 33,031 (7.9 )% $ 35,855 Sales and marketing expense decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, primarily attributable to decreases in marketing expenditures of $1.3 million primarily due to fewer brand marketing campaigns and personnel-related expenditures of $1.0 million. The reduction in personnel-related expenditures was primarily attributable to headcount reducing from 297 as of March 31, 2019 to 272 as of March 29, 2020. The fall in headcount was primarily associated with restructuring activities during the latter part of fiscal 2019 as we reduced headcount in China and a number of other countries in APAC and EMEA. In addition, we closed offices in some of the affected jurisdictions. We expect our sales and marketing expense in the second fiscal quarter of 2020 to be in line with the first fiscal quarter of 2020. Expenses may fluctuate depending on revenue levels achieved as certain expenses, such as commissions, are determined based upon the revenues achieved. Forecasting sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of net revenue is highly dependent on expected revenue levels and could vary significantly depending on actual revenues achieved in any given quarter. Marketing expenses will also fluctuate depending upon the timing, extent and nature of marketing programs. Marketing expenditure committed with a customer is generally recorded as a reduction of net revenue per authoritative guidance. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of salaries and related expenses for executives, finance and accounting, human resources, information technology, professional fees, including legal costs associated with defending claims against us, allowance for doubtful accounts, IT and facility allocations, and other general corporate expenses. The following table presents general and administrative expense, for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) General and administrative $ 13,134 0.1 % $ 13,117 General and administrative expense remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period. General and administrative headcount was 143 as of March 29, 2020 and 145 as of March 31, 2019. We expect our general and administrative expenses in the second fiscal quarter of 2020 to be in line with the first fiscal quarter of 2020. General and administrative expenses could fluctuate depending on a number of factors, including the level and timing of expenditures associated with litigation defense costs in connection with the litigation matters described i n Note 8 , Commitments and Contingencies, in Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q . Future general and administrative expense increases or decreases in absolute dollars are difficult to predict due to the lack of visibility of certain costs, including legal costs associated with defending claims against us, as well as legal costs associated with asserting and enforcing our intellectual property portfolio and other factors. 40 Table of Contents Other operating expenses (income) , net Other operating expenses (income), net consists of separation expense, restructuring and other charges, litigation reserves, net and change in the fair value of contingent consideration. Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Other operating expenses (income), net $ (332 ) ** $ 196 ** Percentage change not meaningful. The change in Other operating expenses (income), net in the three months ended March 29, 2020 was not material compared to the prior year period . Interest Income, Net and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest income, net represents amounts earned on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Other income (expense), net primarily represents gains and losses on transactions denominated in foreign currencies, gains and losses on investments, and other non-operating income and expenses. The following table presents interest income, net and other income (expense), net for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Interest income, net $ 262 (62.6 )% $ 701 Other income (expense), net (4,586 ) ** 341 Total $ (4,324 ) ** $ 1,042 ** Percentage change not meaningful. Interest income, net decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020, mainly due to lower short term invested balances and lower yields on invested funds. The change in other income (expense), net in the three months ended March 29, 2020 compared to the prior year period was primarily due to $4.5 million of impairment charges brought about by triggering events impacting the valuation of a number of our privately held long-term investments, partially due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic . Our foreign currency hedging program effectively reduced volatility associated with hedged currency exchange rate movements during the three months ended March 29, 2020. For a detailed discussion of our hedging program and related foreign currency contracts, refer to Note 5. Derivative Financial Instruments , in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (In thousands, except percentage data) Provision for income taxes $ 518 (76.5 )% $ 2,207 Effective tax rate (14.2 )% 14.7 % 41 Table of Contents I ncome tax expense decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period . The tax expense incurred in the three months e nded March 29, 2020 was due to the combination of tax benefit recorded on the pre-tax loss for the period offset by reversal in deferred tax assets. The decline in tax expense compared with the prior year period was due primarily to profit before tax being $15.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to a loss of $3.7 million in the three months ended March 29, 2020. The write-down of deferred tax assets resulted from increases in valuation allowance on investment losses recorded during the period and from the tax effect of shortfalls in stock based compensation expense. For the period ended March 31, 2019, tax expense was partially offset by the conclusion of a French tax audit, resulting in favorable chan ges to uncertain tax positions. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our future foreign tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition in earnings in countries with tax rates differing from the U.S. federal rate. We are under examination in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) was signed into law in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The CARES Act, among other provisions, includes provisions related to refundable payroll tax credits, deferment of the employer portion of certain payroll taxes, net operating losses carryback periods, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, modification to net interest expense deduction limitation, and technical amendments to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property placed in service after December 31, 2017. The Company does not expect these provisions of The CARES Act to have a material impact to income taxes. Segment Information A description of our products and services, as well as segment financial data, for each segment and a reconciliation of segment contribution income to income before income taxes can be found in Note 11. Segment Information , in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Connected Home Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (in thousands, except percentage data) Net revenue $ 164,663 (2.8 )% $ 169,365 Percentage of net revenue 71.6 % 68.0 % Contribution income $ 13,587 (28.9 )% $ 19,119 Contribution margin 8.3 % 11.3 % The decrease in Connected Home segment net revenue in the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, was mainly driven by lower net revenue of $10.1 million to service provider customers. The fall in service provider net revenue was partially offset by higher net revenue from non-service provider customers in the Americas, which saw increased demand in response to work from home mandates resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. We experienced declines in net revenue of broadband modem and gateway and home wireless products, partially offset by increased net revenue of our mobile products. The decline in home wireless was mainly attributable to older technologies, largely offset by net revenue from WiFi 6 products . From a geographic perspective, we experienced net revenue growth in Americas with declines in EMEA and APAC, compared to the prior year period. Contribution income decreased in three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, primarily due to lower net revenue and gross margin attainment. The lower gross margin attainment was mainly driven by higher provisions for sales returns and warranty expense, higher channel promotional activities deemed to be a reduction of revenue and higher provisions for excess and obsolete inventory. 42 Table of Contents SMB Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 % Change March 31, 2019 (in thousands, except percentage data) Net revenue $ 65,300 (18.1 )% $ 79,717 Percentage of net revenue 28.4 % 32.0 % Contribution income $ 13,567 (40.2 )% $ 22,685 Contribution margin 20.8 % 28.5 % SMB segment net revenue decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, mainly due to revenue in the prior year period benefiting from a pull forward of demand from UK distribution partners in advance of the original scheduled BREXIT deadline. In addition, the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted net revenue in the Americas as channel partners experienced disruption to their businesses. From a product perspective, the decline was primarily in switches and network storage products, both driven by lower sales to our non-service provider customers. Geographically, net revenue decreased in all three regions, compared to the prior year period. Contribution income decreased for the three months ended March 29, 2020, compared to the prior year period, primarily as a result of lower net revenue, lower gross margin attainment, and higher operating expenses as a proportion of net revenue. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash generated from operations. As of March 29, 2020, we had cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment of $209.7 million, an increase of $14.0 million from $195.7 million as of December 31, 2019. As of March 29, 2020, approximately 44% of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments were outside of the U.S. The cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments balances outside of the U.S. are subject to fluctuation based on the settlement of intercompany balances. As we repatriate these funds in accordance with our designation of funds not permanently reinvested outside of the US, we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have recorded deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the U.S. The following table presents our cash flows for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 29, 2020 March 31, 2019 (In thousands) Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 29,005 $ (37,193 ) Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (1,506 ) 35,841 Cash used in financing activities (13,415 ) (14,015 ) Net cash increase (decrease) $ 14,084 $ (15,367 ) Operating activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $29.0 million for the three months ended March 29, 2020 compared to $37.2 million of cash used in the prior year period, primarily due to favorable working capital movements, partially offset by lower net income. The higher net cash inflow from working capital was mainly driven by lower inventory holding and lower payments to suppliers. 43 Table of Contents Our DSO decreased to 100 days as of March 29, 2020 as compared to 102 days as of December 31, 201 9 . Our accounts payable decreased from $80.5 million as of December 31, 201 9 to $39.2 million as of March 29, 2020 as inventory receipts from trade suppliers were lower in the three months ended March 29, 2020 compared to the three months ended December 31, 2019 , in part due to disruptions to supply chains as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic . Inventory decreased from $235.5 million as of December 31, 20 19 to $180.6 million as of March 29, 2020 . Ending inventory turns were 3.6 in the three months ended March 29, 2020 up from 3. 1 turns in the three months ended December 31, 201 9 . Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.5 million in the three months ended March 29, 2020 compared to $35.8 million of cash provided in the prior year period. During the three months ended March 29, 2020, investing cash outflows mainly related to purchases of property and equipment. In the prior year period, $47.1 million of cash received from maturities of short-term investments more than offset the cash outflows on purchases of property and equipment and long-term assets. Financing activities Net cash used in financing activities was $13.4 million in the three months ended March 29, 2020, lower by $0.6 million, compared to $14.0 million in the prior year period, primarily due to lower payments relating to restricted stock unit tax withholdings, partially offset by lower proceeds from exercise of stock options. From time to time, our Board of Directors has authorized programs under which we may repurchase shares of our common stock. Under the authorizations, the timing and actual number of shares subject to repurchase are at the discretion of management and are contingent on a number of factors, such as levels of cash generation from operations, cash requirements for acquisitions and the price of our common stock. As of March 29, 2020, 3.0 million shares remained authorized for repurchase under the repurchase program. We repurchased and retired, reported based on trade date, approximately 0.6 million and 0.4 million shares of common stock for the three months ended March 29, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, and at a cost of approximately $15.0 million for each period. We also repurchased and retired, reported based on trade date, approximately 54,000 and 89,000 shares of common stock, at a cost of approximately $1.3 million and $3.3 million during the three months ended March 29, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, to administratively facilitate the withholding and subsequent remittance of personal income and payroll taxes for individuals receiving RSUs. For a detailed discussion of our common stock repurchases, refer to Note 9. Stockholders Equity , in Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We recognize the importance of maintaining a strong cash position in a time of uncertainty and intend to balance our practice of repurchasing shares with our desire to maintain a strong balance sheet. We enter into foreign currency forward-exchange contracts, which typically mature within six months, to hedge a portion of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations of foreign currency-denominated revenue, costs of revenue, certain operating expenses, receivables, payables, and cash balances. We record on the consolidated balance sheets at each reporting period the fair value of our forward-exchange contracts and record any fair value adjustments in our consolidated statements of operations and on our consolidated balance sheets. Gains and losses associated with currency rate changes on hedge contracts that are non-designated under the authoritative guidance for derivatives and hedging are recorded within other income (expense), net, offsetting foreign exchange gains and losses on our monetary assets and liabilities. Gains and losses associated with currency rate changes on hedge contracts that are designated cash flow hedges under the authoritative guidance for derivatives and hedging are recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income until the related revenue, costs of revenue, or expenses are recognized. Based on our current plans and market conditions, we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, we may require or desire additional funds to support our operating expenses and capital requirements or for other purposes, such as acquisitions, and may seek to raise such additional funds through public or private equity financing or from other sources. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available at all or that, if available, such financing would be obtainable on terms favorable to us and would not be dilutive. Our future liquidity and cash requirements will depend on numerous factors, including the introduction of new products and potential acquisitions of related businesses or technology. 44 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Except as follows, there were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in our contractual obligations as of March 29, 2020, from those as of December 31, 2019 disclosed in Part II, Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. We have entered into various master purchase agreements for inventory with suppliers. Generally, under these agreements, 50% of orders are cancelable by giving notice 46 to 60 days prior to the expected shipment date and 25% of orders are cancelable by giving notice 31 to 45 days prior to the expected shipment date. Orders are non-cancelable within 30 days prior to the expected shipment date. For those orders not governed by master purchase agreements, the commitments are governed by the commercial terms on our purchase orders subject to acknowledgment from our suppliers. As of March 29, 2020, we had approximately $79.6 million in non-cancelable purchase commitments with suppliers. We establish a loss liability for all products we do not expect to sell for which we have committed purchases from suppliers. Such loss liability was included in Other accrued liabilities on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. From time to time our suppliers procure unique complex components on our behalf. If these components do not meet specified technical criteria or are defective, we should not be obligated to purchase the materials. However, disputes may arise as a result and significant resources may be spent resolving such disputes. We lease office space, cars, distribution centers and equipment under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through December 2026. The terms of certain of our facility leases provide for rental payments on a graduated scale. Lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Refer to Note 13. Leases , in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for details on our leases. The amounts presented are consistent with contractual terms and are not expected to differ significantly, unless a substantial change in our headcount needs requires us to exit an office facility early or expand our occupied space. As of March 29, 2020, we had long term, non-cancellable purchase commitments of $17.4 million pertaining to non-trade activities. As of March 29, 2020, we had an estimated long-term liability of $6.5 million related to a one-time transaction tax that resulted from the passage of the Tax Act. As of March 29, 2020, we had $11.4 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits and related interest and penalties. The timing of any payments that could result from these unrecognized tax benefits will depend upon a number of factors. The unrecognized tax benefits have been excluded from the contractual obligations table because reasonable estimates cannot be made of whether, or when, any cash payments for such items might occur. The possible reduction in liabilities for uncertain tax positions in multiple jurisdictions that may impact the statements of operations in the next 12 months is approximately $0.6 million, excluding the interest, penalties and the effect of any related deferred tax assets or liabilities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 29, 2020, we did not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. 45 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we make assumptions, judgments and estimates that can have a significant impact on our revenue, operating income and net income, as well as on the value of certain assets and liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We base these estimates on historical and anticipated results, trends and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. As of the date of issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements, we are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require us to update our estimates, judgments or revise the carrying value of our assets or liabilities. These estimates may change, as new events occur and additional information is obtained, and are recognized in the condensed consolidated financial statements as soon as they become known. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates under different assumptions and conditions. For a complete description of what we believe to be the critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. Refer to Note 1. The Company and Basis of Presentation and Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , in the Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, for the risks and uncertainties related to the COVID-19 pandemic and the updated accounting policy on credit losses upon the adoption of ASU 2016-13, "Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326)" as of January 1, 2020, respectively. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in Notes to Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of Part I of this Report on Form 10-Q, for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on financial condition and results of operations, which are hereby incorporated by reference.