Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 below, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future financial position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A below, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including, among other things: future demand for our products may be lower than anticipated; consumers may choose not to adopt our new product offerings or adopt competing products; the actual price, performance and ease of use of our products may not meet the price, performance and ease of use requirements of consumers; our dependence on certain significant customers; our reliance on a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers; new cyber threats may challenge the effectiveness or threaten the security of our products; and our business strategies and development plans may not be successful. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, such information may be limited or incomplete, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in this Form 10-K. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of some of the risks and uncertainties as of the date of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Risks Related to our Business, Industry and Operations If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, we may be unable to sell or timely deliver our products, and our gross margin could decrease. We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources. If we do not effectively manage our sales channel inventory and product mix, we may incur costs associated with excess inventory, or lose sales from having too few products. We depend on a limited number of third-party manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. We rely on a limited number of traditional and online retailers, wholesale distributors and service provider customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and our net revenue could decline if they refuse to pay our requested prices or reduce their level of purchases, if there are unforeseen disruptions in their businesses, or if there is significant consolidation in our customer base that results in fewer customers for our products. The COVID-19 pandemic could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and to be competitive we may be required to lower our prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses. If we fail to continue to introduce or acquire new products and services that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively. We depend substantially on our sales channels, and our failure to maintain and expand our sales channels would result in lower sales and reduced net revenue. 1 Table of Contents Changes in trade policy in the United States and other countries, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant customers, and a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could negatively affect our revenue. If we fail to overcome the challenges associated with managing our broadband service provider sales channel, our net revenue and gross profit will be negatively impacted. The average selling prices of our products typically decrease rapidly over the sales cycle of the product, which may negatively affect our net revenue and gross margins. Our sales and operations in international markets expose us to operational, financial and regulatory risks. As part of growing our business, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions. If we fail to successfully select, execute or integrate our acquisitions, then our business and operating results could be harmed and our stock price could decline. We invest in companies, but may not realize a return on our investments. Expansion of our operations and infrastructure may strain our operations and increase our operating expenses. Risks Related to Our Products, Technology and Intellectual Property Product security vulnerabilities, system security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our products, services, internal operations or information technology systems, and any such disruption could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. We rely upon third parties for technology that is critical to our products, and if we are unable to continue to use this technology and future technology, our ability to develop, sell, maintain and support technologically innovative products would be limited. We have been and will be investing increased additional in-house resources on software research and development, which could disrupt our ongoing business and present distinct risks from our historically hardware-centric business. If our products contain defects or errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses, experience product returns and lost sales, experience product recalls, suffer damage to our brand and reputation, and be subject to product liability or other claims. Our user growth, engagement, and monetization of our subscription services on mobile devices depend upon effective operation with mobile operating systems, networks, technologies, products, and standards that we do not control. If we are unable to secure and protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed. Financial, Legal, Regulatory and Tax Compliance Risks Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our future profitability. We are currently involved in numerous litigation matters and may in the future become involved in additional litigation. We are exposed to adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations. We could incur significant liability if the distribution of Arlo shares to our stockholders is determined to be a taxable transaction. We must comply with indirect tax laws in multiple jurisdictions, as well as complex customs duty regimes worldwide. Audits of our compliance with these rules may result in additional liabilities for taxes, duties, interest and penalties related to our international operations which would reduce our profitability. We are subject to, and must remain in compliance with, numerous laws and governmental regulations. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets. If our goodwill and intangible assets become impaired we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. General Risk Factors Global economic conditions could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. If we lose the services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick C.S. Lo, or our other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. 2 Table of Contents Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters, sudden changes in trade and immigration policies, and other circumstances could materially adversely affect us. We are required to evaluate our internal controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and any adverse results from such evaluation, including restatements of our issued financial statements, could impact investor confidence in the reliability of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in Forward-Looking Statements in MD&A. However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face. Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position, business, reputation, results of operations, capital position or financial condition, including by materially increasing our expenses or decreasing our revenues, which could result in material losses. Item 1. Business General We are a global company that turns ideas into innovative, high-performance and premium networking products that connect people, power businesses and service providers, and advance the way people live. We operate and report in two segments: Connected Home, and Small and Medium Business (SMB). The Connected Home segment focuses on consumers and provides high-performance, dependable and easy-to-use WiFi internet networking solutions such as WiFi 6 and WiFi 6E Tri-band and Quad-band mesh systems, routers, 4G/5G mobile products, smart devices such as Meural digital canvasses, and subscription services that provide consumers a range of value- added benefits focused on performance, security, privacy and premium support . The SMB segment focuses on small and medium sized businesses and provides solutions for business networking, wireless local area network (LAN), audio and video over Ethernet for Pro AV applications , security, and remote management providing enterprise-class functionality at an affordable price. We conduct business across three geographic territories: Americas; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia Pacific (APAC). In the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, we generated net revenue of $1.17 billion, $1.26 billion, and $998.8 million, respectively. COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic continues to have widespread, rapidly evolving and unpredictable impacts on global economies, supply chains, workforce participation, inflation, and has created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about a considerable shift in our business while increasing uncertainty. We have experienced an increase in demand for our products relative to pre-pandemic levels as consumers and businesses seek flexible networking solutions for their day-to-day needs. As a result of the ongoing pandemic, our supply chain partners are limited by production capacity, and constrained by material availability, factory uptime and freight capacity, resulting in elongated lead times for some of our key components, impeding our ability to accurately forecast and to capitalize fully on end market demand. As the pandemic continues to disrupt the global business environment, it impacts our ability to fulfill SMB product demand and limits the availability of certain Connected Home products. In 2021, we experienced meaningful increases in costs for sea freight transportation, as well as costs of materials and components for our products. We expect these costs to remain elevated for the foreseeable future, with sea freight transportation costs starting to come down from current highs in the second half of 2022. 3 Table of Contents Markets Our mission is to be the innovative leader in connecting the world to the internet by providing advanced, high-performance and premium networking technologies and internet-connected products for consumers, businesses and service providers. There are a number of factors that are driving todays demand for products within these markets. T he ever-growing number of internet-connected devices, such as smart phones, TVs, laptops, tablets, smart-home devices, and other Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices has increased the need for more robust networking solutions. As consumer behavior shifts to more content and video streaming, online gaming, online shopping, work-, fitness- and schooling-from-home, the demand for high-performance, dependable and secure WiFi continues to increase. Rising cyber security threats and attacks continue to propel the need for devices connected to the network to be free from vulnerability, leading to an increase in the demand for our security and privacy services. The demand for more convenience, greater speed, expanded coverage range, security and reliability of an in-home WiFi network, as well as mobile cellular networks, have become a greater priority for households and businesses. Over the last decade, technology transformation has driven a need for constant connectivity. Consumers, small businesses and service providers demand networking products, incorporating the latest technology, that fit their specific needs and budgets. In particular, high income consumers with large numbers of connected devices and fast broadband subscriptions are investing in premium home WiFi solutions, such as our Orbi WiFi 6 and WiFi 6E Tri-band and Quad-band Mesh products. While there is always a need for point solutions that enhance or extend the functionality provided by internet service providers, there is also a growing demand for premium WiFi devices and networks that combine the newest WiFi standards with elegant design and a seamless app experience to accommodate the end-to-end networking needs of homes that are becoming increasingly smarter. End users desiring faster WiFi speeds, capacity for more devices and lower latency than ever before also often lack the technical skills or resources to fully realize these capabilities, making plug and play setup and ease of use priorities. Consumers and businesses also prefer the convenience of obtaining networking solutions from a single company and a positive customer experience has shown to produce brand loyalty. We recognize that customers see reliability, usability, security and performance as key factors when purchasing products and services. To provide desirable products and services at attractive prices, we focus on the unique requirements of these markets, and exercise strong operational discipline. Sales Channels We sell our products through multiple sales channels worldwide, including wholesale distributors, traditional and online retailers, direct market resellers (DMRs), value-added resellers (VARs), broadband service providers and through our direct online store at www.netgear.com . Wholesale Distributors. Our distribution channel supplies our products to retailers, e-commerce resellers, DMRs, VARs and broadband service providers. We sell directly to our distributors, the largest of which are Ingram Micro, Inc., TD Synnex, and D&H Distributing Company. Retailers. Our retail channel primarily supplies products that are sold into the consumer market. However, increasingly we are seeing products designed for small and medium-sized businesses move through these channels. We sell directly to, or enter into consignment arrangements with, a number of our traditional retailers, increasingly leveraging their online presence in addition to their in-store space and online retailers. The remaining traditional retailers, as well as our online retailers, are fulfilled through wholesale distributors. We work directly with our retail channels on market development activities, such as co-advertising, online promotions and video demonstrations, instant rebate programs, event sponsorship and sales associate training. Our largest retailers include Amazon.com, Inc., Best Buy Co., Inc., Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Costco Wholesale and their respective affiliates. DMRs and VARs. We sell into the business marketplace through an extensive network of DMRs and VARs. Our DMRs include companies such as CDW Corporation and Insight Corporation. VARs include our network of registered NETGEAR Solution Partners. DMRs and VARs may receive sales incentives, marketing support and other program benefits from us. Our DMRs and VARs generally purchase our products through our wholesale distributors. Broadband Service Providers. We also supply directly to broadband service providers in the United States and internationally providing DSL, WiFi and 4G/5G mobile broadband products. Service providers supply our products to their business and home subscribers. Our largest broadband service providers include AT&T and Telstra. 4 Table of Contents Direct Online Store. We sell directly online at www.netgear.com in the United States and internationally to consumers and businesses. Through our direct online store, we provide high-performance and premium networking and internet connected products and subscription services, some of which are only available at www.netgear.com . The largest portion of our net revenues was derived from the Americas, representing approximately 67% and 72% of net revenue in the years ended December 31, 2021, and 2020, respectively. We have continuously committed resources to our international operations and sales channels. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of risks related to international operations such as macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions, geopolitical instability, governmental regulations, preference for locally branded products, exchange rate fluctuations, increased difficulty in managing inventory, challenges of staffing and managing foreign operations, the effect of international sales on our tax structure, and changes in local tax laws. For further information regarding these risks, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors, of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For information regarding our significant customers, refer to Note 11, Segment Information, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Product Offerings Our products are designed to simplify and improve peoples lives. Our goal is to enable people to collaborate and connect to a world of information and entertainment at or outside of the home . We are dedicated to delivering innovative and advanced connected solutions ranging from easy-to-use premium WiFi solutions, performance gaming routers to enhance console and online game play, security and support services to protect and enhance home networks, to switching and wireless solutions to augment business networks and audio and video over Ethernet for Pro AV applications. Our products are built on a variety of technologies such as wireless (WiFi and 4G/5G mobile), Ethernet and powerline, with a focus on reliability and ease-of-use. Our product line consists of devices that create and extend wired and wireless networks, devices that connect to the network, such as smart digital canvasses, as well as services that complement and enhance our product line offerings . These products are available in multiple configurations to address the changing needs of our customers in each geographic region in which our products are sold. Smart Home / Connected Home / Broadband Access. Includes products that create and extend wired and wireless networks in homes and small businesses to connect devices to the internet, enable connection to broadband networks and a suite of value-added services enhancing such networks. These products are sold primarily via traditional retailers, increasingly leveraging their online presence, in addition to their brick-and-mortar stores, our direct online store and service provider channels and include: WiFi routers and home WiFi Mesh Systems, which create a local area network (LAN) for home or office computer, mobile and smart devices to connect and share a broadband internet connection; Broadband modems, which are devices that convert the broadband signals into Ethernet data that feeds Internet into homes and offices. We provide modems that connect to DOCSIS 3.x, xDSL, and 4G/5G mobile; WiFi Gateways, which are WiFi routers with an integrated broadband modem, for broadband Internet access; WiFi Hotspots, which create mobile WiFi Internet access that utilizes 4G/5G mobile and 5G data networks for use on the go, and at home in place of traditional wired broadband Internet access; WiFi range extenders, which extend the range of an existing WiFi network to eliminate WiFi dead spots; Value-added service offerings such as security and privacy, technical support, and parental controls for consumers; Powerline adapters, which extend wired and WiFi Internet connections to any AC outlet using existing electrical wiring; WiFi network adapters, which enable computing devices to be connected to the network via WiFi; 5 Table of Contents Digital Canvasses, which enable users to display digital art and photos, including non-fungible token (NFT) artwork. Small and Medium business solutions. These products and services are sold into the small and medium business marketplace through an extensive network of DMRs and VARs, and increasingly through brick-and-mortar retail and e-commerce channels and include: Ethernet switches, which are multiple port devices used to network computing devices and peripherals via Ethernet wiring; Pro AV Solutions, which includes high-performance flexible switches that are engineered for AV over IP; Enterprise grade WiFi mesh systems as well as Cloud managed or standalone access points, which are devices used to manage and control WiFi on a campus, a facility, or an office providing WiFi connections to smart phones, tablets, laptops and other computing devices; and Internet security appliances and NETGEAR Insight services, all of which provide a suite of networking solutions to small enterprise, education, hospitality and health markets through easy-to-use interfaces, providing capabilities such as firewalls and Virtual Private Networks (VPNs) and the ability for small businesses to deploy, monitor, manage and secure their networks easily and seamlessly. Our products and services are designed to meet the specific needs of the consumer, business and service provider markets. We tailor various elements of the software interface, product design, including component specification, physical characteristics such as casing, design and coloration, and specific user interface features to meet the needs of these markets. We also leverage many of our technological developments, high volume manufacturing, technical support and engineering infrastructure across our markets to maximize business efficiencies. In our Connected Home business, our core long-term strategy focuses on the premium and higher-margin segments of the market, where we demonstrate our highly differentiated technology leadership. Our products that target the business market are generally designed with an industrial appearance, including metal cases and, for some product categories, the ability to mount the product within standard data networking racks as well as unique mounting solutions for other uses. These products typically include higher port counts, higher data transfer rates and other performance characteristics designed to meet the needs of a modern business. For example, our business products provide data transfer rates up to ten gigabits per second to meet the higher capacity requirements. Our newest Power over Ethernet (PoE)++ switches, including cloud managed and unmanaged PoE switches, provide elevated power budgets and uninterrupted PoE++ power for businesses of all sizes to address the growing need for deployment of multiple PoE devices with more power, due to the widespread adoption of IP communication, security cameras, WiFi access points, proximity sensors, and various other new applications. Some of these products are also designed to support transmission modes such as fiber optic cabling, which is common in more sophisticated business environments. The COVID-19 pandemic has seen a shift in the demand and use cases for SMB products as more small businesses are now running out of homes. Products like our Orbi Pro with VLAN management, and our access points coupled with plug and play PoE VLAN switches are simple and cost-effective solutions that enable network segregation in homes between business and personal use. This shift has contributed to growing the market for lower port count switches and our SMB wireless offerings. In addition, we continue to see a shift from traditional AV applications utilizing HDMI technology to Ethernet switching driven by a transition from the 1080p to 4K to 8K video, and broadcast moving towards multicast streaming. We continue to develop and pursue avenues like health, personal fitness and sports industries for deployment of our next generation AV systems that transport audio and video signals over Ethernet. Security requirements within our products for business broadband access include firewall and VPN capabilities that allow for secure interactions between remote offices and business headquarter locations over the internet. Our connectivity product offerings for the business market include enhanced security and remote configurability often required in a business setting. Our vision for the home network is about intelligently controlling and monitoring all devices connected to the home network at all times, thus creating a Smart Environment. Our Connected Home business continues to make progress on our core long-term strategy of focusing on the premium and higher-margin segments of the market, where we demonstrate highly differentiated technology. Our focus is to continue to introduce new products and services into growth areas that form the basis of Smart Homes, such as: the fastest WiFi standards with broadest coverage via latest technology (802.11ax) WiFi routers and home WiFi systems; high speed DOCSIS 3.1, xDSL and fiber gateways with 6 Table of Contents more integrated functions; 5G mobile gateways and mobile hotspots; and Digital Canvasses. We continue to announce and introduce new products in these key markets. Our vision for the business network is to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and supportability of the hybrid cloud access network. We believe small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to move into cloud-based applications, such as: Salesforce.com, Ring Central, Zoom video conferencing, SAP SuccessFactors, Workday, and others. In addition, we believe these enterprises will move into utility-like on-demand computing power supplied by third-party data centers. With the increased adoption of hybrid and fully remote work environments, along with increases in new businesses being established at home, we see a need for greater networking capabilities as workforces become more dispersed. We believe that the need for cost efficient and easy-to-use video surveillance by small businesses and corporate offices will continue to grow and fuel the growth of our PoE(+) market, with its ability to power 4K cameras. These trends will place a greater demand on business networks. To meet this demand, we are introducing next-generation technology, such as: PoE switches, Multi-gigabit Ethernet switches, WiFi mesh systems, high capacity local and remote unified storage, small to medium capacity campus wireless LAN, audio and video over Ethernet for Pro AV applications, and security and privacy appliances. In addition, our Insight line of cloud-connected networking devices can be managed remotely and securely via mobile Apps or Browser interfaces, providing continuous monitoring and instantaneous fault notification. Competition The consumer, business and service provider markets are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Our principal competitors include: within the consumer markets, companies such as ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Devolo, D-Link, Eero (owned by Amazon), Linksys (owned by Foxconn), Minim (owned by Motorola), Google WiFi, Samsung, Synology, and TP- Link; within the business markets, companies such as Allied Telesys, Barracuda, Buffalo, Cisco Systems, Dell, D-Link, Fortinet, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, Palo Alto Networks, QNAP Systems, SonicWall, Synology, TP- Link, Ubiquiti, and WatchGuard; and within the service provider markets, companies such as Actiontec, Airties, Arcadyan, ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Compal Broadband, D-Link, Eero (owned by Amazon), Franklin, Google, Hitron, Huawei, Inseego, Nokia, Plume, Sagem, Sercomm, SMC Networks, TechniColor, TP-Link, Ubee, ZTE and ZyXEL. Other competitors include numerous local vendors such as Xiaomi in China, AVM in Germany and Buffalo in Japan. Our potential competitors include other consumer electronics vendors, including Apple, Lifelock, LG Electronics, McAfee, Microsoft, Panasonic, Sony, Toshiba and Vizio, who could integrate networking and streaming capabilities into their line of products, such as televisions, set top boxes and gaming consoles, and our channel customers who may decide to offer self-branded networking products. We also face competition from service providers who may bundle a free networking device with their broadband service offering, including Extreme Networks and Luxul, which would reduce our sales if we were not the supplier of choice to those service providers. In the service provider space, we also face significant and increased competition from original design manufacturers (ODMs) and contract manufacturers (CMs) who are selling and attempting to sell their products directly to service providers around the world. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. As a result, they may have more advanced technology, larger distribution channels, stronger brand names, better customer service and access to more customers than we do. For example, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise has significant brand name recognition and has an advertising presence substantially greater than ours. Similarly, Cisco Systems is well recognized as a leader in providing networking products to businesses, while Google and Amazon compete in the consumer WiFi product market, and both have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Several of our competitors, such as TP-Link, offer a range of products that directly compete with most of our product offerings. Several of our other competitors compete in a more limited manner. For example, Dell sells networking products primarily targeted at larger businesses or enterprises while Google and Amazon primarily only sell WiFi mesh systems. The competitive environment in which we operate changes rapidly due to technological reasons and other factors outside of our control, 7 Table of Contents such as new entrants to the market and the ability of market participants to ad a pt to changing environments, such as impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Other companies with significant resources could also become direct competitors, either through acquiring a competitor or through internal efforts. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the consumer, business and service provider markets for networking products include product breadth, price points, size and scope of the sales channel, brand name, timeliness of new product introductions, product availability, performance, features, functionality and reliability, ease-of-installation, maintenance and use, security and privacy, and customer service and support. We believe our products are competitive in these markets based on these factors. To remain competitive, we believe we must continue to aggressively invest resources in developing new products and subscription services, enhancing our current products, expanding our sales channels including our direct to consumer capabilities, increasing engagement with our customers and maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide. Our investments reflect our enhanced focus on the security of our products and systems, as the threat of cyber-attacks and exploitation of potential security vulnerabilities in our industry is on the rise and is increasingly a significant consumer concern. Research and Development Our success depends on our ability to develop products that meet changing user needs and to anticipate and proactively respond to evolving technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. Accordingly, we have made investments in our research and development department in order to effectively evaluate existing and new third-party technologies, develop existing and new in-house technologies, and develop and test new products and services. Our research and development employees work closely with our technology and manufacturing partners to bring high quality new products and services to market in a timely and cost-efficient manner. We identify, qualify and create new technologies to develop products using one or both of the methodologies described below. Under both ODM and In-House development, we develop portions of the software on some products, including embedded firmware or components of firmware, mobile applications, and cloud software. ODM. Under the ODM methodology, we define the product concept and specifications and recommend the technology selection. We then coordinate with our technology suppliers as they develop the product, meeting our specifications, while our internal software engineering team typically works with our service partners to develop the software services that run on these devices. On certain new products, one or more subsystems of the design can be done in-house and then integrated with the remaining design pieces from the ODM. Once prototypes are completed, we work with our partners to complete the debugging and systems integration and testing. After completion of the final tests, agency approvals and product documentation, the product is released for production and shipment. In-House Development. Under the in-house development model, one or more subsystems of the product are designed and developed utilizing the NETGEAR engineering team. Under this model, some of the primary technology is developed in-house. We then work closely with either an ODM or a Joint Development Manufacturer (JDM) to complete the development of the entire design, perform the necessary testing, and obtain regulatory approvals before the product is released for production and shipment. Manufacturing Our primary manufacturers are Cloud Network Technology (more commonly known as Hon Hai Precision or Foxconn Corporation), Delta Electronics Incorporated, Wistron NeWeb Corporation, and Pegatron Corporation, all of which are headquartered in Taiwan. We also manufacture in Haiphong, Vietnam at a facility owned by Shenzhen Gongjin Electronics Co., Ltd. (more commonly known as T&W), which is headquartered in China. We manufacture US bound products in Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia and Taiwan. We distribute our manufacturing among a limited number of key suppliers and seek to avoid excessive concentration with any one single supplier. Currently, however, we have a concentration among two of our major suppliers in South East Asia that we expect will continue through fiscal year 2022 . Any disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics and political, social and economic instability would affect the ability of our manufacturers to manufacture our products. If our manufacturing or warehousing facilities are disrupted or destroyed, we would not have readily available alternatives for manufacturing our products and our business would be significantly impacted. In addition to their responsibility for the manufacturing of our 8 Table of Contents products, our manufacturers typically purchase all necessary parts and materials to produce finished goods. To maintain quality standards for our suppliers, in July 2021 we established our own product quality organization based in Singapore and Taiwan. The organization is re sponsible for auditing and inspecting product quality on the premises of our ODMs . We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources. These include many of the semiconductors used in our products, which are designed specifically for the products and obtained from sole source suppliers on a purchase order basis like switching fabric semiconductors used in our Ethernet switches and internet gateway products; wireless local area network chipsets used in our wireless products and mobile network chipsets which are used in our wireless gateways and hotspots. We also have limited sources for components including connector jacks, plastic casings and physical layer transceivers. Our third-party manufacturers generally purchase these components on our behalf on a purchase order basis. If these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements or component lead times deviate from expectations, our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries would be harmed and we may lose sales and experience increased costs to procure supply. For instance, since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced supply shortages for core networking semiconductor components, and additionally power IC and voltage regulator chipsets due to high demand, resulting in elongated manufacturing timelines. We currently outsource warehousing and distribution logistics to four main third-party providers who are responsible for warehousing, distribution logistics and order fulfillment. In addition, these parties are also responsible for some configuration and re-packaging of our products including bundling components to form kits, inserting appropriate documentation, disk drive configuration, and adding power adapters. APL Logistics Americas, Ltd. in City of Industry, California serves the Americas region, Kerry Logistics Ltd. in Singapore, serves the Asia Pacific region, DSV Solutions B.V. Netherlands serves the EMEA region, and Likewize Logistics Pty Ltd. in Melbourne, VIC, Australia serves Australia and New Zealand. Sales and Marketing We work directly with our customers on market development activities, such as co-advertising, online promotions and video demonstrations, live and virtual event sponsorships and sales associate training. We also participate in major industry trade shows and marketing events. Our marketing department is comprised of our channel marketing, product marketing and corporate marketing groups. Our channel marketing team focuses on working with the sales teams to maximize our participation in channel partner marketing activities and merchandise our products both online and in store. Our product marketing group focuses on product and service strategy, product and service development roadmaps, the new product introduction process, product lifecycle management, demand assessment and competitive analysis. The group works closely with our sales and research and development groups to align our product development roadmap to meet customer technology demands from a strategic perspective. The group also ensures that product and services development activities, product and services launches, and ongoing demand and supply planning for our products occur in a well-managed, timely basis in coordination with our development, manufacturing, and sales groups, as well as our ODM and sales channel partners. Our corporate marketing group is responsible for defining and building our corporate brand, supporting the business units with creative marketing strategies and driving traffic to our online and in-app platforms. The group focuses on defining our brand promise and marketing messages on a worldwide basis. This group is also responsible for driving awareness and demand for NETGEAR products through paid, earned and owned channels to reach and acquire new customers. Marketing tactics include driving the social media and online marketing strategy, public relations, installed base marketing programs, community engagement programs, sponsorships and events, and corporate websites worldwide, as well as creative production for all product categories. We conduct most of our international sales and marketing operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries, which operate via sales and marketing subsidiaries and branch offices worldwide. 9 Table of Contents Customer Support We design our products with ease-of-use top of mind. We respond globally to customer inquiries through a variety of channels including phone, chat, community, social media, and email. Customers can also get self-help service through the comprehensive knowledgebase and the user forums on our website. Customer support is provided through a combination of a limited number of permanent employees and use of subcontracted, out-sourced resources. Our permanent employees design our technical support model and process and are responsible for training and managing our outsourced sub-contractors. They also handle escalations from the outsourced resources. We utilize the information gained from customers by our customer support organization to enhance our product offerings, including further simplifying the installation process. Intellectual Property We believe that our continued success will depend primarily on the technical expertise, speed of technology implementation, creative skills and management abilities of our officers and key employees, plus ownership of a limited but important set of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and patents. We primarily rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and patent laws, nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants and suppliers and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. We hold approximately 234 issued United States patents that expire between years 2022 and 2040 and 40 foreign patents that expire between 2022 and 2036. In addition, we currently have approximately 21 pending United States and foreign patent applications related to technology and products offered by us. We also rely on third-party licensors for patented hardware and software license rights in technology that are incorporated into and are necessary for the operation and functionality of our products. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies. We have trade secret rights for our products, consisting mainly of product design, technical product documentation and software. We also own, or have applied for registration of trademarks, in connection with our products in the United States and internationally, including NETGEAR, NETGEAR Armor, NETGEAR Insight, NPG, NPG logo, Orbi, Nighthawk, FASTLANE3, Meural, Trueart, Digital Canvas, and ProSafe. We have registered a number of internet domain names that we use for electronic interaction with our customers including dissemination of product information, marketing programs, product registration, sales activities, and other commercial uses. Seasonal Business We have historically experienced increased net sales in our third and fourth fiscal quarters as compared to the first and second quarters in our fiscal year due to seasonal demand from consumer markets primarily relating to the beginning of the school year and the holiday season. This pronounced seasonality has been previously offset by irregular and significant purchases from customers in other markets, such as the service provider market. However, we did not experience such seasonality in 2021 as we continued to see increased demand in the first half of 2021 directly tied to the COVID-19 pandemic which normalized in the second half of 2021. We anticipate the pattern of seasonality experienced historically to resume in 2022, due to the aforementioned consumer trends, as well as an expected improvement in supply of our SMB products. Governmental Regulations Environmental Laws Our products and manufacturing process are subject to numerous governmental regulations, which cover both the use of various materials as well as environmental concerns. Environmental issues such as pollution and climate change have had significant legislative and regulatory effects on a global basis, and there are expected to be additional changes to the regulations in these areas. These changes could directly increase the cost of energy, which may have an impact on the way we manufacture products or utilize energy to produce our products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of raw materials we use in our products and the cost of compliance. Other regulations in the environmental area may require us to continue to monitor and ensure proper disposal or recycling of our products. To the best of our knowledge, we maintain compliance with all current 10 Table of Contents government regulations concerning our production processes for all locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is a complex process that requires continual monitoring of regulations and compliance effort s to ensure that we , and our suppliers , are in compliance with all existing regulations . Other Regulations As a company with global operations, we are subject to complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, including trade regulations, tariffs, import and export regulations, anti-bribery and corruption laws, antitrust or competition laws, data privacy laws, such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR), and environmental regulations, among others. We have policies and procedures in place to promote compliance with these laws and regulations. To date, our compliance actions and costs relating to these laws, rules and regulations have not resulted in a material cost or effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Government regulations are subject to change, and accordingly we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements or whether our compliance with such regulations will materially impact our business in the future. For further discussion of how government regulations may affect our business, see the related discussion in Risk Factors Financial, Legal, Regulatory and Tax Compliance Risks. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, we had 771 full-time employees, with 259 in sales, marketing and technical support, 280 in research and development, 96 in operations, and 136 in finance, information systems and administration. We also utilize a number of temporary staff to supplement our workforce. We have never had a work stoppage among our employees, no personnel are represented under collective bargaining agreements, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Culture Our mission to connect the world using innovative networking products cannot be achieved without employing imaginative, talented and committed individuals from around the world. We strive to foster a diverse and inclusive environment that both attracts and retains team members who align with our core values of: achievement, simplicity, people, innovation, results, and ethics. We strive to create a respectful work environment characterized by mutual trust and the absence of intimidation, oppression, discrimination and exploitation, and we believe that n urturing this type of environment allows for the opportunity to turn creative ideas into innovative products. Recruitment and Retention We recognize that attracting, motivating and retaining talent at all levels is vital to continuing our success. By improving employee retention and engagement, we also improve our ability to support our customers and protect the long-term interests of our stakeholders and stockholders. We invest in our employees through high-quality benefits and various health and wellness initiatives, and offer competitive compensation packages, ensuring fairness in internal compensation practices. We conduct employee engagement surveys every two years and on an ad hoc basis in order to assess ways in which we can improve employee satisfaction, and then incorporate feedback from these surveys into our culture and operations. To further engage and incentivize our workforce, we offer a wide range of programs and avenues for support, motivation, and professional recognition. We utilize both instructor-led training and online learning to provide training courses to ensure the professional development of our employees. We offer compelling global incentives to reinforce our performance-driven culture and attract and reward leading talent. We offer global competitive and meaningful total rewards programs that meet the diverse needs of our employees, while also reflecting local market practices. Our total rewards approach is designed to deliver cash, equity, and benefit programs that are competitive with those offered by comparable companies in the technology industry and reflect anticipated local market demands and evolving business needs. Other than the base salary program, all of our cash and equity programs are dependent upon the achievement of individual and company performance. In addition 11 Table of Contents to competitive salaries and bonuses, we grant equity-based compensation to a significant portion of our employees. Equity serves as a key component in attracting, retaining, and motivating our employees. We also provide the opportunity for equity ownership through our employee stock purchase plan. We provide competitive benefits that include retirement planning, health care, parental leave, flexible time away, and appreciation events for employees. In addition, we offer benefits to support our employees physical and mental health. Diversity and Inclusion We believe that our employee population should be reflective of the communities where we live and serve, and w e are committed to promoting and cultivating an inclusive and diverse culture that welcomes and celebrates everyone without bias . A diverse environment representing a broad spectrum of backgrounds and cultures and where everyone feels like they belong fosters innovative ideas and best-in-class products. We strive to create the most innovative products for our customers, and we recognize that it takes true diversity and inclusion to unleash the power of our fullest potential. We work every day to go beyond accepting diversity - we celebrate it, we support it, and we cultivate it by offering ongoing development programs, including CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion and Employee Resource Groups (ERG) for Black employees and women. We demonstrate diversity, equity, and inclusion at the highest levels of our company. As of December 31, 2021, fifty percent (50%) of our independent directors are female, and approximately 55% of our executive management team self-identify as diverse, in terms of race, ethnicity or gender. In addition, women represented approximately 23% in technical positions worldwide and approximately 35% in leadership roles worldwide. COVID-19 response In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, we implemented significant changes that we determined were in the best interest of our employees, as well as the communities in which we operate, in compliance with government regulations. This includes that during the first quarter of 2020, we transitioned to have the vast majority of our employees work from home whenever possible and continue to do so, while implementing additional safety measures for employees continuing critical on-site work, such as engineering. The flexible work experiences have enabled our teams to remain connected with each other and with our customers while maintaining and enhancing productivity, operational excellence and innovation. We provided additional benefits to employees including a wellbeing allowance and pandemic time off. Business ethics Ethics are deeply embedded in our values and business processes. Our Code of Ethics serves as the foundation for our corporate governance policy and guides how we conduct business every day, both internally and with our partners. We regularly convey our commitment to ethics and integrity in employee communications, in our everyday actions and in processes and controls. We conduct presentations on our commitment to integrity and business ethics at all new hire training sessions and at each quarterly all hands meeting. We conduct annual trainings related to global ethical behavior and compliance with applicable laws, diversity and inclusion, anti-corruption and anti-bribery regulations, along with enforcement and other dimensions of ethical conduct. We also maintain an ethics-related hotline, through which individuals can anonymously raise concerns they have about business behavior they do not feel comfortable discussing personally with managers or human resources personnel. We also are committed to responsible manufacturing of our products and responsible sourcing of materials. We require our suppliers to share in this commitment and have established the Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our expectations of our suppliers in conducting business in a legal, ethical, and responsible manner. Community Involvement We believe in giving back to communities where we live and work. We encourage our employees to participate in community service activities and provide time off for them to do so. In addition, we donate both time and resources to non-profit organizations around the world. 12 Table of Contents Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the Securities Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our website address is www.netgear.com . Our website provides a link to our SEC filings, which are available free of charge on the same day such filings are made. The specific location on the website where these reports can be found is http://investor.netgear.com/sec.cfm. Our website also provides a link to Section 16 filings which are available free of charge on the same day as such filings are made. Information contained on these websites is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Information About Our Executive Officers The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of our executive officers as of February 11, 2022. Name Age Position Patrick C.S. Lo 65 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bryan D. Murray 47 Chief Financial Officer Heidi B. Cormack 47 Chief Marketing Officer Michael F. Falcon 65 Chief Operations Officer David J. Henry 49 President and General Manager of Connected Home Products and Services Andrew W. Kim 51 Chief Legal Officer Vikram Mehta 56 Senior Vice President, SMB Products and Services Mark G. Merrill 67 Chief Technology Officer Tamesa T. Rogers 48 Chief People Officer Michael A. Werdann 53 Chief Revenue Officer Martin D. Westhead 51 Chief Technology Officer, Software Patrick C.S. Lo is our co-founder and has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since March 2002. He previously served as interim general manager of our former retail business unit and as interim general manager of our former service provider business unit. Patrick founded NETGEAR with Mark G. Merrill with the singular vision of providing the appliances to enable everyone in the world to connect to the high speed Internet for information, communication, business transactions, education, and entertainment. From 1983 until 1995, Mr. Lo worked at Hewlett-Packard Company, where he served in various management positions in sales, technical support, product management, and marketing in the U.S. and Asia. Mr. Lo was named the Ernst & Young National Technology Entrepreneur of the Year in 2006. Mr. Lo received a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Brown University. Bryan D. Murray has served as our Chief Financial Officer since August 2018. He has been with NETGEAR since November 2001, serving in various management roles within the finance organization. Prior to assuming the role of CFO, he served as NETGEARs Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller since June 2011. Before joining NETGEAR in 2001, he worked in public accounting at Deloitte and Touche LLP. He holds a B.A. from the University of California, Santa Barbara, and is licensed as a Certified Public Accountant (inactive). Heidi B. Cormack has served as our Chief Marketing Officer since July 2021. She has been with NETGEAR since July 2009, serving in various management roles within the marketing organization. Prior to assuming the role of Chief Marketing Officer, Ms. Cormack served as NETGEARs Senior Vice President of Global Marketing, Vice President of Corporate Marketing, and as our Director of Regional Marketing prior to that. Before joining NETGEAR, Ms. Cormack held positions at Virgin Mobile (Australia) PTY Limited, Red Bull Gmbh and Sony Computer Entertainment, Inc. in various marketing roles and completed business studies at the Sunshine Coast Business Academy in Australia. Michael F. Falcon has served as our Chief Operations Officer since November 2017. Previously, Mr. Falcon served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Operations and Support from January 2009 to November 2017, Senior Vice President of Operations from March 2006 to January 2009, and as our Vice President of Operations from November 2002 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Falcon was at Quantum Corporation, where he served as Vice President of Operations and Supply Chain Management from September 1999 to November 2002, Meridian Data (acquired by Quantum Corporation), where he served as Vice President of Operations from April 1999 to September 1999, and Silicon Valley Group, where he served as Director of Operations, Strategic Planning and Supply Chain 13 Table of Contents Management from February 1989 to April 1999. Prior to February 1989, Mr. Falcon served in management positions at SCI Systems, an electronics manufacturer, Xerox Imaging Systems, a provider of scanning and text recognition solutions, and Plantronics, Inc., a provider of lightweight communication headsets. Mr. Falcon received a B.A. degree in Economics with honors from the University of California, Santa Cruz and has completed coursework in the M.B.A. program at Santa Clara University. David J. Henry has served as our President and General Manager of Connected Home Products and Services since July 2021. He has been with NETGEAR since July 2004, most recently serving as our Senior Vice President of Connected Home Products and Services from January 2017 to July 2021, Senior Vice President of Home Networking from January 2016 to December 2016, Vice President of Product Management of our retail business unit from March 2011 to January 2016 and as our Senior Director of Product Marketing from October 2010 to March 2011. Prior to NETGEAR, Mr. Henry was a senior product manager for the high technology vertical application at Siebel Systems (acquired by Oracle Corporation). His professional experience also includes business process and information technology consulting with Deloitte Consulting. Mr. Henry received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering, with an emphasis on Signal Processing, from the University of Washington and an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Andrew W. Kim has served as our Chief Legal Officer since July 2021. Previously, Mr. Kim served as our Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary from July 2013 to July 2021, Vice President, Legal and Corporate Development and Corporate Secretary from October 2008 to July 2013, and as our Associate General Counsel from March 2008 to October 2008. Prior to joining NETGEAR, Mr. Kim served as Special Counsel in the Corporate and Securities Department of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, a private law firm, where he represented public and private technology companies in a wide range of matters, including mergers and acquisitions, debt and equity financing arrangements, securities law compliance and corporate governance from 2000 to 2003 and 2006 to 2008. In between his two terms at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, Mr. Kim served as Partner in the Business and Finance Department of the law firm Schwartz Cooper Chartered in Chicago, Illinois, and was an Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship at the Illinois Institute of Technology. Mr. Kim holds a J.D. from Cornell Law School, and received a B.A. degree in history from Yale University. Vikram Mehta has served as our Senior Vice President of SMB Products and Services since January 2020 and previously served as our consultant from July 2019 to December 2019. From May 2015 to January 2020, Mr. Mehta served as Managing Director of Pacific Venture Advisors, a technology and management consulting company. Prior to that, from October 2013 to April 2015, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer at Kaazing Corporation, a venture funded IoT software company. Prior to Kaazing and subsequent to IBMs acquisition of BLADE Network Technologies, Inc. (BLADE), Mr. Mehta served as Vice President of System Networking, STG, at IBM, from January 2011 to April 2013. Mr. Mehta served as Founder, President and Chief Executive Officer of BLADE, a networking company, from its inception in February 2006 to its acquisition by IBM in December 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Mehta worked at a number of technology companies, including Hewlett-Packard Company, where he served in various management positions in sales, marketing, and General Management in the U.S., Asia, and Australia, Nortel Networks, Alteon WebSystems (acquired by Nortel Networks) and Ensim Corporation (acquired by Ingram Micro). Mr. Mehta received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Birla Institute of Technology. Mark G. Merrill is our co-founder and has served as our Chief Technology Officer since March 2015. Previously, Mr. Merrill served as our Senior Vice President of Advanced Engineering from February 2013 to February 2015 and as our Chief Technology Officer from January 2003 to April 2013. From September 1999 to January 2003, he served as our Vice President of Engineering and as our Director of Engineering from September 1995 to September 1999. Mr. Merrill received both a B.S. degree and an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. Tamesa T. Rogers has served as our Chief People Officer since July 2021. Previously, Ms. Rogers served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources from July 2013 to July 2021, Vice President, Human Resources from January 2009 to July 2013, Director, Worldwide Human Resources from September 2006 to January 2009 and as our Senior Human Resources Manager from December 2003 to September 2006. From March 2000 to December 2003, Ms. Rogers worked at TriNet Employer Group, a professional employer organization, as a Human Resources Manager, providing HR consulting to technology companies throughout Silicon Valley. Prior to TriNet, Ms. Rogers served in various human resources functions in several Northern California companies. Ms. Rogers received a B.A. in Communication Studies from the University of California, Santa Barbara and an M.S. in Counseling from California State University, Hayward. 14 Table of Contents Michael A. Werdann has served as our Chief Revenue Officer since July 2021 . P reviously , Mr. Werdann served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales from October 2015 to July 2021, Worldwide Senior Vice President of Sales for Consumer Products from March 2015 to October 2015 and as our Vice President of Americas Sales from December 2003 to March 2015. Since joining us in 1998, Mr. Werdann has served as our United States Director of Sales, E-Commerce and DMR from December 2002 to December 2003 and as our Eastern Regional Sales Director from October 1998 to December 2002. Prior to joining us, Mr. Werdann worked for three years at Iomega Corporation, a computer hardware company, as a Sales Director for the value added reseller sector. Mr. Werdann holds a B.S. Degree in Communications from Seton Hall University. Martin D. Westhead, Ph.D. has served as our Chief Technology Officer of Software since December 2019. Prior to joining NETGEAR, Dr. Westhead was with Groupon from March 2014, where he became VP Engineering for Consumer Engineering team, responsible for the companys end-to-end customer experience on mobile and web. Prior to Groupon, Dr. Westhead led several software organizations, including at Ning, a social network startup and Avaya a telephony company, and founded two companies in network management tools. He lectured for Stanfords Continuing Studies Business Department. Dr. Westhead received his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the Department of AI and Computer Science in the University of Edinburgh, U.K. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not exhaustive of the risks that might affect our business. Other risks, including those we currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and financial condition and could result in a significant decline in our stock price. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. This section should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto, and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to our Business, Industry and Operations If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, we may be unable to sell or timely deliver our products, and our gross margin could decrease. We are highly dependent upon the transportation systems we use to ship our products, including surface and air freight. Our attempts to closely match our inventory levels to our product demand intensify the need for our transportation systems to function effectively and without delay. On a quarterly basis, our shipping volume also tends to steadily increase as the quarter progresses, which means that any disruption in our transportation network in the latter half of a quarter will likely have a more material effect on our business than at the beginning of a quarter. For example, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to significant limitations on the availability of key transportation resources and a significant increase in the cost of air and ocean freight. These developments negatively impact our profitability as we seek to transport an increased number of products from manufacturing locations in Asia to other markets around the world as quickly as possible. For example, the COVID-19 outbreak at the port of Yantian in Shenzhen, China in the second quarter of 2021 and Ningbo, China in the third quarter of 2021 had a disruptive impact on our transportation network, including schedule changes, blank sailings and shipping delays. Moreover, feeder vessels that move containers to key trans-Pacific terminal locations can be subject to similar impacts due to the timing of container transfers and vessel departure dates. The transportation network is subject to disruption or congestion from a variety of causes, including labor disputes or port strikes, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, pandemics like COVID-19 and congestion resulting from higher shipping volumes. For example, in late November 2020, a giant wave damaged a cargo vessel carrying eight containers of our products, causing a 4-month delay to our shipment which ultimately arrived in Southern California in late March 2021. The global effects of climate change can result in increased frequency and intensity of these natural disasters that could also disrupt our transportation network. Labor disputes among freight carriers and at ports of entry are common, and we expect labor unrest and its effects on shipping our products to be a continuing challenge for us. A port worker strike, work slow-down or other transportation disruption in the ports of Los Angeles or Long Beach, California, where we have a significant distribution center, could significantly disrupt our business. We have experienced such disruption at both ports, due to multiple factors brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic, such as supply and demand imbalance, a shortage of warehouse workers, truck drivers, and transport equipment (tractors and trailers), and other causes, and have suffered from heightened congestion, bottleneck and gridlock, leading to abnormally high transportation delays. This could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results for the first quarter of 2022 and, if significant disruptions along these lines continue, especially if they were to take place within the last few weeks of the quarter, this could lead to further significant disruptions in our business, delays in shipments, and revenue and profitability shortfalls, which would materially adversely affect our business and financial results. Our international freight is regularly subjected to inspection by governmental entities. If our delivery times increase unexpectedly for these or any other reasons, our ability to deliver products on time would be materially adversely affected and result in delayed or lost revenue as well as customer-imposed penalties. In addition, if increases in fuel prices occur, our transportation costs would likely increase. For example, the price of oil increased significantly in 2021. Similarly, supply chain disruptions such as those described in the preceding two paragraphs, may lead to an increase in transportation costs. For example, the cost of shipping our products by ocean freight have recently increased to at least eight times historical levels and will have a corresponding impact upon our profitability. Moreover, the cost of shipping our products by air freight is greater than other methods. From time to time in the past, we have shipped products using extensive air freight to meet unexpected spikes in demand, shifts in demand between product categories, to bring new product introductions to market quickly and to timely ship products previously ordered. If we rely more heavily upon air freight to deliver our products, our overall shipping costs will increase. Currently, just as ocean freight costs have increased due to the aforementioned supply chain disruptions, the cost of air freight has increased as well up to five times historical levels. This significant increase in the cost of both ocean 16 Table of Contents and air freight will continue to severely disrupt our business and harmed our operating results, and in particular, our profitability. We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources, and if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements or we are unable to properly manage our supply requirements with our third-party manufacturers, we may lose sales and experience increased component costs. Any shortage or delay in the supply of key product components, or any sudden, unforeseen price increase for such components, would harm our ability to meet product deliveries as scheduled or as budgeted. Many of the semiconductors used in our products are obtained from sole source suppliers on a purchase order basis. In addition, some components that are used in all our products are obtained from limited sources. We also obtain switching fabric semiconductors, which are used in our Ethernet switches and Internet gateway products, and WiFi chipsets, which are used in all of our wireless products, from a limited number of suppliers. We also use Cable Modem chipsets and Mobile chipsets in our cable and mobile products. Semiconductor suppliers have experienced and continue to experience component shortages themselves, such as with lead-frames and substrates used in manufacturing chipsets, which in turn adversely impact our ability to procure semiconductors from them in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner. For example, we are currently experiencing chipset shortages for some of our switching products from two of our semiconductor suppliers who do not have enough wafer capacity to satisfy our demand, and this shortage may continue for the next several quarters. Our third-party manufacturers generally purchase these components on our behalf on a purchase order basis, and we do not have any guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. If demand for a specific component increases, we may not be able to obtain an adequate number of that component in a timely manner, and prices to obtain such components may increase. In addition, if worldwide demand for the components increases significantly, the availability of these components could be limited and prices for such components may increase. For example, as the demand for automobiles has increased significantly over the last eighteen months, our supplier of micro controller units, which are used in both automobile production and our power over ethernet switches, has been forced to prioritize supply to the automobile industry, leaving us short of supply on these key components and affecting our ability to produce enough power over ethernet switches to meet our forecasted demand in a timely manner. This has resulted in our ODM Partners re-designing our products to accept second source components which provide more flexibility but increases the overall cost. In the third quarter of 2021, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company announced price increases of 10-20% on its chips, which has led to some of our chip suppliers correspondingly increasing the cost of their chips to us. Further, dependence on a sole source for certain key components of our products may allow such sole source suppliers to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. As a result, we may be left with little choice but to accept such higher prices or other fees for key components in order to ensure continuity of supply. For example, we are currently experiencing price increases with certain suppliers and manufacturing partners, and are negotiating price increases with certain other suppliers and manufacturing partners. This will affect our profitability or if we choose to push back against more onerous terms, could lead to inadequate supply, which could materially adversely affect our business. Our suppliers may also experience financial or other difficulties as a result of uncertain and weak worldwide economic conditions. Other factors which may affect our suppliers ability or willingness to supply components to us include internal management product allocation decisions or reorganizational issues, such as roll-out of new equipment which may delay or disrupt supply of previously forecasted components, or industry consolidation and divestitures, which may result in changed business and product priorities among certain suppliers. Also, many standardized components used broadly in electronic devices are manufactured in significant quantities in concentrated geographic regions, particularly in Greater China. As a result, protracted crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could lead to eventual shortages of necessary components sourced from impacted regions. Additionally, government intervention to curb the consumption of electricity in China could have a disruptive impact on component production and supply availability. It could be difficult, costly and time consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components, or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. In addition, difficulties in transitioning from an existing supplier to a new supplier could create delays in component availability that would have a significant impact on our ability to fulfill orders for our products. We provide our third-party manufacturers with a rolling forecast of demand and purchase orders, which they use to determine our material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components have long lead times, such as WiFi chipsets, switching fabric chips, physical layer transceivers, and logic, power, analog and RF chipsets. If our forecasts are not timely provided or are less than our actual requirements, our third-party manufacturers may be unable to manufacture products in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our third-party manufacturers will be unable to use the components they have purchased on our behalf. Historically, the cost of the components used in our products tends to drop rapidly as 17 Table of Contents volumes increase and the technologies mature. Therefore, if our third-party manufacturers are unable to promptly use components purchased on our behalf, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher-priced components. Moreover, if they are unable to use components ordered at our direction, we will need to reimburse them for any losses they incur, which could be material. In fiscal year 2020, we experienced an elongation of the time from order placement to production primarily due to increased demand and the resulting component shortages and supply chain disruption brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. We have responded by extending our ordering horizon to as long as 21 months. As a result, our exposure to the foregoing risks is greater and our potential liability for losses is greater relative to our more typical ordering horizon of up to 6 to 9 months. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components, or if we experience any interruption in the supply of components, our product shipments could be reduced or delayed or our cost of obtaining these components may increase. Component shortages and delays affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries, damage our brand and reputation in the market, and cause us to lose sales and market share. For example, component shortages and disruptions in supply are currently limiting our ability to supply all the worldwide demand for our SMB switch products, and our revenue has been and will continue to be affected. At times we have elected to purchase components on the spot market or to use more expensive transportation methods, such as air freight, to make up for manufacturing delays caused by component shortages, which reduces our margins. If we do not effectively manage our sales channel inventory and product mix, we may incur costs associated with excess inventory, or lose sales from having too few products. If we are unable to properly monitor and manage our sales channel inventory and maintain an appropriate level and mix of products with our retail partners and wholesale distributors and within our sales channels, we may incur increased and unexpected costs associated with this inventory. We generally allow wholesale distributors and traditional retailers to return a limited amount of our products in exchange for other products. Under our price protection policy, if we reduce the list price of a product, we are often required to issue a credit in an amount equal to the reduction for each of the products held in inventory by our wholesale distributors and retailers. If our wholesale distributors and retailers are unable to sell their inventory in a timely manner, we might lower the price of the products, or these parties may exchange the products for newer products. Also, during the transition from an existing product to a new replacement product, we must accurately predict the demand for the existing and the new product. We determine production levels based on our forecasts of demand for our products. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. We have experienced differences between our actual and our forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. If we improperly forecast demand for our products, we could end up with too many products and be unable to sell the excess inventory in a timely manner, if at all, or, alternatively we could end up with too few products and not be able to satisfy demand. This problem is exacerbated because we attempt to closely match inventory levels with product demand leaving limited margin for error. If these events occur, we could incur increased expenses associated with writing off excessive or obsolete inventory, lose sales, incur penalties for late delivery or have to ship products by air freight to meet immediate demand incurring incremental freight costs above the sea freight costs, a preferred method, and suffering a corresponding decline in gross margins. For example, demand for our Connected Home products for the 2021 fiscal year turned out to be lower than we previously forecast, and resulted in our revenue for fiscal year 2021 to come in lower than expected, as our channel partners in the U.S. are expected to replenish inventory slower than they sell it through to end users to right size their inventory carrying position based on the lower demand levels than were previously expected. We depend on a limited number of third-party manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. If these third-party manufacturers experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, we could lose revenue and our brand may suffer. All of our products are manufactured, assembled, tested and generally packaged by a limited number of third-party manufacturers, including original design manufacturers, or ODMs, as well as their sub-contract manufacturers. In most cases, we rely on these manufacturers to procure components and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. Some of our products are manufactured by a single manufacturer. We do not have any long-term contracts with any of our third-party manufacturers. Some of these third-party manufacturers produce products for our competitors or are themselves competitors in certain product categories. Due to changing economic conditions, the viability of 18 Table of Contents some of these third-party manufacturers may be at risk. The loss of the services of any of our primary third-party manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in operations and delays in product shipments. Qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. Ensuring that a manufacturer is qualified to manufacture our products to our standards is time consuming. In addition, there is no assurance that a manufacturer can scale its production of our products at the volumes and in the quality that we require. In addition, as we recently have transitioned a substantial portion of our manufacturing facilities to different regions, we are subject to additional significant challenges in ensuring that quality, processes and costs, among other issues, are consistent with our expectations. For example, while we expect our manufacturers to be responsible for penalties assessed on us because of excessive failures of the products, there is no assurance that we will be able to collect such reimbursements from these manufacturers, which causes us to take on additional risk for potential failures of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks over which we have limited control: unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; inability to control the quality and reliability of finished products; inability to control delivery schedules; potential liability for expenses incurred by third-party manufacturers in reliance on our forecasts that later prove to be inaccurate, including the cost of components purchased by third-party manufacturers on our behalf, which may be material; potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and potential labor unrest affecting the ability of the third-party manufacturers to produce our products. All of our products must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some of our products must also receive government certifications. Our third-party manufacturers are primarily responsible for conducting the tests that support our applications for most regulatory approvals for our products. If our third-party manufacturers fail to timely and accurately conduct these tests, we would be unable to obtain the necessary domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. As a result, we would be unable to sell our products and our sales and profitability could be reduced, our relationships with our sales channel could be harmed, and our reputation and brand would suffer. Specifically, substantially all of our manufacturing and assembly occurs in the Asia Pacific region, and any disruptions due to natural disasters, climate change, health epidemics and political, social and economic instability in the region would affect the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products. For example, in late August 2021, heavy rains caused our factory in Thailand to become flooded and created a one-month delay in manufacturing and required us to move some non-U.S. manufacturing back to China. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to the temporary closure of many factories, businesses, schools and public spaces, as well as travel restrictions impacting the movement of people and goods, most recently in Southeast Asia and in particular northern Vietnam and Thailand, where a significant portion of our products are manufactured. In December 2021, one of our manufacturers had to shut down its factory in Haiphong, Vietnam due to a COVID-19 outbreak and when it reopened one week later, had to operate with less than a quarter of its staff. This led to a material loss of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2021. If these closures and restrictions continue for a substantial period of time, they may disrupt important elements of our supply chain, including the operation of our third-party manufacturing facilities and other key service providers, the availability of labor, and the supply of necessary components. If the cost of production charged by our third-party manufacturers increases, it may affect our margins and ability to lower prices for our products to stay competitive. For example, we are currently experiencing price increases with certain of our manufacturing partners, and are negotiating price increases with certain other of our manufacturing partners. Labor unrest in Southeast Asia, China or other locations where components and our products are manufactured may also affect our third-party manufacturers as workers may strike and cause production delays. If our third-party manufacturers fail to maintain good relations with their employees or contractors, and production and manufacturing of our products is affected, then we may be subject to shortages of products and quality of products delivered may be affected. Further, if our 19 Table of Contents manufacturers or warehousing facilities are disrupted or destroyed, we would have no other readily available alternatives for manufacturing and assembling our products and our business would be significantly harmed. In our typical ODM arrangement, our ODMs are generally responsible for sourcing the components of the products and warranting that the products will work against a products specification, including any software specifications. If we needed to move to a contract manufacturing arrangement, we would take on much more, if not all, of the responsibility around these areas. If we are unable to properly manage these risks, our products may be more susceptible to defects and our business would be harmed. We rely on a limited number of traditional and online retailers, wholesale distributors and service provider customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and our net revenue could decline if they refuse to pay our requested prices or reduce their level of purchases, if there are unforeseen disruptions in their businesses, or if there is significant consolidation in our customer base that results in fewer customers for our products. We sell a substantial portion of our products through traditional and online retailers, including Best Buy Co., Inc., Amazon.com, Inc. and their affiliates, wholesale distributors, including Ingram Micro, Inc. and TD Synnex, and service providers, such as AT&T. We expect that a significant portion of our net revenue will continue to come from sales to a small number of customers for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our accounts receivable are often concentrated with a small group of purchasers, the failure of any of them to pay on a timely basis, or at all, would reduce our cash flow. We are also exposed to increased credit risk if any one of these limited numbers of customers fails or becomes insolvent. We generally have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these customers. These purchasers could decide at any time to discontinue, decrease or delay their purchases of our products. If our customers increase the size of their product orders without sufficient lead-time for us to process the order, our ability to fulfill product demands would be compromised. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Accordingly, the prices that they pay for our products are subject to negotiation and could change at any time. For example, as mentioned above in the risk factors If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, we may be unable to sell or timely deliver our products, and our operating expenses could increase and We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources, and if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements or we are unable to properly manage our supply requirements with our third-party manufacturers, we may lose sales and experience increased component costs , we are currently experiencing increased freight costs and component costs, and have provided notice of price increases to our customers to become effective during the first quarter of 2022 which may impact end user demand for our products and place us at a disadvantage to our competitors. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If any of our major customers reduce their level of purchases or refuse to pay the prices that we set for our products, our net revenue and operating results could be harmed. Furthermore, some of our customers are also our competitors in certain product categories, which could negatively influence their purchasing decisions. For example, Amazon owns Eero, one of our competitors in the mesh WiFi systems product category. Our traditional retail customers have faced increased and significant competition from online retailers, and some of these traditional retail customers have increasingly become a smaller portion of our business. If key retail customers continue to reduce their level of purchases, our business could be harmed. Similarly, we sell products and services directly to consumers from our own e-commerce platforms and expect these revenues to grow proportionate to overall revenue. Some of our customers, such as Amazon and Best Buy, may consider this to be competitive with their own businesses, which could negatively influence their purchasing decisions with respect to our products. In addition, unforeseen disruptions in the businesses of any of our key customers could adversely impact the sale of our products to end users and the quantity of products our customers decide to purchase from us. For example, the unexpected need of many of our retail customers to close their physical locations due to the pandemic forced them to rapidly shift to online methods of selling products, and Amazon, one of our largest retail customers, shut down six warehouses in France in April due to a labor dispute with workers who alleged that Amazon wasnt doing enough to protect them from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. This shift may have a longer-term impact on the inventory levels these customers choose to carry. Also, during the pandemic, some channel partners have prioritized the sale and delivery of other categories of products ahead of ours. Further, we believe the COVID-19 pandemic has led to an acceleration of the shift to a greater percentage of products being bought and sold online. If we are unable to adjust to this shift, this may lead to lower market share and lower revenues for us, and our net revenue and operating results could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, concentration and consolidation among our customer base may allow certain customers to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. If, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, elimination of sales opportunities, replacement of our products with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which would harm our operating results. Consolidation among our service provider customers worldwide may also make it more difficult to grow our service provider business, given the fierce competition for the already limited number of service providers worldwide and the long sales cycles to close deals. If consolidation among our customer base becomes more prevalent, our operating results may be harmed. The COVID-19 pandemic could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The novel strain of the coronavirus (COVID-19) has spread as a global pandemic throughout the world and has resulted in authorities imposing, and businesses and individuals implementing, numerous unprecedented measures to try to contain the virus. These efforts include travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place/stay-at-home and social distancing orders, and shutdowns. These measures have impacted and may further impact our workforce and operations, the operations of our customers, and those of our vendors, suppliers and manufacturing partners. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to affect our business, results of operation and financial condition is difficult to predict and depends on numerous evolving factors, including: the duration and scope of the pandemic and its impact on overall global uncertainty; the level of vaccination rates; new and potentially more contagious or more dangerous variants of COVID-19, such as the Omicron and delta variants; government, social, business and other actions that have been and will be taken in response to the pandemic; and the effect of the pandemic on short- and long-term general economic conditions. While our manufacturing partners and component suppliers mostly have been able to continue to operate to date in compliance with applicable regulations and current limitations, future restrictions on their operations could impact our ability to meet customer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if prolonged. For example, provinces in northern Vietnam where our factories and component suppliers are located implemented province-wide shutdowns during the second fiscal quarter of 2021, and one of our factories in Vietnam was closed for one week due to a COVID-19 outbreak and had to reopen with limited staff at the end of the fourth quarter of 2021. Both incidents materially and adversely impacted our supply of SMB products and components during the respective quarters, and may continue to do so in future quarters. Further, as the availability of vaccines against the COVID-19 virus varies greatly around the world, the potential for future shutdowns which may adversely affect our ability to supply products remains a significant risk going forward. Similarly, current and future restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air and ground transport labor and vehicles, port closures or congestion, and increased border controls or closures, have impacted and may continue to impact our ability to meet demand and could materially adversely affect us. For example, as mentioned above in the risk factor If disruptions in our transportation network occur or our shipping costs substantially increase, we may be unable to sell or timely deliver our products, and our operating expenses could increase , we have already experienced a significant increase in the cost of ocean freight and air freight as a result of the pandemic, which negatively affects our profitability as we seek to transport an increased number of products from manufacturing locations in Asia to other markets around the world as quickly as possible. We have also experienced shortages in freight capacity. This can negatively impact our ability to ship volume predictably and on a lower cost basis. In addition, rapidly shifting consumer demand during the pandemic can lead to unexpected results of operations. Although we have seen a significant increase in demand for our Connected Home products due to consumers responding to work-from-home and shelter-in-place measures, we do not know how long this increase may last. In particular, as vaccines have become widely available and consumers return to work or school and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, particularly in North America where we derive a substantial portion of our revenue, we have started to see this increase in demand taper. If this tapering of demand occurs at a more rapid pace than we are forecasting, our revenue, profitability and other financial results could be adversely affected. This unanticipated increase in demand has also put strain on our manufacturing partners, suppliers and logistics partners to produce and deliver a sufficient number of products to meet this demand. In particular, the limited and delayed availability of certain key components for our products, such as specialized WiFi 6 chipsets, microcontrollers, power over ethernet chipsets and power integrated circuits, significantly constrains our ability to meet the increased demand and over the course of the past year, we have seen lead times for some of these key components increase dramatically from as low 21 Table of Contents as 8 weeks to up to 5 2 weeks currently. This in turn puts pressure on our ability to accurately forecast and increases the likelihood that the accuracy of such forecasts will be lower, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. During the second and third fiscal quarters of 2020, we experienced a weakening in demand for our SMB products as businesses reacted to the uncertainty caused by the pandemic and placed projects on hold, and during the second fiscal quarter of 2021 we began to experience a softening in demand for our Connected Home products which was below our previous forecasts. If we continue to experience weakened demand in either our Connected Home or SMB business segments that is not in line with our forecasts, our revenue, profitability and other financial results would be materially adversely impacted. The pandemic has significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty and also has led to increased disruption and volatility in capital markets and credit markets. The current severe economic slowdown resulting from the pandemic has already started to lead to a global recession. There is a significant degree of uncertainty and lack of visibility as to the extent and duration of any such slowdown or recession. Risks related to a slowdown or recession include the risk that demand for our products will be significantly harmed over time, if consumers choose to delay product upgrades or various projects in order to conserve funds. Given the significant economic uncertainty and volatility created by the pandemic, it is difficult to predict the nature and extent of impacts on demand for our products. These expectations are subject to change without warning. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences, and social distancing measures), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, vendors, and suppliers. Work-from-home and other measures introduce additional operational risks, including cybersecurity risks, and have affected the way we conduct our product development, testing, customer support, and other activities, which could have an adverse effect on our operations. For example, we have a significant research and development center in Bangalore, India, and significant vendor relationships with third party information technology and software development providers who are also based in India, which experienced a tremendous surge in COVID-19 cases during the first fiscal quarter of 2021. Furthermore, we rely on third-party laboratories to test and certify our products. If these service providers close or reduce staffing, it could delay our product development efforts. There is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the virus, and illness and workforce disruptions could lead to unavailability of key personnel and harm our ability to perform critical functions. In addition, work-from-home and related business practice modifications present significant challenges to maintaining our corporate culture, including employee engagement and productivity, both during the immediate pandemic crisis and as we make additional adjustments in the eventual transition from it. The degree to which COVID-19 impacts our results will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume. We are similarly unable to predict the degree to which the pandemic impacts our customers, suppliers, vendors, and other partners, and their financial conditions, but a material effect on these parties could also adversely affect us. As mentioned above, factory shutdowns in northern Vietnam materially and adversely affected our manufacturing partners and component suppliers in that area, which in turn materially and adversely affected our supply chain and our operating results. Our main distribution partner in Southern California has had several incidents of workers at its facility testing positive for COVID-19, forcing the facility to close temporarily. Along the same lines, Amazon, one of our largest retail customers, shut down six warehouses in France in April due to a labor dispute with workers who alleged that Amazon wasnt doing enough to protect them from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The impact of COVID-19 can also exacerbate other risks discussed above and below, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on us. Developments related to COVID-19 have been rapidly changing, as exemplified by the recent and rapid spread of the Omicron variant, and additional impacts and risks may arise that we are not aware of or able to appropriately respond to currently. Should the COVID-19 situation or global economic slowdown not improve or worsen, or if our attempts to mitigate its impact on our operations and costs are not successful, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be adversely affected. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If our actual results were to fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts or investors, our quarterly and annual results would be 22 Table of Contents negatively impacted and the price of our stock could decline. Other factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed in the risk factors section of this report and others such as: operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failure of our order processing system, particularly if they occur at the end of a fiscal quarter; component supply constraints, including specialized WiFi 6 chipsets, or sudden, unforeseen price increases from our manufacturers, suppliers and vendors; unanticipated increases in costs, including air and ocean freight, associated with shipping and delivery of our products; the inability to maintain stable operations by our suppliers, distribution centers and other parties with which we have commercial relationships; the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly on our supply chain, our channel partners and our end market sales; seasonal shifts in end market demand for our products, particularly in our Connected Home business segment; our inability to accurately forecast product demand or optimal product mix such as the proportion of lower-priced products versus premium products resulting in increased inventory exposure and/or lost sales; unfavorable level of inventory and turns; changes in or consolidation of our sales channels and wholesale distributor relationships or failure to manage our sales channel inventory and warehousing requirements; unanticipated decreases or delays in purchases of our products by our significant traditional and online retail customers; shift in overall product mix sales from higher to lower gross margin products, from lower-priced products to premium products, or from one business segment to another, that would adversely impact our revenue and gross margins; an increase in price protection claims, redemptions of marketing rebates, product warranty and stock rotation returns or allowance for doubtful accounts; delay or failure to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; changes in the pricing policies of or the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; unexpected challenges or delays in our ability to further develop services and applications that complement our products and result in meaningful subscriber growth and future recurring revenue; discovery or exploitation of security vulnerabilities in our products, services or systems, leading to negative publicity, decreased demand or potential liability, including potential breach of our customers data privacy or disruption of the continuous operation of our cloud infrastructure and our products; introductions of new technologies and changes in consumer preferences that result in either unanticipated or unexpectedly rapid product category shifts; 23 Table of Contents slow or negative growth in the networking product, personal computer, Internet infrastructure, smart home, home electronics and related technology markets; delays in the introduction of new products by us or market acceptance of these products; delays in regulatory approvals or consumer adoption of WiFi 6E technology in various regions; increases in expenses related to the development, introduction and marketing of new products that adversely impact our margins; increases in expenses related to the development and marketing related to the Companys direct online sales channels that adversely impact our margins; changes in tax rates or adverse changes in tax laws that expose us to additional income tax liabilities; changes in U.S. and international trade policy that adversely affect customs, tax or duty rates; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the jurisdictions where we transact sales and expenditures in local currency; unanticipated increases in expenses related to periodic restructuring measures undertaken to achieve profitability and other business goals, including the reallocation or relocation of resources; delay or failure of our service provider customers to purchase at their historic volumes or at the volumes that they or we forecast; litigation involving alleged patent infringement, consumer class actions, securities class actions or other claims that could negatively impact our reputation, brand, business and financial condition; disruptions or delays related to our financial and enterprise resource planning systems; allowance for doubtful accounts exposure with our existing retailers, distributors and other channel partners and new retailers, distributors and other channel partners, particularly as we expand into new international markets; geopolitical disruption, including sudden changes in immigration policies, leading to disruption in our workforce or delay or even stoppage of our operations in manufacturing, transportation, technical support and research and development; terms of our contracts with customers or suppliers that cause us to incur additional expenses or assume additional liabilities; epidemic or widespread product failure, performance problems or unanticipated safety issues in one or more of our products that could negatively impact our reputation, brand and business; any changes in accounting rules; challenges associated with integrating acquisitions that we make, or with realizing value from our strategic investments in other companies; 24 Table of Contents failure to effectively manage our third-party customer support partners, which may result in customer complaints and/or harm to the NETGEAR brand; our inability to monitor and ensure compliance with our code of ethics, our anti-corruption compliance program and domestic and international anti-corruption laws and regulations, whether in relation to our employees or with our suppliers or customers; labor unrest at facilities managed by our third-party manufacturers; workplace or human rights violations in certain countries in which our third-party manufacturers or suppliers operate, which may affect the NETGEAR brand and negatively affect our products acceptance by consumers; unanticipated shifts or declines in profit by geographical region that would adversely impact our tax rate; and our failure to implement and maintain the appropriate internal controls over financial reporting which may result in restatements of our financial statements. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and to be competitive we may be required to lower our prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses, which could result in reduced margins or loss of market share and revenue. We compete in a rapidly evolving and fiercely competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to be intense, including price competition. Our principal competitors in the consumer market include ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Devolo, D-Link, Eero (owned by Amazon), Linksys (owned by Foxconn), Minim (owned by Motorola), Nest (owned by Google), Samsung, Synology and TP-Link. Our principal competitors in the business market include Allied Telesys, Barracuda, Buffalo, Cisco Systems, Dell, D-Link, Fortinet, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, Palo Alto Networks, QNAP Systems, SonicWall, Synology, TP-Link, Ubiquiti and WatchGuard. Our principal competitors in the service provider market include Actiontec, Airties, Arcadyan, ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Compal Broadband, D-Link, Eero (owned by Amazon), Franklin, Google, Hitron, Huawei, Inseego, Nokia, Plume, Sagem, Sercomm, SMC Networks, TechniColor, TP-Link, Ubee, ZTE and Zyxel. Other competitors include numerous local vendors such as Xiaomi in China, AVM in Germany and Buffalo in Japan. In addition, these local vendors may target markets outside of their local regions and may increasingly compete with us in other regions worldwide. Our potential competitors also include other consumer electronics vendors, including Apple, LG Electronics, Microsoft, Panasonic, Sony, Toshiba and Vizio, who could integrate networking and streaming capabilities into their line of products, such as televisions, set top boxes and gaming consoles, and our channel customers who may decide to offer self-branded networking products. We also face competition from service providers who may bundle a free networking device with their broadband service offering, which would reduce our sales if we were not the supplier of choice to those service providers. In the service provider space, we are also facing significant and increased competition from original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and contract manufacturers who are selling and attempting to sell their products directly to service providers around the world. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. These competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers, and exert more influence on sales channels than we can. Certain of our significant competitors also serve as key sales and marketing channels for our products, potentially giving these competitors a marketplace advantage based on their knowledge of our business activities and/or their ability to negatively influence our sales opportunities. For example, Amazon provides an important sales channel for our products, but it also competes with us in the mesh WiFi systems product category through its subsidiary Eero. In addition, certain competitors may have different business models, such as integrated manufacturing capabilities, that may allow them to achieve cost savings and to compete on the basis of price. Other competitors may have fewer resources, but may be more nimble in developing new or disruptive technology or in entering new markets. We anticipate that current and potential competitors will also intensify their efforts to penetrate our target markets. For example, in the recent past certain network security companies such as Symantec have introduced security routers for 25 Table of Contents the home consumer market to compete with us and we believe that other network security companies may also seek to do the same. Price competition is intense in our industry in certain geographical regions and product categories. Many of our competitors in the service provider and retail spaces price their products significantly below our product costs in order to gain market share. Certain substantial competitors have business models that are more focused on customer acquisition and access to customer data rather than on financial return from product sales, and these competitors have the ability to provide sustained price competition to many of our products in the market. Average sales prices have declined in the past and may again decline in the future. These competitors may have more advanced technology, more extensive distribution channels, stronger brand names, greater access to shelf space in retail locations, bigger promotional budgets and larger customer bases than we do. In addition, many of these competitors leverage a broader product portfolio and offer lower pricing as part of a more comprehensive end-to-end solution which we may not have. These companies could devote more capital resources to develop, manufacture and market competing products than we could. Our competitors may acquire other companies in the market and leverage combined resources to gain market share. In some instances, our competitors may be acquired by larger companies with additional formidable resources, such as the purchase of ARRIS by CommScope, Eero by Amazon and Linksys by Foxconn. Additionally, in the case of Linksys, Foxconn is one of our main third-party manufacturing partners, which presents an additional risk if Foxconn decides to prioritize its interest in Linksys over its relationship with us. If any of these companies are successful in competing against us, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to continue to introduce or acquire new products and services that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain net revenue and gross margins. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire, and introduce new products and services that achieve broad market acceptance. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify demand trends in the consumer, business and service provider markets, and to quickly develop or acquire, and manufacture and sell products and services that satisfy these demands in a cost-effective manner. In order to differentiate our products from our competitors products, we must continue to increase our focus and capital investment in research and development, including software development for our products and complementary services and applications. For example, we have committed a substantial amount of resources to the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of our Nighthawk home networking products and Orbi WiFi system, and to introducing additional and improved models in these lines. If these products do not continue to maintain or achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unsuccessful in capitalizing on other smart home market opportunities, our future growth may be slowed and our financial results could be harmed. Also, as the mix of our business increasingly includes new products and services that require additional investment, this shift may adversely impact our margins, at least in the near-term. For example, we are making significant investments in the development and introduction of our new WiFi 6 products and accompanying services, including marketing efforts to build awareness of the benefits of this next-generation WiFi standard and the importance of our services. Successfully predicting demand trends is difficult, and it is very difficult to predict the effect that introducing a new product will have on existing product sales. We will also need to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products. In addition, we have acquired companies and technologies in the past and as a result, have introduced new product lines in new markets. We may not be able to successfully manage integration of the new product lines with our existing products. Selling new product lines in new markets will require our management to learn different strategies in order to be successful. We may be unsuccessful in launching a newly acquired product line in new markets which requires management of new suppliers, potential new customers and new business models. Our management may not have the experience of selling in these new markets and we may not be able to grow our business as planned. For example, in August 2018, we acquired Meural Inc., a leader in digital platforms for visual art, to enhance our Connected Home product and service offerings. If we are unable to effectively and successfully further develop these new product lines, we may not be able to increase or maintain our sales and our gross margins may be adversely affected. We have experienced delays and quality issues in releasing new products in the past, which resulted in lower quarterly net revenue than expected. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, product introductions that fall short of our projected rates of market adoption. Online Internet reviews of our products are increasingly becoming a significant factor in the success of our new product launches, especially in our Connected Home business segment. If we are unable to quickly respond to negative reviews, including end user reviews posted 26 Table of Contents on various prominent online retailers, our ability to sell these products will be harmed. Any future delays in product development and introduction, or product introductions that do not meet broad market acceptance, or unsuccessful launches of new product lines could result in: loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand; a decline in the average selling price of our products; adverse reactions in our sales channels, such as reduced shelf space, reduced online product visibility, or loss of sales channels; and increased levels of product returns. Throughout the past few years, we have significantly increased the rate of our new product introductions. If we cannot sustain that pace of product introductions, either through rapid innovation or acquisition of new products or product lines, we may not be able to maintain or increase the market share of our products. In addition, if we are unable to successfully introduce or acquire new products with higher gross margins, or if we are unable to improve the margins on our previously introduced and rapidly growing product lines, our net revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. We depend substantially on our sales channels, and our failure to maintain and expand our sales channels would result in lower sales and reduced net revenue. To maintain and grow our market share, net revenue and brand, we must maintain and expand our sales channels. Our sales channels consist of traditional retailers, online retailers, DMRs, VARs, and broadband service providers. Some of these entities purchase our products through our wholesale distributor customers. We generally have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these third parties. Traditional retailers have limited shelf space and promotional budgets, and competition is intense for these resources. If the networking sector does not experience sufficient growth, retailers may choose to allocate more shelf space to other consumer product sectors. A competitor with more extensive product lines and stronger brand identity may have greater bargaining power with these retailers. Any reduction in available shelf space or increased competition for such shelf space would require us to increase our marketing expenditures simply to maintain current levels of retail shelf space, which would harm our operating margin. Our traditional retail customers have faced increased and significant competition from online retailers. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the shift to a greater percentage of purchases taking place online versus traditional retail customers. If we cannot effectively manage our business amongst our online customers and traditional retail customers, our business would be harmed. The recent trend in the consolidation of online retailers and DMR channels has resulted in intensified competition for preferred product placement, such as product placement on an online retailers Internet home page. Expanding our presence in the VAR channel may be difficult and expensive. We compete with established companies that have longer operating histories and longstanding relationships with VARs that we would find highly desirable as sales channel partners. In addition, our efforts to realign or consolidate our sales channels may cause temporary disruptions in our product sales and revenue, and these changes may not result in the expected longer-term benefits. Recently, we have begun to sell products and services directly to consumers from our own e-commerce platforms. This has required a material investment in capital, time and resources and carries the risk that it may not achieve the expected return on investment that we are expecting, and that it may adversely affect our relationships with our existing channel partners, which ultimately may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. We also sell products to broadband service providers. Competition for selling to broadband service providers is fierce and intense. Penetrating service provider accounts typically involves a long sales cycle and the challenge of displacing incumbent suppliers with established relationships and field-deployed products. If we are unable to maintain and expand our sales channels, our growth would be limited and our business would be harmed. 27 Table of Contents We must also continuously monitor and evaluate emerging sales channels. If we fail to establish a presence in an important developing sales channel, such as sales directly to consumers from our own e-commerce platforms, our business could be harmed. Changes in trade policy in the United States and other countries, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The prior U.S. administration altered the approach to international trade policy through the renegotiation, and potential termination, of certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements and treaties with, and the imposition of tariffs on a wide range of products and other goods from, a number of countries. In particular, the U.S. government engaged in extended trade negotiations with China, which resulted in the implementation of tariffs on a significant number of products manufactured in China and imported into the United States. There is no indication at this time that the current administration will amend or reverse the tariff policies enacted by the prior administration. We worked closely with our manufacturing partners to implement ways to mitigate the impact of these tariffs on our supply chain as promptly and reasonably as practicable, including shifting production outside of China. These efforts are disruptive on our operations, may not be completely successful and may result in higher long-term manufacturing costs. Moreover, there is no certainty that countries to which we have shifted our manufacturing operations will not be subject to similar tariffs in the future. As a result, we may be required to raise our prices on certain products, which could result in the loss of customers and harm to our revenue, market share, competitive position and operating performance. Additionally, the imposition of tariffs is dependent upon the classification of items under the Harmonized Tariff System (HTS) and the country of origin of the item. Determination of the HTS and the origin of the item is a technical matter that can be subjective in nature. Accordingly, although we believe our classifications of both HTS and origin are appropriate, there is no certainty that the U.S. government will agree with us. If the U.S. government does not agree with our determinations, we could be required to pay additional amounts, including potential penalties, and our profitability would be adversely impacted. We depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant customers, and a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could negatively affect our revenue. The loss of recurring orders from any of our more significant customers could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of our products. In addition, a change in the mix of our customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. Although our financial performance may depend on large, recurring orders from certain customers and resellers, we do not generally have binding commitments from them. For example: our reseller agreements generally do not require substantial minimum purchases; our customers can stop purchasing and our resellers can stop marketing our products at any time; and our reseller agreements generally are not exclusive. Further, our revenue may be impacted by significant one-time purchases which are not contemplated to be repeatable. While such purchases are reflected in our financial statements, we do not rely on and do not forecast for continued significant one-time purchases. As a result, lack of repeatable one-time purchases will adversely affect our revenue. Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from, customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm or otherwise have a negative impact to our operating results. Although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that our operating results for any given period will continue to depend on large orders from a small number of customers. 28 Table of Contents If we fail to overcome the challenges associated with managing our broadband service provider sales channel, our net revenue and gross profit will be negatively impacted. We sell a significant number of products through broadband service providers worldwide. However, the service provider sales channel is challenging and exceptionally competitive. Difficulties and challenges in selling to service providers include a longer sales cycle, more stringent product testing and validation requirements, a higher level of customization demands, requirements that suppliers take on a larger share of the risk with respect to contractual business terms, competition from established suppliers, pricing pressure resulting in lower gross margins, and irregular and unpredictable ordering habits. For example, rigorous service provider certification processes may delay our sale of new products, or our products ultimately may fail these tests. In either event, we may lose some or all of the amounts we expended in trying to obtain business from the service provider, as well as lose the business opportunity altogether. In addition, even if we have a product which a service provider customer may wish to purchase, we may choose not to supply products to the potential service provider customer if the contract requirements, such as service level requirements, penalties, and liability provisions, are too onerous. Accordingly, our business may be harmed and our revenues may be reduced. We have, in exceptional limited circumstances, while still in contract negotiations, shipped products in advance of and subject to agreement on a definitive contract. We do not record revenue from these shipments until a definitive contract exists. There is risk that we do not ultimately close and sign a definitive contract. If this occurs, the timing of revenue recognition is uncertain and our business would be harmed. In addition, we often commence building custom-made products prior to execution of a contract in order to meet the customers contemplated launch dates and requirements. Service provider products are generally custom-made for a specific customer and may not be salable to other customers or in other channels. If we have pre-built custom-made products but do not come to agreement on a definitive contract, we may be forced to scrap the custom-made products or re-work them at substantial cost and our business would be harmed. Further, successful engagements with service provider customers requires a constant analysis of technology trends. If we are unable to anticipate technology trends and service provider customer product needs, and to allocate research and development resources to the right projects, we may not be successful in continuing to sell products to service provider customers. In addition, because our service provider customers command significant resources, including for software support, and demand extremely competitive pricing, certain ODMs have declined to develop service provider products on an ODM basis. Accordingly, as our ODMs increasingly limit development of our service provider products, our service provider business will be harmed if we cannot replace this capability with alternative ODMs or in-house development. Orders from service providers generally tend to be large but sporadic, which causes our revenues from them to fluctuate and challenges our ability to accurately forecast demand from them. In particular, managing inventory and production of our products for our service provider customers is a challenge. Many of our service provider customers have irregular purchasing requirements. These customers may decide to cancel orders for customized products specific to that customer, and we may not be able to reconfigure and sell those products in other channels. These cancellations could lead to substantial write-offs. In addition, these customers may issue unforecasted orders for products which we may not be able to produce in a timely manner and as such, we may not be able to accept and deliver on such unforecasted orders. In certain cases, we may commit to fixed-price, long term purchase orders, with such orders priced in foreign currencies which could lose value over time in the event of adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. Even if we are selected as a supplier, typically a service provider will also designate a second source supplier, which over time will reduce the aggregate orders that we receive from that service provider. Further, as the technology underlying our products deployed by broadband service providers matures and more competitors offer alternative products with similar technology, we anticipate competing in an extremely price sensitive market and our margins may be affected. If we are unable to introduce new products with sufficiently advanced technology to attract service provider interest in a timely manner, our service provider customers may then require us to lower our prices, or they may choose to purchase products from our competitors. If this occurs, our business would be harmed and our revenues would be reduced. If we were to lose a service provider customer for any reason, we may experience a material and immediate reduction in forecasted revenue that may cause us to be below our net revenue and operating margin expectations for a particular period of time and therefore adversely affect our stock price. For example, many of our competitors in the service provider space aggressively price their products in order to gain market share. We may not be able to match the lower prices offered by our competitors, and we may choose to forgo lower-margin business opportunities. Many of the service provider customers will seek to purchase from the lowest cost provider, notwithstanding that our products may be higher quality or that our products were previously validated for use on their proprietary network. Accordingly, we may lose customers who have lower, more aggressive pricing, and our revenues may be reduced. In 29 Table of Contents addition, service providers may choose to prioritize the implementation of other technologies or the roll out of other services than home networking. Weakness in orders from this industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have seen slowdowns in capital expenditures by certain of our service provider customers in the past and believe there may be potential for similar slowdowns in the future. Any slowdown in the general economy, over supply, consolidation among service providers, regulatory developments and constraint on capital expenditures could result in reduced demand from service providers and therefore adversely affect our sales to them. If we do not successfully overcome these challenges, we will not be able to profitably manage our service provider sales channel and our financial results will be harmed. The average selling prices of our products typically decrease rapidly over the sales cycle of the product, which may negatively affect our net revenue and gross margins. Our products typically experience price erosion, a fairly rapid reduction in the average unit selling prices over their respective sales cycles. In order to sell products that have a falling average unit selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. To manage manufacturing costs, we must collaborate with our third-party manufacturers to engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. In addition, we must carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products. We must also successfully manage our freight and inventory costs to reduce overall product costs. We also need to continually introduce new products with higher sales prices and gross margins in order to maintain our overall gross margins. If we are unable to manage the cost of older products or successfully introduce new products with higher gross margins, our net revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. Our sales and operations in international markets expose us to operational, financial and regulatory risks. International sales comprise a significant amount of our overall net revenue. International sales were approximately 35% of overall net revenue in fiscal year 2021 and approximately 31% of overall net revenue in fiscal year 2020. We continue to be committed to growing our international sales, and while we have committed resources to expanding our international operations and sales channels, these efforts may not be successful. International operations are subject to a number of other risks, including: exchange rate fluctuations; political and economic instability, international terrorism and anti-American sentiment, particularly in emerging markets; potential for violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as those related to bribery and fraud; preference for locally branded products, and laws and business practices favoring local competition; changes in local tax and customs duty laws or changes in the enforcement, application or interpretation of such laws (including potential responses to the higher U.S. tariffs on certain imported products implemented by the U.S.); consequences of, and uncertainty related to, the BREXIT deal by the United Kingdom and the current transition, which could lead to additional expense and complexity in doing business there; increased difficulty in managing inventory; delayed revenue recognition; less effective protection of intellectual property; stringent consumer protection and product compliance regulations, including but not limited to the Restriction of Hazardous Substances directive, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive and the European Ecodesign directive, or EuP, that are costly to comply with and may vary from country to country; 30 Table of Contents difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and business difficulties, including potential bankruptcy or liquidation, of any of our worldwide third-party logistics providers. While we believe we generally have good relations with our employees, employees in certain jurisdictions have rights which give them certain collective rights. If management must expend significant resources and effort to address and comply with these rights, our business may be harmed. We are also required to comply with local environmental legislation and our customers rely on this compliance in order to sell our products. If our customers do not agree with our interpretations and requirements of new legislation, they may cease to order our products and our revenue would be harmed. As part of growing our business, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions. If we fail to successfully select, execute or integrate our acquisitions, then our business and operating results could be harmed and our stock price could decline. From time to time, we will undertake acquisitions to add new product lines and technologies, gain new sales channels or enter into new sales territories. For example, in August 2018, we acquired Meural Inc., a leader in digital platforms for visual art, to enhance our Connected Home product and service offerings. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including but not limited to the following: integrating the companies, assets, systems, products, sales channels and personnel that we acquire; higher than anticipated acquisition and integration costs and expenses; reliance on third parties to provide transition services for a period of time after closing to ensure an orderly transition of the business; growing or maintaining revenues to justify the purchase price and the increased expenses associated with acquisitions; entering into territories or markets with which we have limited or no prior experience; establishing or maintaining business relationships with customers, vendors and suppliers who may be new to us; overcoming the employee, customer, vendor and supplier turnover that may occur as a result of the acquisition; disruption of, and demands on, our ongoing business as a result of integration activities including diversion of managements time and attention from running the day-to-day operations of our business; inability to implement uniform standards, disclosure