Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 below, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future financial position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. The words believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, should, plan, expect and similar expressions, as they relate to us, are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described in Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A below, and elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including, among other things: future demand for our products may be lower than anticipated; consumers may choose not to adopt our new product offerings or adopt competing products; the actual price, performance and ease of use of our products may not meet the price, performance and ease of use requirements of consumers; our dependence on certain significant customers; our reliance on a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers; new cyber threats may challenge the effectiveness or threaten the security of our products; and our business strategies and development plans may not be successful. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are based on information available to us as of the date hereof, such information may be limited or incomplete, and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. These statements are inherently uncertain and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in this Form 10-K. Item 1. Business General We are a global company that delivers innovative networking and Internet connected products to consumers and businesses. We operate and report in two segments: Connected Home, and Small and Medium Business (SMB). The Connected Home segment is focused on consumers and consists of high-performance, dependable and easy-to-use 4G/5G mobile, Wi-Fi internet networking solutions and smart devices such as Orbi Voice smart speakers and Meural digital canvas. The SMB segment is focused on small and medium-sized businesses and consists of business networking, storage, wireless LAN and security solutions that bring enterprise-class functionality to small and medium-sized businesses at an affordable price. We are organized into the following three geographic territories: Americas; Europe, Middle-East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific (APAC). On February 6, 2018, we announced that the Board of Directors had unanimously approved the pursuit of a separation of our smart camera business Arlo from NETGEAR (the Separation) to be effected by way of initial public offering (IPO) and spin-off. On August 2, 2018, Arlo and NETGEAR announced the pricing of Arlo's IPO and subsequently listed on the New York Stock Exchange on August 3, 2018 under the symbol ARLO. Upon completion of the IPO on August 7, 2018, we held approximately 84.2% of the outstanding shares of Arlo common stock. On December 31, 2018, we completed the distribution of 62,500,000 shares of the outstanding common stock of Arlo to NETGEARs shareholders (the Distribution) and no longer own any shares of Arlo common stock. Upon Arlo's Distribution on December 31, 2018, Arlos historical financial results for periods prior to the Distribution are reflected in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations for the periods presented. For further detail, refer to Note 3, Discontinued Operations, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We were incorporated in Delaware on January 8, 1996. Our website address is www.netgear.com. In the years ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , we generated net revenue of $1.06 billion , $1.04 billion , and $1.14 billion , respectively. 1 Table of Contents Markets Our mission is to be the innovative leader in connecting the world to the internet. Our goal includes being the provider of industry-leading networking and smart connected products for consumers, businesses, and service providers. There are a number of factors that are driving today's demand for products within these markets. The ever-growing number of internet connected devices, such as smart phones, laptops, tablets and the advent of Smart Home and Internet-of-Things devices has increased the need for more robust networking solutions. The internet has enabled information and resource sharing via both local area networks, and more broadly via the internet. To take advantage of complex applications, advanced communication capabilities and rich multimedia content, internet connections are being upgraded by deploying high-speed broadband access technologies. Users also seek the convenience and flexibility of operating their laptops, smart phones, tablets and related computing devices while accessing their content in a more mobile, or wireless, manner. Increased market demand for Smart Home and internet-connected products, such as Smart TVs, game consoles, HD streaming players, security cameras, thermostats, smoke detectors, smart speakers and voice controlled assistants, etc., continue to drive new innovations in networking and related service offerings. As a result, the need and desire for more convenience, speed, coverage range, and reliability of an in-home Wi-Fi network as well as mobile cellular networks has become a greater priority among households as well as businesses. Consumers, businesses and service providers demand a complete set of wired and wireless networking as well as broadband products that are tailored to their specific needs and budgets, while incorporating the latest networking technologies. Although these users desire the continual introduction of new advanced technologies, they often lack technical knowledge and resources. Therefore, a seamless 'plug-and-play' or easy-to-install experience with no need for customer service and support is the expected norm. We have also observed that this audience prefers the convenience of obtaining a networking solution from a single company and we have seen that they tend to be loyal purchasers of a brand with which they have had a good experience. Purchasing decisions in these markets are driven by the affordability and reliability of the products. To provide reliable, easy-to-use products at an attractive price, we believe a successful supplier must have a company-wide focus on the unique requirements of these markets, operational discipline and a cost-efficient infrastructure with processes that allow for efficient product development, manufacturing and distribution. Sales Channels We sell our products through multiple sales channels worldwide, including wholesale distributors, traditional and online retailers, direct market resellers ("DMRs"), value-added resellers ("VARs"), and broadband service providers. Wholesale Distribution. Our distribution channel supplies our products to retailers, e-commerce resellers, DMRs, VARs and broadband service providers. We sell directly to our distributors, the largest of which are Ingram Micro, Inc., D&H Distributing Company and Tech Data Corporation. Retailers. Our retail channel primarily supplies products that are sold into the consumer market. However, increasingly we are seeing products designed for small and medium-sized businesses move through these channels. We sell directly to, or enter into consignment arrangements with, a number of our traditional and online retailers. The remaining traditional retailers, as well as our online retailers, are fulfilled through wholesale distributors. We work directly with our retail channels on market development activities, such as co-advertising, on-line promotions and video demonstrations, instant rebate programs, event sponsorship and sales associate training. Our largest retailers include Best Buy Co., Inc., Amazon.com, Inc. and their affiliates. DMRs and VARs. We sell into the business marketplace through an extensive network of DMRs and VARs. Our DMRs include companies such as CDW and Insight. VARs include our network of registered NETGEAR Solution Partners. DMRs and VARs may receive sales incentives, marketing support and other program benefits from us. Our DMRs and VARs generally purchase our products through our wholesale distributors. Broadband Service Providers. We also supply our products directly to broadband service providers in the United States and internationally providing cable, DSL and 4G/5G mobile broadband. Service providers supply our products to their business and home subscribers. Our largest broadband service providers include AT&T and Telstra. The largest portion of our net revenues was derived from Americas sales in the year ended December 31, 2018 . Americas sales as a percentage of net revenue was 66.2% in the year ended December 31, 2018 , up from 64.0% in the year ended December 31, 2017 . We have continuously committed resources to our international operations and sales channels. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of risks related to international operations such as macroeconomic and microeconomic conditions, geopolitical instability, preference for locally branded products, exchange rate fluctuations, increased difficulty in managing 2 Table of Contents inventory, challenges of staffing and managing foreign operations, the effect of international sales on our tax structure, and changes in local tax laws. For further information regarding these risks, refer to Item 1A, Risk Factors of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Best Buy Co., Inc. and affiliates and Amazon and affiliates each accounted for 10% or more of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Product Offerings Our products are built on a variety of proven technologies such as wireless (Wi-Fi and 4G/5G mobile), Ethernet and powerline, with a focus on reliability and ease-of-use. Our product line consists of devices that create and extend wired and wireless networks as well as devices that provide a special function and attach to the network, such as digital canvasses and smart mesh Wi-Fi speakers. These products are available in multiple configurations to address the changing needs of our customers in each geographic region in which our products are sold. Auxiliary to these hardware offerings, we have added services for our installed base of customers through applications available via subscription models that deliver more features that enhance the experience with our products. Smart Home / Connected Home / Broadband access. Products that create and extend wired and wireless networks in homes and small businesses to connect devices to the internet, enable connection to broadband networks, as well as devices that connect to the internet in delivering functionality. These products are sold primarily via brick and mortar retail, e-commerce, and service provider channels and include: Broadband modems, which are devices that convert the broadband signals into Ethernet data that feeds Internet into homes and offices. We provide modems that connect to DOCSIS 3.x, xDSL, FTTx, and 4G/5G mobile; Wi-Fi Gateways, which are Wi-Fi routers with an integrated broadband modem, for broadband Internet access; Wi-Fi Hotspots, which create mobile Wi-Fi Internet access that utilizes 4G/5G mobile and 5G data networks for use on the go, and at home in place of traditional wired broadband, Internet access; Wi-Fi routers and home Wi-Fi Systems, which create a local area network (LAN) for home or office computer, mobile and Smart Devices to connect and share a broadband Internet connection; Wi-Fi range extenders, which extend the range of an existing Wi-Fi network to eliminate Wi-Fi dead spots; Powerline adapters and bridges, which extend wired and Wi-Fi Internet connections to any AC outlet using existing electrical wiring; Wi-Fi network adapters, which enable computing devices to be connected to the network via Wi-Fi; Digital Canvasses, which enable users to display digital art and photos; and Value added service offerings such as technical support, parental controls and cybersecurity protection for consumers. Small and Medium business solutions. These products are sold into the small and medium business marketplace through an extensive network of DMRs and VARs, and increasingly through brick and mortar retail and e-commerce channels and include: Ethernet switches, which are multiple port devices used to network computing devices and peripherals via Ethernet wiring; Wireless controllers, access points and Wi-Fi systems, which are devices used to manage and control Wi-Fi on a campus or a facility providing Wi-Fi connections to smart phones, tablets, laptops and other computing devices; 3 Table of Contents Unified storage, which delivers file and block based data into a single shared storage system, meeting the demands of small enterprises, education, hospitality and health markets through an easy-to-use interface for managing multiple storage protocols; and Internet security appliances, which provide internet access through capabilities such as firewalls and Virtual Private Networks (VPNs). We design our products and services to meet the specific needs of the consumer, business and service provider markets, tailoring various elements of the software interface, the product design, including component specification, physical characteristics such as casing, design and coloration, and specific user interface features to meet the needs of these markets. We also leverage many of our technological developments, high volume manufacturing, technical support and engineering infrastructure across our markets to maximize business efficiencies. Our products that target the business market are generally designed with an industrial appearance, including metal cases and, for some product categories, the ability to mount the product within standard data networking racks as well as unique mounting solutions for other uses. These products typically include higher port counts, higher data transfer rates and other performance characteristics designed to meet the needs of a business user. For example, we offer data transfer rates up to ten gigabits per second for our business products to meet the higher capacity requirements of business users. Some of these products are also designed to support transmission modes such as fiber optic cabling, which is common in more sophisticated business environments. Security requirements within our products for business broadband access include firewall and VPN capabilities that allow for secure interactions between remote offices and business headquarter locations over the internet. Our connectivity product offerings for the business market include enhanced security and remote configurability often required in a business setting. Our ReadyNAS family of network attached storage products implements redundant arrays of independent disks (RAID) data protection, enabling businesses to store and protect critical data easily, efficiently and intelligently. Our vision for the home network is about intelligently controlling and monitoring all devices connected to the home network at all times, thus creating a Smart Environment. Our focus is to continue to introduce new products and services into growth areas that form the basis of Smart Homes, such as: the fastest Wi-Fi standards with broadest coverage via latest technology (802.11ax) Wi-Fi routers and home Wi-Fi systems; high speed DOCSIS 3.1, xDSL and fiber gateways with more integrated functions; 5G mobile gateways and mobile hotspots; Digital Canvasses; and other automation devices. We continue to announce and introduce new products in these key markets. Our vision for the business network is to increase the effectiveness, efficiency and supportability of the hybrid cloud access network. We believe small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to move into cloud-based applications, such as: Salesforce.com, Ring Central, Zoom video conferencing, SuccessFactors, Workday, and others. In addition, we believe these enterprises will move into utility-like on demand computing power supplied by third party data centers. Also, increasingly more enterprises are enabling the BYOD (bring your own device) environment allowing smart phones, tablets, and netbooks to be the business computing devices of choice. We believe that the need for cost efficient and easy-to-use video surveillance by small businesses and corporate offices will continue to grow and fuel the growth of our POE(+) market, with its ability to power 4K cameras. These trends will place a greater demand on business networks. To meet this demand we are introducing next generation technology, such as: Enhanced Power over Ethernet (PoE) switches, Multi-gigabit Ethernet switches, Wi-Fi mesh systems, high capacity local and remote unified storage, small to medium capacity campus wireless LAN, and security appliances. In addition, our Insight line of cloud-connected networking devices can be managed remotely and securely via mobile Apps or Browser interfaces, providing continuous monitoring and instantaneous fault notification. Competition The consumer, business and service provider markets are intensely competitive and subject to rapid technological change. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Our principal competitors include: within the consumer markets, companies such as ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Linksys (owned by Foxconn), Devolo, D-Link, Eero (which recently agreed to be purchased by Amazon), Google, Samsung, Synology, Symantec, TP Link, and Western Digital; within the business markets, companies such as Allied Telesys, Barracuda, Buffalo, Cisco Systems, Dell, D-Link, Fortinet, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, QNAP Systems, Seagate Technology, SonicWall, Synology, TP Link, Ubiquiti, WatchGuard and Western Digital; and 4 Table of Contents within the service provider markets, companies such as Actiontec, Airties, Arcadyan, ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Compal Broadband, D-Link, Eero (which recently agreed to be purchased by Amazon), Franklin, Google, Hitron, Huawei, Novatel Wireless, Plume, Sagem, Sercomm, SMC Networks, TechniColor, TP-Link, Ubee, ZTE and ZyXEL. Our potential competitors include other consumer electronics vendors, including Amazon, Apple, LG Electronics, Microsoft, Panasonic, Sony, Toshiba and Vizio, who could integrate networking and streaming capabilities into their line of products, such as televisions, set top boxes, voice assistants and gaming consoles, and our channel customers who may decide to offer self-branded networking products. We also face competition from service providers who may bundle a free networking device with their broadband service offering, which would reduce our sales if we were not the supplier of choice to those service providers. In the service provider space, we also face significant and increased competition from original design manufacturers ("ODMs") and contract manufacturers ("CMs") who are selling and attempting to sell their products directly to service providers around the world. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. As a result, they may have more advanced technology, larger distribution channels, stronger brand names, better customer service and access to more customers than we do. For example, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise has significant brand name recognition and has an advertising presence substantially greater than ours. Similarly, Cisco Systems is well recognized as a leader in providing networking products to businesses, while Google competes in the consumer Wi-Fi product market, and both have substantially greater financial resources than we do. Several of our competitors, such as TP-Link, offer a range of products that directly compete with most of our product offerings. Several of our other competitors primarily compete in a more limited manner. For example, Cisco and Dell sell networking products primarily targeted at larger businesses or enterprises. However, the competitive environment in which we operate changes rapidly. Other companies with significant resources could also become direct competitors, either through acquiring a competitor or through internal efforts. We believe that the principal competitive factors in the consumer, business and service provider markets for networking products include product breadth, size and scope of the sales channel, brand name, timeliness of new product introductions, product availability, performance, features, functionality and reliability, price, ease-of-installation, maintenance and use, and customer service and support. We believe our products are competitive in these markets based on these factors. To remain competitive, we must invest significant resources in developing new products and enhancing our current products while continuing to expand our sales channels and maintaining customer satisfaction worldwide. Research and Development Our success depends on our ability to develop products that meet changing user needs and to anticipate and proactively respond to evolving technology in a timely and cost-effective manner. Accordingly, we have made investments in our research and development department in order to effectively evaluate existing and new third-party technologies, develop existing and new in-house technologies, and develop and test new products and services. Our research and development employees work closely with our technology and manufacturing partners to bring our products to market in a timely, high quality and cost-efficient manner. We identify, qualify or self-develop new technologies to develop products using one or more of the methodologies described below. ODM. Under the ODM methodology, we define the product concept and specification and recommend the technology selection. We then coordinate with our technology suppliers while they develop the product meeting our specification. On certain new products, one or more subsystems of the design can be done in-house and then integrated with the remaining design pieces from the ODM. Once prototypes are completed, we work with our partners to complete the debugging and systems integration and testing. After completion of the final tests, agency approvals and product documentation, the product is released for production. In-House Development. Under the in-house development model, one or more subsystems of the product are designed and developed utilizing the NETGEAR engineering team. Under this model, some of the primary technology is developed in-house. We then work closely with either an ODM or a Joint Development Manufacturer ("JDM") to complete the development of the entire design, perform the necessary testing, and obtain regulatory approvals before the product is released for production. 5 Table of Contents Manufacturing Our primary manufacturers are Cloud Network Technology (more commonly known as HonHai Precision or Foxconn Corporation), Delta Electronics Incorporated, Wistron NeWeb Corporation, and Pegatron Corporation, all of which are headquartered in Taiwan. Beginning in September 2018 and upon the introduction of Section 301 tariffs by the US government on a significant number of US bound products manufactured in China, we commenced a plan to migrate manufacturing locations substantially away from mainland China. We expect this migration to be completed by the end of the second quarter of 2019 and upon completion substantially all of our manufacturing relating to US bound products will occur in Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia and Taiwan. Products sourced for markets outside of the US will continue to be substantially manufactured in China and Vietnam. We distribute our manufacturing among our key suppliers to avoid excessive concentration with a single supplier. However, there has been an increase in supplier concentration since 2015 and we expect this concentration to continue over the course of 2019 to 2020. Any disruptions from natural disasters, health epidemics and political, social and economic instability would affect the ability of our manufacturers to manufacture our products. If our manufacturers or warehousing facilities are disrupted or destroyed, we would have no other readily available alternatives for manufacturing our products and our business would be significantly impacted. In addition to their responsibility for the manufacturing of our products, our manufacturers typically purchase all necessary parts and materials to produce complete, finished goods. To maintain quality standards for our suppliers, we have established our own product quality organization based in Hong Kong and mainland China. They are responsible for auditing and inspecting process and product quality on the premises of our ODMs and JDMs. We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources. For example, many of the semiconductors used in our products are designed specifically for our products and are obtained from sole source suppliers on a purchase order basis. In addition, some components that are used in our products are obtained from limited sources. These components include connector jacks, plastic casings and physical layer transceivers. From a limited number of suppliers, we obtain switching fabric semiconductors, which are used in our Ethernet switches and internet gateway products; wireless local area network chipsets which are used in our wireless products and mobile network chipsets which are used in our wireless gateways and hotspots. Our third party manufacturers generally purchase these components on our behalf on a purchase order basis. If these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements, our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries would be harmed and we may lose sales and experience increased component costs. We currently outsource warehousing and distribution logistics to four main third-party providers who are responsible for warehousing, distribution logistics and order fulfillment. In addition, these parties are also responsible for some configuration and re-packaging of our products including bundling components to form kits, inserting appropriate documentation, disk drive configuration, and adding power adapters. APL Logistics Americas, Ltd. in City of Industry, California serves the Americas region, Kerry Logistics Ltd. in Hong Kong serves the Asia Pacific region, DSV Solutions B.V. Netherlands serves the EMEA region, and Brightstar Logistics Pty Ltd. in Melbourne, VIC, Australia serves Australia and New Zealand. Sales and Marketing We work directly with our customers on market development activities, such as co-advertising, online promotions and video demonstrations, event sponsorship and sales associate training. We also participate in major industry trade shows and marketing events. Our marketing department is comprised of our channel marketing, product marketing and corporate marketing groups. Our channel marketing team focuses on working with the sales teams to maximize our participation in channel partner marketing activities and merchandise our products both online and in store. Our product marketing group focuses on product strategy, product development roadmaps, the new product introduction process, product lifecycle management, demand assessment and competitive analysis. The group works closely with our sales and research and development groups to align our product development roadmap to meet customer technology demands from a strategic perspective. The group also ensures that product development activities, product launches, and ongoing demand and supply planning occur in a well-managed, timely basis in coordination with our development, manufacturing, and sales groups, as well as our ODM and sales channel partners. Our corporate marketing group is responsible for defining and building our corporate brand and supporting the business units with creative and marketing strategies and tactics. The group focuses on defining our brand promise and marketing messages on a worldwide basis. This group is also responsible for driving the social media and online marketing strategy, public relations, 6 Table of Contents install base marketing programs, community engagement programs, sponsorships and events, and corporate websites worldwide, as well as creative production for all product categories. We conduct most of our international sales and marketing operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries, which operate via sales and marketing subsidiaries and branch offices worldwide. Customer Support We design our products with ease-of-use top of mind. We respond globally to customer inquiries through a variety of channels including phone, chat, community, social, and email. Customers can also get self-help service through the comprehensive knowledgebase and the user forum from our website. Customer support is provided through a combination of a limited number of permanent employees and use of subcontracted, out-sourced resources. Our permanent employees design our technical support database and are responsible for training and managing our outsourced sub-contractors. They also handle escalations from the outsourced resources. We utilize the information gained from customers by our customer support organization to enhance our product offerings, including further simplifying the installation process. In 2018 we migrated to a unified platform to create efficiency and improve our customer experience. Intellectual Property We believe that our continued success will depend primarily on the technical expertise, speed of technology implementation, creative skills and management abilities of our officers and key employees, plus ownership of a limited but important set of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and patents. We primarily rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, and patent laws, nondisclosure agreements with employees, consultants and suppliers and other contractual provisions to establish, maintain and protect our proprietary rights. We hold approximately 197 issued United States patents that expire between years 2019 and 2037 and 93 foreign patents that expire between 2019 and 2035. In addition, we currently have approximately 109 pending United States and foreign patent applications related to technology and products offered by us. We also rely on third-party licensors for patented hardware and software license rights in technology that are incorporated into and are necessary for the operation and functionality of our products. Our success will depend in part on our continued ability to have access to these technologies. We have trade secret rights for our products, consisting mainly of product design, technical product documentation and software. We also own, or have applied for registration of trademarks, in connection with our products in the United States and internationally, including NETGEAR, NETGEAR Armor, NPG, NPG logo, Everybodys Connecting, AirCard, AirCard Enabled, Around Town, Orbi, Genie, Genie+, the Genie logo, ReadyShare, Neo TV, the Neo TV logo, ProSafe, RangeMax, ReadyNAS, ReadyDrop, ReadyData, ReadyCloud, ReadyDLNA, ReadyRecover, ProSecure, the ProSecure logo, Push2TV, Streampro, Centria, My Media, Nighthawk, Nighthawk x4, Nighthawk x6, Overdrive, Overdrive 3G/4G Mobile Hotspot logo, Zing Mobile Hotspot, Mingle, Ufast, NETGEAR Insight, NETGEAR UP, VIZN, FASTLANE, FASTLANE3, Meural, Trueart, Digital Canvas, and X-RAID. We have registered a number of internet domain names that we use for electronic interaction with our customers including dissemination of product information, marketing programs, product registration, sales activities, and other commercial uses. Seasonal Business We have historically experienced increased net sales in our third and fourth fiscal quarters as compared to the first and second quarters in our fiscal year due to seasonal demand from consumer markets primarily relating to the beginning of the school year and the holiday season. This pronounced seasonality has been previously offset by irregular and significant purchases from customers in other markets, such as the service provider market. As the proportion of our revenue derived from consumer focused products grows relative to our overall business, the impact of the seasonally high third and fourth fiscal quarters shall become more pronounced than experienced in prior years. Backlog Our backlog consists of products for which customer purchase orders have been received and that are scheduled or in the process of being scheduled for shipment. As we typically fulfill orders received within a relatively short period (e.g., within a few weeks for our top three customers) after receipt, our revenue in any fiscal year depends primarily upon orders booked and the availability of supply of our products in that year. In addition, most of our backlog is subject to rescheduling or cancellation 7 Table of Contents with minimal penalties. As a result, our backlog as of any particular date may not be an indicator of revenue for any succeeding period. Similarly, there is a lack of meaningful correlation between year-over-year changes in backlog as compared with year-over-year changes in revenue. Accordingly, we do not believe that backlog information is material to an understanding of our overall business, and backlog as of any particular date should not be considered a reliable indicator of our ability to achieve any particular level of revenue or financial performance. Environmental Laws Our products and manufacturing process are subject to numerous governmental regulations, which cover both the use of various materials as well as environmental concerns. Environmental issues such as pollution and climate change have had significant legislative and regulatory efforts on a global basis, and there are expected to be additional changes to the regulations in these areas. These changes could directly increase the cost of energy, which may have an impact on the way we manufacture products or utilize energy to produce our products. In addition, any new regulations or laws in the environmental area might increase the cost of raw materials we use in our products and the cost of compliance. Other regulations in the environmental area may require us to continue to monitor and ensure proper disposal or recycling of our products. To the best of our knowledge, we maintain compliance with all current government regulations concerning our production processes for all locations in which we operate. Since we operate on a global basis, this is also a complex process that requires continual monitoring of regulations and an ongoing compliance process to ensure that we and our suppliers are in compliance with all existing regulations. Employees As of December 31, 2018 , we had 837 full-time employees, with 312 in sales, marketing and technical support, 274 in research and development, 108 in operations, and 143 in finance, information systems and administration. We also utilize a number of temporary staff to supplement our workforce. We have never had a work stoppage among our employees and no personnel are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), are filed with the Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Our website provides a link to our SEC filings, which are available free of charge on the same day such filings are made. The specific location on the website where these reports can be found is http://investor.netgear.com/sec.cfm. Our website also provides a link to Section 16 filings which are available free of charge on the same day as such filings are made. Information contained on these websites is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages and positions of our executive officers as of February 15, 2019. Name Age Position Patrick C.S. Lo 62 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Bryan D. Murray 44 Chief Financial Officer Michael F. Falcon 62 Chief Operations Officer David J. Henry 46 Senior Vice President, Connected Home Products and Services Andrew W. Kim 48 Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary John P. McHugh 58 Senior Vice President, SMB Products and Services Mark G. Merrill 64 Chief Technology Officer Tamesa T. Rogers 45 Senior Vice President, Human Resources Michael A. Werdann 50 Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales Patrick C.S. Lo is our co-founder and has served as our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since March 2002. He previously served as interim general manager of our former retail business unit and as interim general manager of our former 8 Table of Contents service provider business unit. Patrick founded NETGEAR with Mark G. Merrill with the singular vision of providing the appliances to enable everyone in the world to connect to the high speed Internet for information, communication, business transactions, education, and entertainment. From 1983 until 1995, Mr. Lo worked at Hewlett-Packard Company, where he served in various management positions in sales, technical support, product management, and marketing in the U.S. and Asia. Mr. Lo was named the Ernst & Young National Technology Entrepreneur of the Year in 2006. Mr. Lo received a B.S. degree in electrical engineering from Brown University. Bryan D. Murray has served as our Chief Financial Officer since August 2018. He has been with NETGEAR since November 2001, serving in various management roles within the finance organization. Prior to assuming the role of CFO, he served as NETGEARs Vice President of Finance and Corporate Controller since June 2011. Before joining NETGEAR in 2001, he worked in public accounting at Deloitte and Touche LLP. He holds a B.A. from the University of California, Santa Barbara and is licensed as a Certified Public Accountant. Michael F. Falcon has served as our Chief Operations Officer since November 2017, Senior Vice President of Worldwide Operations and Support from January 2009 to November 2017, Senior Vice President of Operations from March 2006 to January 2009, and Vice President of Operations from November 2002 to March 2006. Prior to joining us, Mr. Falcon was at Quantum Corporation, where he served as Vice President of Operations and Supply Chain Management from September 1999 to November 2002, Meridian Data (acquired by Quantum Corporation), where he served as Vice President of Operations from April 1999 to September 1999, and Silicon Valley Group, where he served as Director of Operations, Strategic Planning and Supply Chain Management from February 1989 to April 1999. Prior to February 1989, Mr. Falcon served in management positions at SCI Systems, an electronics manufacturer, Xerox Imaging Systems, a provider of scanning and text recognition solutions, and Plantronics, Inc., a provider of lightweight communication headsets. Mr. Falcon received a B.A. degree in Economics with honors from the University of California, Santa Cruz and has completed coursework in the M.B.A. program at Santa Clara University. David J. Henry has served as our Senior Vice President of Connected Home Products and Services since January 2017. He has worldwide responsibility for both Product Marketing and Engineering of our home networking products, encompassing product strategy, development and delivery. He has been with NETGEAR since July 2004, most recently serving as our Senior Vice President of Home Networking from January 2016 to December 2016, Vice President of Product Management of our retail business unit from March 2011 to January 2016 and as our Senior Director of Product Marketing from October 2010 to March 2011. Prior to NETGEAR, Mr. Henry was a senior product manager for the high technology vertical application at Siebel Systems (acquired by Oracle Corporation). His professional experience also includes business process and information technology consulting with Deloitte Consulting. Mr. Henry received a B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering, with an emphasis on Signal Processing, from the University of Washington and an M.B.A. from the Stanford Graduate School of Business. Andrew W. Kim has served as our Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since July 2013, Vice President, Legal and Corporate Development and Corporate Secretary from October 2008 until July 2013, and as our Associate General Counsel from March 2008 to October 2008. Prior to joining NETGEAR, Mr. Kim served as Special Counsel in the Corporate and Securities Department of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, a private law firm, where he represented public and private technology companies in a wide range of matters, including mergers and acquisitions, debt and equity financing arrangements, securities law compliance and corporate governance from 2000 to 2003 and 2006 to 2008. In between his two terms at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, Mr. Kim served as Partner in the Business and Finance Department of the law firm Schwartz Cooper Chartered in Chicago, Illinois, and was an Adjunct Professor of Entrepreneurship at the Illinois Institute of Technology. Mr. Kim holds a J.D. from Cornell Law School, and received a B.A. degree in history from Yale University. John P. McHugh has served as our Senior Vice President of SMB Products and Services since January 2017, overseeing the development and delivery of the industrys premiere line of networking and storage solutions for SMB customers. He previously served as our Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Commercial Business Unit from July 2013 to December 2016. Prior to joining us in July 2013, Mr. McHugh led the commercial networking business at both Nortel and Hewlett-Packard. During his career, Mr. McHugh has held leadership roles in R&D, Marketing and Manufacturing, as well as having over 12 years of experience in General Management. Mr. McHugh holds a BS degree in Electrical Engineering and in Computer Science from Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology. Mark G. Merrill is our co-founder and has served as our Chief Technology Officer since March 2015. In this role, Mr. Merrill continues to guide the emerging market efforts and work closely with the RF engineering team to ensure technical leadership of our wireless networking products. Previously, Mr. Merrill served as our Senior Vice President of Advanced 9 Table of Contents Engineering from February 2013 to February 2015 and as our Chief Technology Officer from January 2003 to April 2013. From September 1999 to January 2003, he served as Vice President of Engineering and served as Director of Engineering from September 1995 to September 1999. Mr. Merrill received both a B.S. degree and an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from Stanford University. Tamesa T. Rogers has served as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources since July 2013, Vice President, Human Resources from January 2009 to July 2013, Director, Worldwide Human Resources from September 2006 to January 2009 and as our Senior Human Resources Manager from December 2003 to September 2006. From March 2000 to December 2003, Ms. Rogers worked at TriNet Employer Group, a professional employer organization, as a Human Resources Manager, providing HR consulting to technology companies throughout Silicon Valley. Prior to TriNet, Ms. Rogers served in various human resources functions in several Northern California companies. Ms. Rogers received a B.A. in Communication Studies from the University of California, Santa Barbara and an M.S. in Counseling from California State University, Hayward. Michael A. Werdann has served as our Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales since October 2015, Worldwide Senior Vice President of Sales for Consumer Products from March 2015 to October 2015 and Vice President of Americas Sales from December 2003 to March 2015. Since joining us in 1998, Mr. Werdann has served as our United States Director of Sales, E-Commerce and DMR from December 2002 to December 2003 and as our Eastern Regional Sales Director from October 1998 to December 2002. Prior to joining us, Mr. Werdann worked for three years at Iomega Corporation, a computer hardware company, as a Sales Director for the value added reseller sector. Mr. Werdann holds a B.S. Degree in Communications from Seton Hall University. Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. The risks described below are not exhaustive of the risks that might affect our business. Other risks, including those we currently deem immaterial, may also impact our business. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business operations, results of operations and financial condition and could result in a significant decline in our stock price. Before deciding to purchase, hold or sell our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described in this section. This section should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto, and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Our operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate substantially from quarter-to-quarter or year-to-year for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. If our actual results were to fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts or investors, our quarterly and annual results would be negatively impacted and the price of our stock could decline. Other factors that could affect our quarterly and annual operating results include those listed in the risk factors section of this report and others such as: changes in the pricing policies of or the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; changes in U.S. and international tax and trade policy that adversely affect customs, tax or duty rates, such as the higher tariffs on products imported from China enacted by the current U.S. administration; introductions of new technologies and changes in consumer preferences that result in either unanticipated or unexpectedly rapid product category shifts; slow or negative growth in the networking product, personal computer, Internet infrastructure, smart home, home electronics and related technology markets, as well as decreased demand for Internet access; seasonal shifts in end market demand for our products, particularly in our Connected Home business segment; delays in the introduction of new products by us or market acceptance of these products; unanticipated decreases or delays in purchases of our products by our significant traditional and online retail customers; 10 Table of Contents component supply constraints or sudden, unforeseen price increases from our vendors; unanticipated increases in costs, including air freight, associated with shipping and delivery of our products; discovery or exploitation of security vulnerabilities in our products, services or systems, leading to negative publicity, decreased demand or potential liability, including potential breach of our customers' data privacy or disruption of the continuous operation of our cloud infrastructure and our in-use products; shift in overall product mix sales from higher to lower margin products, or from one business segment to another, that would adversely impact our margins; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations in the jurisdictions where we transact sales and expenditures in local currency; the inability to maintain stable operations by our suppliers and other parties with which we have commercial relationships; unfavorable level of inventory and turns; changes in or consolidation of our sales channels and wholesale distributor relationships or failure to manage our sales channel inventory and warehousing requirements; delay or failure to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; delay or failure of our service provider customers to purchase at their historic volumes or at the volumes that they or we forecast; changes in tax rates or adverse changes in tax laws that expose us to additional income tax liabilities; operational disruptions, such as transportation delays or failure of our order processing system, particularly if they occur at the end of a fiscal quarter; disruptions or delays related to our financial and enterprise resource planning systems; our inability to accurately forecast product demand, resulting in increased inventory exposure; allowance for doubtful accounts exposure with our existing retailers, distributors and other channel partners and new retailers, distributors and other channel partners, particularly as we expand into new international markets; geopolitical disruption, including sudden changes in immigration policies, leading to disruption in our workforce or delay or even stoppage of our operations in manufacturing, transportation, technical support and research and development; terms of our contracts with customers or suppliers that cause us to incur additional expenses or assume additional liabilities; an increase in price protection claims, redemptions of marketing rebates, product warranty and stock rotation returns or allowance for doubtful accounts; litigation involving alleged patent infringement; epidemic or widespread product failure, or unanticipated safety issues, in one or more of our products; any changes in accounting rules, including the potential impact of our adoption of new revenue recognition standards; challenges associated with integrating acquisitions that we make, or with realizing value from our strategic investments in other companies; 11 Table of Contents failure to effectively manage our third party customer support partners, which may result in customer complaints and/or harm to the NETGEAR brand; our inability to monitor and ensure compliance with our code of ethics, our anti-corruption compliance program and domestic and international anti-corruption laws and regulations, whether in relation to our employees or with our suppliers or customers; labor unrest at facilities managed by our third-party manufacturers; workplace or human rights violations in certain countries in which our third-party manufacturers or suppliers operate, which may affect the NETGEAR brand and negatively affect our products acceptance by consumers; unanticipated shifts or declines in profit by geographical region that would adversely impact our tax rate; our failure to implement and maintain the appropriate internal controls over financial reporting which may result in restatements of our financial statements; and any changes in accounting rules. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our stock price may be volatile and your investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of technology and other companies, which may be unrelated to the financial performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Some specific factors that may have a significant effect on our common stock market price include: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results or our competitors' operating results; actual or anticipated changes in the growth rate of the general networking sector, our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates; conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions, including government efforts to stabilize currencies; actual or anticipated changes in governmental regulation, including taxation and tariff policies; interest rate or currency exchange rate fluctuations; our ability to forecast or report accurate financial results; and changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or our industry generally. Some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and to be competitive we may be required to lower our prices or increase our sales and marketing expenses, which could result in reduced margins or loss of market share. We compete in a rapidly evolving and fiercely competitive market, and we expect competition to continue to be intense, including price competition. Our principal competitors in the consumer market include ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Devolo, D-Link, Eero (which recently agreed to be purchased by Amazon), Google, Linksys (owned by Foxconn), Samsung, Synology, Symantec, TP-Link and Western Digital. Our principal competitors in the business market include Allied Telesys, Barracuda, Buffalo, Cisco Systems, Dell, D-Link, Fortinet, Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, QNAP Systems, Seagate Technology, SonicWall, Synology, TP-Link, Ubiquiti, WatchGuard and Western Digital. Our principal competitors in the service provider market include Actiontec, Airties, Arcadyan, ARRIS, ASUS, AVM, Compal Broadband, D-Link, Eero, Franklin, Google, Hitron, Huawei, Novatel Wireless, Plume, Sagem, Sercomm, SMC Networks, TechniColor, TP-Link, Ubee, ZTE and Zyxel. Other competitors include numerous 12 Table of Contents local vendors such as Xiaomi in China, AVM in Germany and Buffalo in Japan. In addition, these local vendors may target markets outside of their local regions and may increasingly compete with us in other regions worldwide. Our potential competitors also include other consumer electronics vendors, including Apple, LG Electronics, Microsoft, Panasonic, Sony, Toshiba and Vizio, who could integrate networking and streaming capabilities into their line of products, such as televisions, set top boxes and gaming consoles, and our channel customers who may decide to offer self-branded networking products. We also face competition from service providers who may bundle a free networking device with their broadband service offering, which would reduce our sales if we were not the supplier of choice to those service providers. In the service provider space, we are also facing significant and increased competition from original design manufacturers, or ODMs, and contract manufacturers who are selling and attempting to sell their products directly to service providers around the world. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources. These competitors may, among other things, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, obtain more favorable pricing from suppliers and manufacturers, and exert more influence on sales channels than we can. Certain of our significant competitors also serve as key sales and marketing channels for our products, potentially giving these competitors a marketplace advantage based on their knowledge of our business activities and/or their ability to negatively influence our sales opportunities. For example, Amazon provides an important sales channel for our products, and it recently announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Eero, one of our competitors in the mesh Wi-Fi systems market. In addition, certain competitors may have different business models, such as integrated manufacturing capabilities, that may allow them to achieve cost savings and to compete on the basis of price. Other competitors may have fewer resources, but may be more nimble in developing new or disruptive technology or in entering new markets. We anticipate that current and potential competitors will also intensify their efforts to penetrate our target markets. For example, price competition is intense in our industry in certain geographical regions and product categories. Many of our competitors in the service provider and retail spaces price their products significantly below our product costs in order to gain market share. Certain substantial competitors have business models that are more focused on customer acquisition and access to customer data rather than on financial return from product sales, and these competitors have the ability to provide sustained price competition to many of our products in the market. Average sales prices have declined in the past and may again decline in the future. These competitors may have more advanced technology, more extensive distribution channels, stronger brand names, greater access to shelf space in retail locations, bigger promotional budgets and larger customer bases than we do. In addition, many of these competitors leverage a broader product portfolio and offer lower pricing as part of a more comprehensive end-to-end solution which we may not have. These companies could devote more capital resources to develop, manufacture and market competing products than we could. Our competitors may acquire other companies in the market and leverage combined resources to gain market share. In some instances, our competitors may be acquired by larger companies with additional formidable resources, such as the pending purchase of ARRIS by CommScope. If any of these companies are successful in competing against us, our sales could decline, our margins could be negatively impacted and we could lose market share, any of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. If we fail to continue to introduce or acquire new products that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively and we will be unable to increase or maintain net revenue and gross margins. We operate in a highly competitive, quickly changing environment, and our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire, and introduce new products that achieve broad market acceptance. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify demand trends in the consumer, business and service provider markets, and to quickly develop or acquire, and manufacture and sell products that satisfy these demands in a cost-effective manner. In order to differentiate our products from our competitors' products, we must continue to increase our focus and capital investment in research and development, including software development. For example, we have committed a substantial amount of resources to the development, manufacture, marketing and sale of our Nighthawk home networking products and Orbi Wi-Fi system, and to introducing additional and improved models in these lines. If these products do not continue to maintain or achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unsuccessful in capitalizing on other smart home market opportunities, our future growth may be slowed and our financial results could be harmed. Also, as the mix of our business increasingly includes new products and services that require additional investment, this shift may adversely impact our margins, at least in the near-term. Successfully predicting demand trends is difficult, and it is very difficult to predict the effect that introducing a new product will have on existing product sales. We will also need to respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competitive products. In addition, we have acquired companies and technologies in the past and as a result, have introduced new product lines in new markets. We may not be able to successfully manage integration of the new product lines with our existing products. Selling new product lines in new markets will require our management to learn different strategies in order to be successful. We may be unsuccessful in launching a newly acquired product line in new markets which requires management of new suppliers, potential new customers and new business models. Our management may not have the experience of selling in these new markets and we may not be able to grow our business as planned. For example, in August 2018, we acquired Meural Inc., a leader in digital 13 Table of Contents platforms for visual art, to enhance our Connected Home product and service offerings. If we are unable to effectively and successfully further develop these new product lines, we may not be able to increase or maintain our sales and our gross margins may be adversely affected. We have experienced delays and quality issues in releasing new products in the past, which resulted in lower quarterly net revenue than expected. In addition, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, product introductions that fall short of our projected rates of market adoption. Online Internet reviews of our products are increasingly becoming a significant factor in the success of our new product launches, especially in our Connected Home business segment. If we are unable to quickly respond to negative reviews, including end user reviews posted on various prominent online retailers, our ability to sell these products will be harmed. Any future delays in product development and introduction, or product introductions that do not meet broad market acceptance, or unsuccessful launches of new product lines could result in: loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand; a decline in the average selling price of our products; adverse reactions in our sales channels, such as reduced shelf space, reduced online product visibility, or loss of sales channels; and increased levels of product returns. Throughout the past few years, we have significantly increased the rate of our new product introductions. If we cannot sustain that pace of product introductions, either through rapid innovation or acquisition of new products or product lines, we may not be able to maintain or increase the market share of our products. In addition, if we are unable to successfully introduce or acquire new products with higher gross margins, or if we are unable to improve the margins on our previously introduced and rapidly growing product lines, our net revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. We rely on a limited number of traditional and online retailers, wholesale distributors and service provider customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and our net revenue could decline if they refuse to pay our requested prices or reduce their level of purchases or if there is significant consolidation in our customer base that results in fewer customers for our products. We sell a substantial portion of our products through traditional and online retailers, including Best Buy Co., Inc., Amazon.com, Inc. and their affiliates, wholesale distributors, including Ingram Micro, Inc. and Tech Data Corporation, and service providers, such as AT&T. We expect that a significant portion of our net revenue will continue to come from sales to a small number of customers for the foreseeable future. In addition, because our accounts receivable are often concentrated with a small group of purchasers, the failure of any of them to pay on a timely basis, or at all, would reduce our cash flow. We are also exposed to increased credit risk if any one of these limited numbers of customers fails or becomes insolvent. We generally have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these customers. These purchasers could decide at any time to discontinue, decrease or delay their purchases of our products. If our customers increase the size of their product orders without sufficient lead-time for us to process the order, our ability to fulfill product demands would be compromised. These customers have a variety of suppliers to choose from and therefore can make substantial demands on us, including demands on product pricing and on contractual terms, which often results in the allocation of risk to us as the supplier. Accordingly, the prices that they pay for our products are subject to negotiation and could change at any time. Our ability to maintain strong relationships with our principal customers is essential to our future performance. If any of our major customers reduce their level of purchases or refuse to pay the prices that we set for our products, our net revenue and operating results could be harmed. Furthermore, some of our customers are also our competitors in certain product categories, which could negatively influence their purchasing decisions. For example, Amazon recently announced it has entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Eero, one of our competitors in the mesh Wi-Fi systems market. Our traditional retail customers have faced increased and significant competition from online retailers, and some of these traditional retail customers have increasingly become a smaller portion of our business. If key retail customers continue to reduce their level of purchases, our business could be harmed. Additionally, concentration and consolidation among our customer base may allow certain customers to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. If, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our products to a particular customer, which could result in a decrease in our revenue. Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our products, elimination of sales opportunities, replacement of our products with 14 Table of Contents those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which would harm our operating results. Consolidation among our service provider customers worldwide may also make it more difficult to grow our service provider business, given the fierce competition for the already limited number of service providers worldwide and the long sales cycles to close deals. If consolidation among our customer base becomes more prevalent, our operating results may be harmed. We obtain several key components from limited or sole sources, and if these sources fail to satisfy our supply requirements or we are unable to properly manage our supply requirements with our third-party manufacturers, we may lose sales and experience increased component costs. Any shortage or delay in the supply of key product components, or any sudden, unforeseen price increase for such components, would harm our ability to meet product deliveries as scheduled or as budgeted. Many of the semiconductors used in our products are specifically designed for use in our products and are obtained from sole source suppliers on a purchase order basis. In addition, some components that are used in all our products are obtained from limited sources. These components include connector jacks, plastic casings and physical layer transceivers. We also obtain switching fabric semiconductors, which are used in our Ethernet switches and Internet gateway products, and wireless local area network chipsets, which are used in all of our wireless products, from a limited number of suppliers. Semiconductor suppliers have experienced and continue to experience component shortages themselves, such as with substrates used in manufacturing chipsets, which in turn adversely impact our ability to procure semiconductors from them. Our third-party manufacturers generally purchase these components on our behalf on a purchase order basis, and we do not have any contractual commitments or guaranteed supply arrangements with our suppliers. If demand for a specific component increases, we may not be able to obtain an adequate number of that component in a timely manner. In addition, if worldwide demand for the components increases significantly, the availability of these components could be limited. Further, our suppliers may experience financial or other difficulties as a result of uncertain and weak worldwide economic conditions. Other factors which may affect our suppliers' ability or willingness to supply components to us include internal management or reorganizational issues, such as roll-out of new equipment which may delay or disrupt supply of previously forecasted components, or industry consolidation and divestitures, which may result in changed business and product priorities among certain suppliers. It could be difficult, costly and time consuming to obtain alternative sources for these components, or to change product designs to make use of alternative components. In addition, difficulties in transitioning from an existing supplier to a new supplier could create delays in component availability that would have a significant impact on our ability to fulfill orders for our products. We provide our third-party manufacturers with a rolling forecast of demand, which they use to determine our material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components have long lead times, such as wireless local area network chipsets, switching fabric chips, physical layer transceivers, connector jacks and metal and plastic enclosures. If our forecasts are not timely provided or are less than our actual requirements, our third-party manufacturers may be unable to manufacture products in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our third-party manufacturers will be unable to use the components they have purchased on our behalf. The cost of the components used in our products tends to drop rapidly as volumes increase and the technologies mature. Therefore, if our third-party manufacturers are unable to promptly use components purchased on our behalf, our cost of producing products may be higher than our competitors due to an oversupply of higher-priced components. Moreover, if they are unable to use components ordered at our direction, we will need to reimburse them for any losses they incur. If we are unable to obtain a sufficient supply of components, or if we experience any interruption in the supply of components, our product shipments could be reduced or delayed or our cost of obtaining these components may increase. Component shortages and delays affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries, damage our brand and reputation in the market, and cause us to lose sales and market share. For example, component shortages and disruptions in supply in the past have limited our ability to supply all the worldwide demand for our products, and our revenue was affected. At times we have elected to use more expensive transportation methods, such as air freight, to make up for manufacturing delays caused by component shortages, which reduces our margins. In addition, at times sole suppliers of highly specialized components have provided components that were either defective or did not meet the criteria required by our customers, resulting in delays, lost revenue opportunities and potentially substantial write-offs. Changes in trade policy in the United States and other countries, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. government has indicated and demonstrated its intent to alter its approach to international trade policy through the renegotiation, and potential termination, of certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements and treaties with, and the imposition of tariffs on a wide range of products and other goods from, a number of countries. In particular, while China currently enjoys most favored nation trading status with the United States, the U.S. government has proposed to revoke that 15 Table of Contents status and has implemented tariffs on a significant number of products manufactured in China. For example, a 10% tariff has already taken effect on certain products imported into the United States beginning on September 24, 2018, and this tariff rate is scheduled to increase to 25% for these products imported on and after March 2, 2019. Moreover, the current U.S. administration has indicated that it is considering expanding these tariffs to additional products imported from China. Our analysis of our supply chain, manufacturing processes and product compositions is ongoing, but our review to date indicates that some of our products are affected by these tariffs. Although we have been working closely with our manufacturing partners to assess and implement ways to mitigate the impact of these tariffs on our supply chain as promptly as reasonably practicable, including seeking to shift production outside of China, these efforts may disrupt our operations, may not be successful and may not be accomplished in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a result, we may be required to raise our prices on certain products, which could result in the loss of customers and harm to our market share, competitive position and operating performance. We depend on large, recurring purchases from certain significant customers, and a loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could negatively affect our revenue. The loss of recurring orders from any of our more significant customers could cause our revenue and profitability to suffer. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a variety of factors, including the cost-effectiveness, reliability, scalability, breadth and depth of our products. In addition, a change in the mix of our customers, or a change in the mix of direct and indirect sales, could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins. Although our financial performance may depend on large, recurring orders from certain customers and resellers, we do not generally have binding commitments from them. For example: our reseller agreements generally do not require substantial minimum purchases; our customers can stop purchasing and our resellers can stop marketing our products at any time; and our reseller agreements generally are not exclusive. Further, our revenue may be impacted by significant one-time purchases which are not contemplated to be repeatable. While such purchases are reflected in our financial statements, we do not rely on and do not forecast for continued significant one-time purchases. As a result, lack of repeatable one-time purchases will adversely affect our revenue. Because our expenses are based on our revenue forecasts, a substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to, or unexpected returns from, customers and resellers, or the loss of any significant customer or reseller, could harm or otherwise have a negative impact to our operating results. Although our largest customers may vary from period to period, we anticipate that our operating results for any given period will continue to depend on large orders from a small number of customers. We depend on a limited number of third-party manufacturers for substantially all of our manufacturing needs. If these third-party manufacturers experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, we could lose market share and our brand may suffer. All of our products are manufactured, assembled, tested and generally packaged by a limited number of third-party manufacturers, including original design manufacturers, or ODMs, as well as contract manufacturers. In most cases, we rely on these manufacturers to procure components and, in some cases, subcontract engineering work. Some of our products are manufactured by a single manufacturer. We do not have any long-term contracts with any of our third-party manufacturers. Some of these third-party manufacturers produce products for our competitors or are themselves competitors in certain product categories. Due to changing economic conditions, the viability of some of these third-party manufacturers may be at risk. Our ODMs are increasingly refusing to work with us on certain projects, such as projects for manufacturing products for our service provider customers. Because our service provider customers command significant resources, including for software support, and demand extremely competitive pricing, our ODMs are starting to refuse to engage on service provider terms. The loss of the services of any of our primary third-party manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in operations and delays in product shipments. Qualifying a new manufacturer and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. Ensuring that a contract manufacturer is qualified to manufacture our products to our standards is time consuming. In addition, there is no assurance that a contract manufacturer can scale its production of our products at the volumes and in the quality that we require. If a contract manufacturer is unable to do these things, we may have to move production for the products to a new or existing third party manufacturer which would take significant effort and our business may be harmed. In addition, as we contemplate moving manufacturing into different jurisdictions, we will be subject to additional significant challenges in ensuring that quality, processes and costs, among other issues, are consistent with our expectations. For example, while we expect our manufacturers to be responsible for penalties assessed on us because of excessive failures of the products, there is no assurance that we will be 16 Table of Contents able to collect such reimbursements from these manufacturers, which causes us to take on additional risk for potential failures of our products. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers also exposes us to the following risks over which we have limited control: unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; inability to control the quality and reliability of finished products; inability to control delivery schedules; potential liability for expenses incurred by third-party manufacturers in reliance on our forecasts that later prove to be inaccurate; potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and potential labor unrest affecting the ability of the third-party manufacturers to produce our products. All of our products must satisfy safety and regulatory standards and some of our products must also receive government certifications. Our third party manufacturers are primarily responsible for conducting the tests that support our applications for most regulatory approvals for our products. If our third party manufacturers fail to timely and accurately conduct these tests, we would be unable to obtain the necessary domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates to sell our products in certain jurisdictions. As a result, we would be unable to sell our products and our sales and profitability could be reduced, our relationships with our sales channel could be harmed, and our reputation and brand would suffer. Specifically, substantially all of our manufacturing and assembly occurs in the Asia Pacific region and any disruptions due to natural disasters, health epidemics and political, social and economic instability in the region would affect the ability of our third party manufacturers to manufacture our products. In addition, our third party manufacturers in China have continued to increase our costs of production, particularly in the past couple of years. If these costs continue to increase, it may affect our margins and ability to lower prices for our products to stay competitive. Labor unrest in China may also affect our third party manufacturers as workers may strike and cause production delays. If our third party manufacturers fail to maintain good relations with their employees or contractors, and production and manufacturing of our products is affected, then we may be subject to shortages of products and quality of products delivered may be affected. Further, if our manufacturers or warehousing facilities are disrupted or destroyed, we would have no other readily available alternatives for manufacturing and assembling our products and our business would be significantly harmed. As we continue to work with more third party manufacturers on a contract manufacturing basis, we are also exposed to additional risks not inherent in a typical ODM arrangement. Such risks may include our inability to properly source and qualify components for the products, lack of software expertise resulting in increased software defects, and lack of resources to properly monitor the manufacturing process. In our typical ODM arrangement, our ODMs are generally responsible for sourcing the components of the products and warranting that the products will work against a product's specification, including any software specifications. In a contract manufacturing arrangement, we would take on much more, if not all, of the responsibility around these areas. If we are unable to properly manage these risks, our products may be more susceptible to defects and our business would be harmed. Product security vulnerabilities, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our products or services, and any such disruption could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, harm our business and adversely affect our stock price. Our products and services may contain unknown security vulnerabilities. For example, the firmware, software and open source software that we or our manufacturing partners have installed on our products may be susceptible to hacking or misuse. In addition, we offer a comprehensive online cloud management service paired with a number of our products. If malicious actors compromise this cloud service, or if customer confidential information is accessed without authorization, our business will be harmed. Operating an online cloud service is a relatively new business for us and we may not have the expertise to properly manage risks related to data security and systems security. We rely on third-party providers for a number of critical aspects of our cloud services and customer support, including web hosting services, billing and payment processing, and consequently we do not maintain direct control over the security or stability of the associated systems. Our management has spent increasing amounts of time, effort and expense in this area, and in the event of the discovery of a significant product security vulnerability, we would incur additional substantial expenses and our business would be harmed. If we or our third-party providers are unable 17 Table of Contents to successfully prevent breaches of security relating to our products, services or customer private information, including customer personal identification information, or if these third-party systems failed for other reasons, it could result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. Global economic conditions could materially adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our business has been and may continue to be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control, such as general geopolitical, economic and business conditions, conditions in the financial markets, and changes in the overall demand for networking and smart home products. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our customers' financial condition and the levels of business activity of our customers. Weakness in, and uncertainty about, global economic conditions may cause businesses to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for networking products. In addition, availability of our products from third-party manufacturers and our ability to distribute our products into the United States and non-U.S. jurisdictions may be impacted by factors such as an increase in duties, tariffs or other restrictions on trade; raw material shortages, work stoppages, strikes and political unrest; economic crises and international disputes or conflicts; changes in leadership and the political climate in countries from which we import products; and failure of the United States to maintain normal trade relations with China and other countries. Any of these occurrences could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition In the recent past, various regions worldwide have experienced slow economic growth. In addition, current economic challenges in China, including any global economic ramifications of these challenges, may continue to put negative pressure on global economic conditions. If conditions in the global economy, including Europe, China, Australia and the United States, or other key vertical or geographic markets deteriorate, such conditions could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, the economic problems affecting the financial markets and the uncertainty in global economic conditions resulted in a number of adverse effects including a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, extreme volatility in credit, equity, currency and fixed income markets, instability in the stock market and high unemployment. For example, the challenges faced by the European Union to stabilize some of its member economies, such as Greece, Portugal, Spain, Hungary and Italy, have had international implications affecting the stability of global financial markets and hindering economies worldwide. Many member nations in the European Union have been addressing the issues with controversial austerity measures. In addition, the potential consequences of the "Brexit" process in the United Kingdom have led to significant uncertainty in the region. Should the European Union monetary policy measures be insufficient to restore confidence and stability to the financial markets, or should the United Kingdom's "Brexit" decision lead to additional economic or political instability, the global economy, including the U.S., U.K. and European Union economies where we have a significant presence, could be hindered, which could have a material adverse effect on us. There could also be a number of other follow-on effects from these economic developments on our business, including the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products; customer insolvencies; decreased customer confidence to make purchasing decisions; decreased customer demand; and decreased customer ability to pay their trade obligations. If we do not effectively manage our sales channel inventory and product mix, we may incur costs associated with excess inventory, or lose sales from having too few products. If we are unable to properly monitor and manage our sales channel inventory and maintain an appropriate level and mix of products with our wholesale distributors and within our sales channels, we may incur increased and unexpected costs associated with this inventory. We generally allow wholesale distributors and traditional retailers to return a limited amount of our products in exchange for other products. Under our price protection policy, if we reduce the list price of a product, we are often required to issue a credit in an amount equal to the reduction for each of the products held in inventory by our wholesale distributors and retailers. If our wholesale distributors and retailers are unable to sell their inventory in a timely manner, we might lower the price of the products, or these parties may exchange the products for newer products. Also, during the transition from an existing product to a new replacement product, we must accurately predict the demand for the existing and the new product. We determine production levels based on our forecasts of demand for our products. Actual demand for our products depends on many factors, which makes it difficult to forecast. We have experienced differences between our actual and our forecasted demand in the past and expect differences to arise in the future. If we improperly forecast demand for our products we could end up with too many products and be unable to sell the excess inventory in a timely manner, if at all, or, alternatively we could end 18 Table of Contents up with too few products and not be able to satisfy demand. This problem is exacerbated because we attempt to closely match inventory levels with product demand leaving limited margin for error. If these events occur, we could incur increased expenses associated with writing off excessive or obsolete inventory, lose sales, incur penalties for late delivery or have to ship products by air freight to meet immediate demand incurring incremental freight costs above the sea freight costs, a preferred method, and suffering a corresponding decline in gross margins. System security risks, data protection breaches and cyber-attacks could disrupt our products, services, internal operations or information technology systems, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. Maintaining the security of our computer information systems and communication systems is a critical issue for us and our customers. Malicious actors may develop and deploy malware that is designed to manipulate our systems, including our internal network, or those of our vendors or customers. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our information technology systems, our data or our customers' data. We have established a crisis management plan and business continuity program. While we regularly test the plan and the program, there can be no assurance that the plan and program can withstand an actual or serious disruption in our business, including a data protection breach or cyber-attack. While we have established infrastructure and geographic redundancy for our critical systems, our ability to utilize these redundant systems requires further testing and we cannot be assured that such systems are fully functional. For example, much of our order fulfillment process is automated and the order information is stored on our servers. A significant business interruption could result in losses or damages and harm our business. If our computer systems and servers become unavailable at the end of a fiscal quarter, our ability to recognize revenue may be delayed until we are able to utilize back-up systems and continue to process and ship our orders. This could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We devote considerable internal and external resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and customer data, but these security measures cannot provide absolute security. In addition, many jurisdictions strictly regulate data privacy and protection and may impose significant penalties for failure to comply with these requirements. For example, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR"), which became effective in May 2018, has required us to expend significant time and resources to prepare for compliance. Also, in June 2018, the State of California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, that will go into effect beginning January 1, 2020, which will also likely require us to expend significant time and resources to prepare for compliance. Potential breaches of our security measures and the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our employees or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of employee error or other employee actions, hacking, fraud, social engineering or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, subject us to significant governmental fines, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Likewise, we expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards relating to privacy and data protection in the United States, the EU and other jurisdictions, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, which has been characterized as the first GDPR-like privacy statute to be enacted in the United States because it mirrors a number of the key provisions in the GDPR. We cannot presently determine the impact such laws, regulations and standards will have on our business. In any event, it is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law involving applicable healthcare or privacy laws, including the GDPR, in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations. 19 Table of Contents We are exposed to adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations in jurisdictions where we transact in local currency, which could harm our financial results and cash flows. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Although a portion of our international sales are currently invoiced in United States dollars, we have implemented and continue to implement for certain countries and customers both invoicing and payment in foreign currencies. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan and Australia as well as our global operations, and non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses and certain assets and liabilities. In addition, weaknesses in foreign currencies for U.S. dollar denominated sales could adversely affect demand for our products. Conversely, a strengthening in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar could increase foreign currency denominated costs. As a result we may attempt to renegotiate pricing of existing contracts or request payment to be made in U.S. dollars. We cannot be sure that our customers would agree to renegotiate along these lines. This could result in customers eventually terminating contracts with us or in our decision to terminate certain contracts, which would adversely affect our sales. We hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a response to the risk of changes in the value of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. We may enter into foreign currency forward contracts or other instruments, the majority of which mature within approximately five months. Our foreign currency forward contracts reduce, but do not eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. For example, we do not execute forward contracts in all currencies in which we conduct business. In addition, we hedge to reduce the impact of volatile exchange rates on net revenue, gross profit and operating profit for limited periods of time. However, the use of these hedging activities may only offset a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. If we fail to overcome the challenges associated with managing our broadband service provider sales channel, our net revenue and gross profit will be negatively impacted. We sell a significant number of products through broadband service providers worldwide. However, the service provider sales channel is challenging and exceptionally competitive. Difficulties and challenges in selling to service providers include a longer sales cycle, more stringent product testing and validation requirements, a higher level of customization demands, requirements that suppliers take on a larger share of the risk with respect to contractual business terms, competition from established suppliers, pricing pressure resulting in lower gross margins, and irregular and unpredictable ordering habits. For example, rigorous service provider certification processes may delay our sale of new products, or our products ultimately may fail these tests. In either event, we may lose some or all of the amounts we expended in trying to obtain business from the service provider, as well as lose the business opportunity altogether. In addition, even if we have a product which a service provider customer may wish to purchase, we may choose not to supply products to the potential service provider customer if the contract requirements, such as service level requirements, penalties, and liability provisions, are too onerous. Accordingly, our business may be harmed and our revenues may be reduced. We have, in exceptional limited circumstances, while still in contract negotiations, shipped products in advance of and subject to agreement on a definitive contract. We do not record revenue from these shipments until a definitive contract exists. There is risk that we do not ultimately close and sign a definitive contract. If this occurs, the timing of revenue recognition is uncertain and our business would be harmed. In addition, we often commence building custom-made products prior to execution of a contract in order to meet the customer's contemplated launch dates and requirements. Service provider products are generally custom-made for a specific customer and may not be salable to other customers or in other channels. If we have pre-built custom-made products but do not come to agreement on a definitive contract, we may be forced to scrap the custom-made products or re-work them at substantial cost and our business would be harmed. Further, successful engagements with service provider customers requires a constant analysis of technology trends. If we are unable to anticipate technology trends and service provider customer product needs, and to allocate research and development resources to the right projects, we may not be successful in continuing to sell products to service provider customers. In addition, because our service provider customers command significant resources, including for software support, and demand extremely competitive pricing, certain ODMs have declined to develop service provider products on an ODM basis. Accordingly, as our ODMs increasingly limit development of our service provider products, our service provider business will be harmed if we cannot replace this capability with alternative ODMs or in-house development. Orders from service providers generally tend to be large but sporadic, which causes our revenues from them to fluctuate and challenges our ability to accurately forecast demand from them. In particular, managing inventory and production of our products for our service provider customers is a challenge. Many of our service provider customers have irregular purchasing requirements. These customers may decide to cancel orders for customized products specific to that customer, and we may not be able to reconfigure and sell those products in other channels. These cancellations could lead to substantial write-offs. In 20 Table of Contents addition, these customers may issue unforecasted orders for products which we may not be able to produce in a timely manner and as such, we may not be able to accept and deliver on such unforecasted orders. In certain cases, we may commit to fixed-price, long term purchase orders, with such orders priced in foreign currencies which could lose value over time in the event of adverse changes in foreign exchange rates. Even if we are selected as a supplier, typically a service provider will also designate a second source supplier, which over time will reduce the aggregate orders that we receive from that service provider. Further, as the technology underlying our products deployed by broadband service providers matures and more competitors offer alternative products with similar technology, we anticipate competing in an extremely price sensitive market and our margins may be affected. If we are unable to introduce new products with sufficiently advanced technology to attract service provider interest in a timely manner, our service provider customers may then require us to lower our prices, or they may choose to purchase products from our competitors. If this occurs, our business would be harmed and our revenues would be reduced. If we were to lose a service provider customer for any reason, we may experience a material and immediate reduction in forecasted revenue that may cause us to be below our net revenue and operating margin expectations for a particular period of time and therefore adversely affect our stock price. For example, many of our competitors in the service provider space aggressively price their products in order to gain market share. We may not be able to match the lower prices offered by our competitors, and we may choose to forgo lower-margin business opportunities. Many of the service provider customers will seek to purchase from the lowest cost provider, notwithstanding that our products may be higher quality or that our products were previously validated for use on their proprietary network. Accordingly, we may lose customers who have lower, more aggressive pricing, and our revenues may be reduced. In addition, service providers may choose to prioritize the implementation of other technologies or the roll out of other services than home networking. Weakness in orders from this industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have seen slowdowns in capital expenditures by certain of our service provider customers in the past, and believe there may be potential for similar slowdowns in the future. Any slowdown in the general economy, over supply, consolidation among service providers, regulatory developments and constraint on capital expenditures could result in reduced demand from service providers and therefore adversely affect our sales to them. If we do not successfully overcome these challenges, we will not be able to profitably manage our service provider sales channel and our financial results will be harmed. The average selling prices of our products typically decrease rapidly over the sales cycle of the product, which may negatively affect our net revenue and gross margins. Our products typically experience price erosion, a fairly rapid reduction in the average unit selling prices over their respective sales cycles. In order to sell products that have a falling average unit selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. To manage manufacturing costs, we must collaborate with our third-party manufacturers to engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. In addition, we must carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products. We must also successfully manage our freight and inventory costs to reduce overall product costs. We also need to continually introduce new products with higher sales prices and gross margins in order to maintain our overall gross margins. If we are unable to manage the cost of older products or successfully introduce new products with higher gross margins, our net revenue and overall gross margin would likely decline. We depend substantially on our sales channels, and our failure to maintain and expand our sales channels would result in lower sales and reduced net revenue. To maintain and grow our market share, net revenue and brand, we must maintain and expand our sales channels. Our sales channels consist of traditional retailers, online retailers, DMRs, VARs, and broadband service providers. Some of these entities purchase our products through our wholesale distributor customers. We generally have no minimum purchase commitments or long-term contracts with any of these third parties. Traditional retailers have limited shelf space and promotional budgets, and competition is intense for these resources. If the networking sector does not experience sufficient growth, retailers may choose to allocate more shelf space to other consumer product sectors. A competitor with more extensive product lines and stronger brand identity may have greater bargaining power with these retailers. Any reduction in available shelf space or increased competition for such shelf space would require us to increase our marketing expenditures simply to maintain current levels of retail shelf space, which would harm our operating margin. Our traditional retail customers have faced increased and significant competition from online retailers. If we cannot effectively manage our business amongst our online customers and traditional retail customers, our business would be harmed. The recent trend in the consolidation of online retailers and DMR channels has resulted in intensified competition for preferred product placement, such as product placement on an online retailer's Internet home page. Expanding our presence in the VAR channel may be difficult and expensive. We compete with established companies that have longer operating histories and longstanding relationships with VARs that we would find highly desirable as sales channel partners. In addition, our efforts to 21 Table of Contents realign or consolidate our sales channels may cause temporary disruptions in our product sales and revenue, and these changes may not result in the expected longer-term benefits. We also sell products to broadband service providers. Competition for selling to broadband service providers is fierce and intense. Penetrating service provider accounts typically involves a long sales cycle and the challenge of displacing incumbent suppliers with established relationships and field-deployed products. If we are unable to maintain and expand our sales channels, our growth would be limited and our business would be harmed. We must also continuously monitor and evaluate emerging sales channels. If we fail to establish a presence in an important developing sales channel, our business could be harmed. If we lose the services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick C.S. Lo, or our other key personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. Our future success depends in large part upon the continued services of our key technical, engineering, sales, marketing, finance and senior management personnel. In particular, the services of Patrick C.S. Lo, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who has led our company since its inception, are very important to our business. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Our business model requires extremely skilled and experienced senior management who are able to withstand the rigorous requirements and expectations of our business. Our success depends on senior management being able to execute at a very high level. The loss of any of our senior management or other key engineering, research, development, sales or marketing personnel, particularly if lost to competitors, could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing needs of our business. While we have adopted an emergency succession plan for the short term, we have not formally adopted a long-term succession plan. As a result, if we suffer the loss of services of any key executive, our long-term business results may be harmed. While we believe that we have mitigated some of the business execution and business continuity risk with our organization into two business segments with separate leadership teams, the loss of any key personnel would still be disruptive and harm our business, especially given that our business is leanly staffed and relies on the expertise and high performance of our key personnel. In addition, because we do not have a formal long-term succession plan, we may not be able to have the proper personnel in place to effectively execute our long term business strategy if Mr. Lo or other key personnel retire, resign or are otherwise terminated. Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our future profitability. Factors that could materially affect our future effective tax rates include but are not limited to: changes in tax laws or the regulatory environment; changes in accounting and tax standards or practices; changes in the composition of operating income by tax jurisdiction; and our operating results before taxes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future. Future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws. Foreign jurisdictions have increased the volume of tax audits of multinational corporations. Further, many countries, have either changed or are considering changes to their tax laws. These changes are largely punitive to U.S. multinational corporations. Changes in tax laws could affect the distribution of our earnings, result in double taxation and adversely affect our results. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act) was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. In particular, sweeping changes were made to the U.S. taxation of foreign operations. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a quasi-territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings. Additionally, new provisions were added to mitigate the potential erosion of the U.S. tax base and to discourage use of low tax jurisdictions to own intellectual property and other valuable intangible assets. The Company completed its analysis of the impact of U.S. Tax reform and has finalized all estimates previously considered provisional under Staff Accounting Bulletin 118 in the fourth quarter of 2018, for details, refer to Note 9, Income Taxes, in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The changes in tax law under the Tax Act are complex and regulations governing the implementation continue to be issued. While the Company believes it has correctly accounted for the impact of the Tax Act, guidance continues to be issued and may differ from our interpretation based on existing facts and 22 Table of Contents circumstances. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to the legislation and potential tax consequences of investing in our stock. In addition to the impact of the Tax Act on our federal taxes, the Tax Act may impact our taxation in other jurisdictions, including with respect to state income taxes. Additionally, other foreign governing bodies may enact changes in their tax laws in reaction to the Tax Act that could result in changes in our global tax position and materially affect our financial position. We have been audited by the Italian Tax Authority (ITA) for the 2004 through 2012 tax years. The ITA examination included an audit of income, gross receipts and value-added taxes. Currently, we are in litigation with the ITA for the 2004 through 2012 years. If we are unsuccessful in defending our tax positions, our profitability will be reduced. The United Kingdom HMRC (Her Majestys Revenue and Customs) began an inquiry regarding the application of UK Diverted Profits Tax (DPT), a law which took effect as of April 1, 2015. In assessing the whether they believe the Company is subject to the DPT legislation, UK HMRC has expanded its review to include overall transfer pricing for 2014 through 2016. If we are unsuccessful in defending our positions, our profitability will be reduced. We received notice from the French Tax Administration on December 21, 2017 of their intent to audit our 2015 and 2016 tax filings for corporate income tax and value-added taxes. We have received a proposal of rectification on August 2018. We have not yet agreed to the final outcome of the audit. We are also subject to examination by other tax authorities, including state revenue agencies and other foreign governments. While we regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from examinations by the IRS and other tax authorities to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that the actual outcome resulting from these examinations will not materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Additionally, the IRS and several foreign tax authorities have increasingly focused attention on intercompany transfer pricing with respect to sales of products and services and the use of intangibles. Tax authorities could disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters and assess additional taxes. If we do not prevail in any such disagreements, our profitability may be affected. Our separation from Arlo and the distribution of Arlo shares to our stockholders may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our business. On February 6, 2018, we announced that our Board of Directors had unanimously approved the pursuit of a separation of our smart camera business Arlo from NETGEAR (the Separation), to be effected by way of initial public offering (IPO) and spin-off. On August 7, 2018, Arlo Technologies, Inc. (Arlo) completed its IPO and generated proceeds of approximately $170.2 million, net of offering costs. Upon completion of the IPO, we held 62,500,000 shares of Arlo common stock, representing approximately 84.2% of the outstanding shares of Arlo common stock. On December 31, 2018, we completed the distribution of these 62,500,000 shares to our stockholders (the Distribution), and we no longer own any shares of Arlo common stock after the Distribution. There is a risk that we may not be able to achieve the full strategic, operational and financial benefits to us and Arlo that were anticipated to result from the Separation or that such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. In fact, the Distribution may adversely affect our business. Following the Distribution, we are a smaller company with a less diversified product portfolio and a narrower business focus. As a result, we may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although NETGEAR and Arlo are now two independent companies, our long joint history may cause consumers and investors to continue to associate the companies with each other, either positively or negatively. Separating the businesses may also eliminate or reduce synergies or economies of scale that existed prior to the Distribution, which could harm our business. We could incur significant liability if the Distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the Distribution qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Arlo and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the Distribution were determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, in general, we would 23 Table of Contents recognize taxable gain as if we had sold Arlo common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who received shares of Arlo common stock in the Distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the Distribution. We entered into a separation agreement and various other agreements with Arlo to govern the Distribution and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and Arlo. The indemnity rights we have against Arlo under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us, for example if our losses exceeded our indemnity rights or if Arlo did not have the financial resources to meet its indemnity obligations. In addition, our indemnity obligations to Arlo may be significant, and these risks could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our sales and operations in international markets expose us to operational, financial and regulatory risks. International sales comprise a significant amount of our overall net revenue. International sales were approximately 35% of overall net revenue in fiscal 2018 and approximately 38% of overall net revenue in fiscal 2017. We continue to be committed to growing our international sales, and while we have committed resources to expanding our international operations and sales channels, these efforts may not be successful. International operations are subject to a number of other risks, including: exchange rate fluctuations; political and economic instability, international terrorism and anti-American sentiment, particularly in emerging markets; potential for violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations, such as those related to bribery and fraud; preference for locally branded products, and laws and business practices favoring local competition; changes in local tax and customs duty laws or changes in the enforcement, application or interpretation of such laws (including potential responses to the higher tariffs on certain imported products recently announced by the current U.S. administration); potential consequences of, and uncertainty related to, the "Brexit" process in the United Kingdom, which could lead to additional expense and complexity in doing business there; increased difficulty in managing inventory; delayed revenue recognition; less effective protection of intellectual property; stringent consumer protection and product compliance regulations, including but not limited to the Restriction of Hazardous Substances directive, the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive and the European Ecodesign directive, or EuP, that are costly to comply with and may vary from country to country; difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; and business difficulties, including potential bankruptcy or liquidation, of any of our worldwide third party logistics providers. While we believe we generally have good relations with our employees, employees in certain jurisdictions have rights which give them certain collective rights. If management must expend significant resources and effort to address and comply with these rights, our business may be harmed. We are also required to comply with local environmental legislation and our customers rely on this compliance in order to sell our products. If our customers do not agree with our interpretations and requirements of new legislation, they may cease to order our products and our revenue would be harmed. 24 Table of Contents We must comply with indirect tax laws in multiple jurisdictions, as well as complex customs duty regimes worldwide. Audits of our compliance with these rules may result in additional liabilities for taxes, duties, interest and penalties related to our international operations which would reduce our profitability. Our operations are routinely subject to audit by tax authorities in various countries. Many countries have indirect tax systems where the sale and purchase of goods and services are subject to tax based on the transaction value. These taxes are commonly referred to as value-added tax (VAT) or goods and services tax (GST). In addition, the distribution of our products subjects us to numerous complex customs regulations, which frequently change over time. Failure to comply with these systems and regulations can result in the assessment of additional taxes, duties, interest and penalties. While we believe we are in compliance with local laws, we cannot assure that tax and customs authorities would agree with our reporting positions and upon audit may assess us additional taxes, duties, interest and penalties. Additionally, some of our products are subject to U.S. export controls, including the Export Administration Regulations and economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. We also incorporate encryption technology into certain of our solutions. These encryption solutions and underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations or exceptions, including by license, a license exception, appropriate classification notification requirement and encryption authorization. Furthermore, our activities are subject to U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations that prohibit the shipment of certain products and services without the required export authorizations, including to countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. embargoes or sanctions. Additionally, the current U.S. administration has been critical of existing trade agreements and may impose more stringent export and import controls. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time consuming, and may result in delay or loss of sales opportunities even if the export license ultimately is granted. While we take precautions to prevent our solutions from being exported in violation of these laws, including using authorizations or exceptions for our encryption products and implementing IP address blocking and screenings against U.S. government and international lists of restricted and prohibited persons and countries, we have not been able to guarantee, and cannot guarantee that the precautions we take will prevent all violations of export control and sanctions laws, including if purchasers of our products bring our products and services into sanctioned countries without our knowledge. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control laws can result in significant fines or penalties and incarceration could be imposed on employees and managers for criminal violations of these laws. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products and services or our end-users ability to utilize our solutions in their countries. Changes in our products and services or changes in import and export regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets. Furthermore, actions by the current U.S. administration increasing duties on certain products imported from China may severely impact the price of our goods imported into the United States. It is uncertain how long these tariffs will apply. Further, other countries may follow suit and increase duties on goods produced in China. Adverse action by any government agencies related to indirect tax laws could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If our products contain defects or errors, we could incur significant unexpected expenses, experience product returns and lost sales, experience product recalls, suffer damage to our brand and reputation, and be subject to product liability or other claims. Our products are complex and may contain defects, errors or failures, particularly when first introduced or when new versions are released. The industry standards upon which many of our products are based are also complex, experience change over time and may be interpreted in different manners. Some errors and defects may be discovered only after a product has been installed and used by the end-user. In addition, epidemic failure clauses are found in certain of our customer contracts, especially contracts with service providers. If invoked, these clauses may entitle the customer to return for replacement or obtain credits for products and inventory, as well as assess liquidated damage penalties and terminate an existing contract and cancel future or then current purchase orders. In such instances, we may also be obligated to cover significant costs incurred by the customer associated with the consequences of such epidemic failure, including freight and transportation required for product replacement and out-of-pocket costs for truck rolls to end user sites to collect the defective products. Costs or payments we make in connection with an epidemic failure may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our products contain defects or errors, or are found to be noncompliant with industry standards, we could experience decreased sales and increased product returns, loss of customers 25 Table of Contents and market share, and increased service, warranty and insurance costs. In addition, defects in, or misuse of, certain of our products could cause safety concerns, including the risk of property damage or personal injury. If any of these events occurred, our reputation and brand could be damaged, and we could face product liability or other claims regarding our products, resulting in unexpected expenses and adversely impacting our operating results. For instance, if a third party were able to successfully overcome the security measures in our products, such a person or entity could misappropriate customer data, third party data stored by our customers and other information, including intellectual property. In addition, the operations of our end-user customers may be interrupted. If that happens, affected end-users or others may file actions against us alleging product liability, tort, or breach of warranty claims. We have been and will be investing increased additional in-house resources on software research and development, which could disrupt our ongoing business and present distinct risks from our historically hardware-centric business. We plan to continue to evolve our historically hardware-centric business model towards a model that includes more sophisticated software offerings. As such, we will further evolve the focus of our organization towards the delivery of more integrated hardware and software solutions for our customers. While we have invested in software development in the past, we will be expending additional resources in this area in the future. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return on capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in our due diligence. Software development is inherently risky for a company such as ours with a historically hardware-centric business model, and accordingly, our efforts in software development may not be successful. Any increased investment in software research and development may materially adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may spend a proportionately greater amount on software research and development in the future. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our software solutions, pricing and other factors are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our revenue and prospects. Software research and development is complex. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain appropriate intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products and services. We must accurately forecast mixes of software solutions and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new software solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. In addition, our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues and defects. We may be unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix to address defects. Finding solutions to quality issues or defects can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our profits. If new or existing customers have difficulty with our software solutions or are dissatisfied with our services, our operating margins could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could adversely affect our operating results. We are currently involved in numerous litigation matters in the ordinary course and may in the future become involved in additional litigation, including litigation regarding intellectual property rights, consumer class actions and securities class actions, any of which could be costly and subject us to significant liability. The networking industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding infringement of patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. In particular, leading companies in the data communications markets, some of which are our competitors, have extensive patent portfolios with respect to networking technology. From time to time, third parties, including these leading companies, have asserted and may continue to assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights against us demanding license or royalty payments or seeking payment for damages, injunctive relief and other available legal remedies through litigation. These also include third-party non-practicing entities who claim to own patents or other intellectual property that cover industry standards that our products comply with. If we are unable to resolve these matters or obtain licenses on acceptable or commercially reasonable terms, we could be sued or we may be forced to initiate litigation to protect our rights. The cost of any necessary licenses could significantly harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also choose to join defensive patent aggregation services in order to prevent or settle litigation against such non-practicing entities and avoid the associated significant costs and uncertainties of litigation. These patent aggregation services may obtain, or have previously obtained, licenses for the alleged patent infringement claims against us and other patent assets that could be used offensively against us. The costs of such defensive patent aggregation services, while potentially lower than the costs of litigation, may be significant as well. At any time, any of these non-practicing 26 Table of Contents entities, or any other third-party could initiate litigation against us, or we may be forced to initiate litigation against them, which could divert management attention, be costly to defend or prosecute, prevent us from using or selling the challenged technology, require us to design around the challenged technology and cause the price of our stock to decline. In addition, third parties, some of whom are potential competitors, have initiated and may continue to initiate litigation against our manufacturers, suppliers, members of our sales channels or our service provider customers or even end user customers, alleging infringement of their proprietary rights with respect to existing or future products. In the event successful claims of infringement are brought by third parties, and we are unable to obtain licenses or independently develop alternative technology on a timely basis, we may be subject to indemnification obligations, be unable to offer competitive products, or be subject to increased expenses. Consumer class-action lawsuits related to the marketing and performance of our home networking products have been asserted and may in the future be asserted against us. Finally, along with Arlo Technologies and individuals and underwriters involved in Arlo's initial public offering, we have been sued in securities class action lawsuits, and may in the future be named in other similar lawsuits. For additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see the information set forth in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we do not resolve these claims on a favorable basis, our business, operating results and financial condition could be significantly harmed. As part of growing our business, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions. If we fail to successfully select, execute or integrate our acquisitions, then our business and operating results could be harmed and our stock price could decline. From time to time, we will undertake acquisitions to add new product lines and technologies, gain new sales channels or enter into new sales territories. For example, in August 2018, we acquired Meural Inc., a leader in digital platforms for visual art, to enhance our Connected Home product and service offerings. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including but not limited to the following: integrating the companies, assets, systems, products, sales channels and personnel that we acquire; higher than anticipated acquisition and integration costs and expenses; reliance on third parties to provide transition services for a period of time after closing to ensure an orderly transition of the business; growing or maintaining revenues to justify the purchase price and the increased expenses associated with acquisitions; entering into territories or markets with which we have limited or no prior experience; establishing or maintaining business relationships with customers, vendors and suppliers who may be new to us; overcoming the employee, customer, vendor and supplier turnover that may occur as a result of the acquisition; disruption of, and demands on, our ongoing business as a result of integration activities including diversion of management's time and attention from running the day to day operations of our business; inability to implement uniform standards, disclosure