Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Upon an event of default, for example, the administrative agent with the consent of, or at the request of, the holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the loans and commitments may terminate the commitments and accelerate the maturity of the loans and enforce certain other remedies under the Amended Credit Agreement and the other loan documents, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we take on additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could damage our business. Our ability to meet our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to remain profitable or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness at such time could adversely affect our operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for additional capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. In addition, if we are unable to make payments as required under the Amended Credit Agreement, we would be in default under the terms of the loans, which could seriously harm our business. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements. Following the Comms Transaction, an increasing portion of our revenue is derived from international operations. Our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given that cash is typically received over an extended period of time for many of our license agreements and given that a material and increasing portion of our revenue is generated outside of the United States, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates (including the Euro) against the U.S. dollar could result in substantial changes in reported revenues and operating results due to the foreign exchange impact upon translation of these transactions into U.S. dollars. In the normal course of business, we employ various hedging strategies to partially mitigate these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. These strategies may not be effective in fully protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign exchange rates. Fluctuations of the foreign exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Additionally, sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar increases the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services we purchase overseas. Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, we may invoice customers in a currency other than the functional currency of our business, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects. The Company also faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate or the taxes we owe could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; changes in the research and development tax credit laws, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates; changes in accounting and tax treatment of share-based compensation; the valuation of generated and acquired deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance on these assets; 14 Table of Contents transfer pricing adjustments; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and tax assessments or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we may receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An adverse change in our effective tax rate could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. We may fail to secure necessary additional financing. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continued growth and operations and any downgrades in our credit rating could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and may affect the terms of any such financing. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our operating requirements, we may need to seek to raise capital by one or more of the following: issuing additional common stock or other equity instruments; acquiring additional bank debt; issuing debt securities; or obtaining lease financings. However, we may not be able to obtain additional capital when we want or need it, or capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. Furthermore, any additional capital may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as new financial or operating covenants, or that may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, our failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our estimates and judgments related to critical accounting policies could be inaccurate. We consider accounting policies related to marketable securities, revenue recognition, valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets and share-based compensation to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our financial results. Management makes accounting judgments and estimates related to these policies. These estimates and judgments affect, among other things, the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges that could adversely impact our business. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods and could negatively affect our stock price. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors associated with our industry, many of which may be outside of our control, including the following: the rate of growth of, and changes in technology trends in, our market and other industries in which we currently operate or may operate in the future; technology spending by current and potential customers; reduced demand for our products; 15 Table of Contents uneven demand for service delivery and network and application performance management solutions and network security solutions; the timing and size of orders from customers, especially in light of our lengthy sales cycle; the timing and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; the timing of hiring sales personnel and the speed at which such personnel become fully productive; our ability to develop and manufacture new products and technologies in a timely manner; the competitive position of our products; the continued acceptance of our products by our customers and in the industries that we serve; changes in the number and size of our competitors, including the effects of new entrants and the effects of well-resourced competitors increasing their investment in our markets, and changes in the prices and capabilities of competitors' products; customer ability to implement our products; cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; attrition of key employees and competition with other companies for employees with specific talents and experience; the number, severity, and timing of cyber-related threat outbreaks (e.g., malware, attacks, worms and viruses); the quality and level of our execution of our business strategy and operating plan, and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing programs; changes in accounting rules; costs related to acquisitions; and our ability to manage expenses. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Such a stock price decline could also occur even if we meet or exceed our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, benefits and rent, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is significantly below our expectations, we may not be able to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter, and, therefore, this revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative impact on our operating results for that quarter. It may be necessary in the future to undertake cost reduction initiatives to improve profitability, which could lead to a deterioration of our competitive position. Any difficulties that we encounter as we reduce our costs could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Our disclosure