Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Upon an event of default, for example, the administrative agent, with the consent of, or at the request of, the holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the loans and commitments may terminate the commitments and accelerate the maturity of the loans and enforce certain other remedies under the Amended Credit Agreement and other loan documents, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we take on additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. Interest on the outstanding balances under the Amended Credit Agreement is calculated based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). On July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), which regulates LIBOR, announced that it will no longer require banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. That announcement indicates that the continuation of LIBOR on the current basis cannot and will not be guaranteed after 2021. The Amended Credit Agreement provides for the administrative agent under the agreement to determine if (i) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBOR rate or (ii) the FCA or governmental authority having jurisdiction over the administrative agent has made a public statement identifying a specific date after which the LIBOR rate shall no longer be used for determining interest rates for loans, and the administrative agent determines that both of these factors are unlikely to be temporary, then we and the administrative agent would agree to transition to an alternate base rate borrowing or amend the credit agreement to establish an alternate interest rate to LIBOR that includes consideration of the then-prevailing market convention for determining interest rates for syndicated loans in the United States at that time. We are not able to predict whether LIBOR will actually cease to be available after 2021 or whether there will be another market benchmark in its place. Our Amended Credit Agreement defines an alternative rate to LIBOR which we have the option to select, the Alternate Base Rate which is equal to the greatest of (1) JPMorgan's prime rate, or (2) 0.50% in excess of the New York Federal Reserve Bank (NYFRB) rate. Any uncertainty regarding the continued use and reliability of LIBOR as a benchmark interest rate could adversely affect the performance of LIBOR relative to its historic values. If the methods of calculating LIBOR change from current methods for any reason, or if LIBOR ceases to perform as it has historically, or if we select an alternative benchmark rate our interest expense associated with our outstanding indebtedness or any future indebtedness we incur may increase. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could damage our business. Our ability to meet our obligations under the Amended Credit Agreement will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to remain profitable, or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness at such time could adversely affect our operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain financing for additional capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. In addition, if we are unable to make payments as required under the Amended Credit Agreement, we would be in default under the terms of the loans, which could seriously harm our business. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. We may fail to secure necessary additional financing. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continued growth and operations and any downgrades in our credit rating could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or may affect the terms of any such financing. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our operating requirements, we may need to seek to raise capital by one or more of the following: issuing additional common stock or other equity instruments; acquiring additional bank debt; issuing debt securities; or obtaining lease financings. However, we may not be able to obtain additional capital when we want or need it, or capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. Furthermore, any additional capital may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as new financial or operating covenants, or that may result in dilution to our stockholders. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, our failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt 15 Table of Contents becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate or the taxes we owe could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; changes in the research and development tax credit laws; earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates; the valuation of generated and acquired deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance on these assets; transfer pricing adjustments; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and tax assessments or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we may receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An adverse change in our effective tax rate could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. We may be impacted by changes in taxation, trade and other regulatory requirements. We are subject to income tax in local, national and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sal es or value-added taxes (VAT) in many ju risdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. Additionally, changes in or the improper application of import and excise duties and or sales taxes or VAT may negatively impact our operating results. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. There is increased uncertainty with respect to tax policy and trade relations between the U.S. and other countries. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our estimates and judgments related to critical accounting policies could be inaccurate. We consider accounting policies related to revenue recognition, marketable securities, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and other acquisition and divestiture accounting items, and share-based compensation to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our financial results. Management makes judgments and creates estimates when applying these policies. These estimates and judgments affect, among other things, the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges or impair assets that could adversely impact our business. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods. 16 Table of Contents Our disclosure