Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Upon an 22 Table of Contents event of default, for example, the administrative agent, with the consent of, or at the request of, the holders of more than 50% in principal amount of the loans and commitments, may terminate the commitments and accelerate the maturity of the loans outstanding under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and enforce certain other remedies under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and other loan documents, which would adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. If we take on additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. Any failure to meet our debt obligations could damage our business. Our ability to meet our obligations under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to remain profitable, or if we use more cash than we generate in the future, our level of indebtedness at such time could adversely affect our operations by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain financing for additional capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. In addition, if we are unable to make payments as required under the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, we would be in default under the terms of the loans, which could seriously harm our business. If we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. We may fail to secure necessary additional financing. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continued growth and operations and any downgrades in our credit rating could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future or may affect the terms of any such financing. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our operating requirements, we may need to seek to raise capital by one or more of the following: issuing additional common stock or other equity instruments; acquiring additional bank debt; issuing debt securities; or obtaining lease financings. However, we may not be able to obtain additional capital when we want or need it, or capital may not be available on satisfactory terms, including in light of current macroeconomic conditions, such as heightened inflation and increasing interest rates, stock price volatility, bank failures and the risk of a potential recession. Furthermore, any additional capital may have terms that adversely affect our business, such as new financial or operating covenants, or that may result in dilution to our stockholders. We expect that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash provided from operations and our bank credit facilities will be sufficient to meet ongoing cash requirements. However, our failure to generate sufficient cash as our debt becomes due or to renew credit lines prior to their expiration could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Other Risks Related to Our Business The failure to recruit and retain qualified personnel and plan for and manage the succession of key executives could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. We operate in businesses where there is intense competition for experienced personnel in all our global markets. We depend on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, develop and retain qualified and effective professionals and to attract and retain talent needed to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly executives, sales and marketing personnel, software engineers, and technical support personnel. The complexity of our products, software systems and services require highly trained professionals. While we presently have a sophisticated, dedicated and experienced team of employees who have a deep understanding of our business lines, the labor market for these individuals has historically been very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding. If we are unable to attract and retain the highly skilled technical personnel that are integral to our sales, marketing, product development and technical support teams, the rate at which we can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements may be limited. This inability could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, we must maintain the size of our sales force to support our direct sales and indirect sales channels. Because our products are very technical, salespeople require a comparatively long period of time to become productive, typically three to twelve months. This lag in productivity, as well as the challenge of attracting qualified candidates, may make it difficult to 23 Table of Contents maintain our sales force. If we are unable to maintain our sales capability, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Anil Singhal, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and co-founder, and our other key executive officers and senior managers to work effectively as a team. Effective succession planning is also important for our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfers of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We must, therefore, plan for and manage the succession of key executives due to retirement, illness, or competitive offers. Our business is subject to evolving ESG laws, regulations and expectations that could expose us to numerous risks, including risks to our reputation, business, financial performance and growth. We and our suppliers are subject to, and may become subject to, evolving laws and regulations pertaining to ESG matters. In addition, regulators, customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on ESG matters and related disclosures. These changing rules, regulations and stakeholder expectations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and increased management time and attention spent complying with or meeting such regulations and expectations. We also communicate certain ESG initiatives and goals in our public disclosures. Statements about our ESG initiatives and goals, and progress against those goals, may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. If our ESG-related data, processes and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, or if we fail to achieve progress with respect to our ESG goals on a timely basis, or at all, our reputation, business, financial performance and growth could be adversely affected. We may not successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions we do make, which could impair our ability to compete and could harm our operating results. We may choose to acquire complementary businesses, products, or technologies to remain competitive or expand our business. We investigate and evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, products, and technologies in the ordinary course of business. We may compete for acquisition opportunities with entities having significantly greater resources than we have. As a result, we may not succeed in acquiring some or all businesses, products, or technologies that we seek to acquire. Our inability to effectively consummate acquisitions on favorable terms could significantly impact our ability to compete effectively in our targeted markets and could negatively affect our results of operations. Acquisitions that we do complete could adversely impact our business. The potential adverse consequences from acquisitions include: the potentially dilutive issuance of common stock or other equity instruments; the incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets; the potential litigation or other liabilities or claims or regulatory actions in connection with an acquisition; the incurrence of significant costs and expenses to complete the acquisition and integrate the acquired business; and the potentially negative impact of poor performance of an acquisition on our earnings per share. Acquisition transactions also involve numerous business risks. These risks from acquisitions include: difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, technologies, personnel and products; difficulties in assimilating diverse financial reporting and management information systems as well as differing ordering processes and customer relationship management systems; use of cash to pay for acquisitions that may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and repayment of outstanding indebtedness; substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization or impairment of intangible assets and share-based compensation expense; the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors or suppliers; and the inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. If we are not able to successfully manage these issues, the anticipated benefits and efficiencies of the acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, and our ability to compete, our revenue and gross margins and our results of operations may be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents We face significant competition from other technology companies. The service assurance, application performance management, network security, cybersecurity and business intelligence markets are highly competitive, rapidly evolving, and fragmented markets that have overlapping technologies and competitors, both large and small, and we expect competition on solutions offerings and pricing to increase. We believe customers make service management system, network security, cybersecurity and business intelligence purchasing decisions based primarily upon the following factors: product and service performance, functionality and price; timeliness of new product and service introductions; network capacity; ease of installation, integration, and use; customer service and technical support; name and reputation of vendor; quality and value of the product and services; and alliances with industry partners. We compete with a large and growing number of providers of service assurance, application performance management solutions, network security offerings and network traffic analyzers and probes, as well as with providers of business intelligence services. In addition, leading network equipment, network security and service assurance and application technology vendors offer their own management solutions, including products which they license from other competitors. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, management, marketing, service, support, technical, distribution and other resources than we do. In addition, some of our customers develop their own in-house solutions to meet their technological needs. Further, in recent years some of our competitors have been acquired by larger companies that are seeking to enter or expand in the markets in which we operate. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in an evolving industry. Therefore, given their larger size and greater resources, our competitors may be able to respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. As a result of the competitive factors highlighted in this section and in other risk factors, including the introduction of disruptive technologies, we may not be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. This competition could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, and failure to increase, or the loss of market share, any of which would likely have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Uncertainties of regulation of the Internet and data traveling over the Internet or over the use of AI and evolving technologies could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We could be materially adversely affected by increased regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate, as well as access to or commerce conducted on the Internet. Further, governments may change or increase regulation or restriction of sales, licensing, distribution, and exporting or importing of certain technologies to certain countries. The adoption of additional regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products, and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations related to evolving technologies, such as Artificial Intelligence, could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governments. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than those in the United States. These laws and regulations may also impact our innovation and business drivers in developing or using new and emerging technologies, including those related to AI and machine learning. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, lost profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions or other consequences. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of managements attention and resources. Enforcement actions and sanctions could have a material and adverse impact on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents We are subject to stringent and evolving U.S. state, local, and foreign laws, regulations and rules, contractual obligations, policies, and other obligations related to data privacy and security. Our actual, or perceived failure to comply with such obligations (or such failure by the third parties with whom we work) could lead to regulatory investigations or actions; litigation; fines and penalties; disruptions of our business, results of operations; reputational harm; loss of revenue or profits; and other adverse business consequences. Our data processing activities subject us to numerous data privacy and security obligations, such as various laws, regulations, external and internal privacy and security policies, contractual requirements, and other obligations relating to data privacy and security. The regulatory framework for data privacy and security issues worldwide has and will continue to evolve, and as a result, legal requirements and enforcement practices are likely to continue to impact business requirements regarding the collection, use, storage, protection, retention, or transfer of data. In many jurisdictions, enforcement activities and consequences for noncompliance are rising. In the United States, federal, state, and local governments have enacted and are continuing to enact numerous data privacy and security laws, including data breach notification laws, personal information privacy laws, consumer protection laws, and other similar laws. Furthermore, under various privacy laws and other obligations, we may be required to obtain certain consents to process personal information. Our inability or failure to do so could result in adverse consequences. Outside the United States, a number of laws and regulations also govern data privacy and security. These and other obligations may be subject to differing applications and interpretations, which may be inconsistent or conflict among jurisdictions. For example, the EU GDPR and the United Kingdom's GDPR ("UK GDPR") impose strict requirements for processing personal information. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires us to devote considerable resources and may necessitate changes to our services, information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal information on our behalf. In addition, we may be unable to transfer personal information from Europe and other jurisdictions to the United States or other countries due to data localization requirements or limitations on cross-border data transfers. In particular, the European Economic Area ("EEA") and the United Kingdom ("UK") have significantly restricted the transfer of personal information to the United States and other countries. Other jurisdictions may adopt similarly stringent interpretations of their data localization and cross-border data transfer laws. Although there are currently various legal mechanisms available to transfer personal information from Europe to other countries, including the United States, such as the EEA's standard contractual clauses, the UK's International Data Transfer Agreement/Addendum and the EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework and the UK extension thereto (which allows for transfers to relevant U.S.-based organizations who self-certify compliance and participate in the Framework), these mechanisms are subject to legal challenges, and there is no assurance that we can satisfy or rely on these measures to lawfully transfer personal information to the United States. If there is no lawful manner for us to transfer personal information from Europe or other jurisdictions to the United States, or if the requirements for a legally-compliant transfer are too onerous, we could face significant adverse consequences, including the interruption or degradation of our operations, the need to relocate part of or all of our data processing activities to other jurisdictions at significant expense, increased exposure to regulatory actions, fines and penalties, the inability to transfer data and work with resellers, vendors and other third parties, and injunctions against our processing or transferring of personal information necessary to operate our business. Additionally, companies that transfer personal information out of the EEA and UK to other jurisdictions, particularly to the United States, are subject to increased scrutiny from regulators and other interested parties. In addition to data privacy and security laws, we are also bound by contractual obligations related to data privacy and security, and our efforts to comply with such obligations may not be successful. We publish policies, marketing materials and other statements regarding our data privacy and security compliance activities. If these policies, materials or statements are found to be inaccurate or incomplete we may be subject to investigation, enforcement actions by regulators, or other adverse consequences. We may at times fail, or be perceived to have failed, in our efforts to comply with our data privacy and security obligations. Moreover, despite our efforts, our personnel or third parties with whom we work may fail to comply with such obligations, which could negatively impact our business operations. If we or the third parties with whom we work fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with applicable data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant consequences, including but not limited to: government enforcement actions; litigation; additional reporting requirements and/or oversight; bans on processing personal information; and orders to destroy or not use personal information. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition, including but not limited to, loss of customers, inability to process personal information or to operate in certain jurisdictions, limited ability to develop or 26 Table of Contents commercialize our products, expenditure of time and resources to defend any claim or inquiry, adverse publicity, or substantial changes to our business model or operations. If we violate the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or applicable anti-bribery laws in other countries, or if we fail to comply with U.S. export controls and government contracting laws, our business could be harmed. A material portion of our revenue is derived from international sales. We must comply with foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials and others, as well as anti-competition regulations. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from making corrupt payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment and requires companies to maintain appropriate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately reflect the transactions of the company. Under the FCPA, U.S. companies may be held liable for actions taken by agents or local partners or representatives. In addition, regulators may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies which we acquire. We are also subject to the U.K. Bribery Act and may be subject to anti-corruption laws of other countries in which we do business. In addition to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, we are also subject to the export and re-export control laws of the U.S., including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC), as well as to U.S. and state and local government contracting laws, complex procurement rules and regulations, and may be subject to government contracting laws of other countries in which we do business. If we or our distributors, resellers, agents, or other intermediaries fail to comply with the FCPA, the EAR, OFAC or U.S. or state and local government contracting laws, or the anti-corruption, export or governmental contracting laws of other countries, governmental authorities in the U.S. or other countries could seek to impose civil and/or criminal penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial conditions and cash flows. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct including suspension or debarment from future government business, and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries. Such violations could also adversely affect our reputation with existing and prospective customers, which could negatively impact our operating results and growth prospects. General Risk Factors Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. We generally release guidance regarding our future performance on our quarterly earnings conference calls, quarterly earnings releases, and otherwise. Such guidance, which includes forward-looking statements, reflects our managements estimates as of the date of release and is based on projections prepared by our management. We may also decide not to release, or to defer, issuing guidance, where such guidance might not be appropriate or when we do not have sufficient visibility or clarity to issue such guidance. In those situations, we expect to communicate our reasons for not releasing or deferring release of guidance. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We are not responsible for any projections or reports published by any such analysts or investors. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely solely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement or execute our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this "Risk Factors" section in this report could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. 27 Table of Contents Our effective tax rate may fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate or the taxes we owe could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; changes in the research and development tax credit laws; earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates; the valuation of generated and acquired deferred tax assets and the related valuation allowance on these assets; transfer pricing adjustments; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and tax assessments or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we may receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations. An adverse change in our effective tax rate could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. We may be impacted by changes in taxation, trade, tariffs, and other regulatory requirements. We are subject to income tax in local, national, and international jurisdictions. In addition, our products are subject to import and excise duties and/or sales or value-added taxes (VAT) in many jurisdictions. We are also subject to the examination of our tax returns and other tax matters by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. Additionally, changes in or the improper application of import and excise duties and or sales taxes or VAT may negatively impact our operating results. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these examinations. Fluctuations in tax rates and duties, changes in tax legislation or regulation or adverse outcomes of these examinations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. There is increased uncertainty with respect to tax policy and trade relations between the U.S. and other countries. Major developments in tax policy or trade relations, such as the imposition of unilateral tariffs or international sanctions on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements. A material portion of our revenue is derived from international operations. Our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. Most of the revenue and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in local currencies. Given that cash is typically received over an extended period of time for many of our license and support agreements and given that a material portion of our revenue is generated outside of the United States, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates (including the Euro) against the U.S. dollar could result in substantial changes in reported revenues and operating results due to the foreign exchange impact upon translation of these transactions into U.S. dollars. In the normal course of business, we employ various hedging strategies to partially mitigate these risks, including the use of derivative instruments. These strategies may not be effective in fully protecting us against the effects of fluctuations from movements in foreign exchange rates, including the increased volatility in foreign exchange rates relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, the wars in Ukraine and Middle East, and future global pandemics and other events. Fluctuations of the foreign exchange rates could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. Additionally, sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements. Increased strength of the U.S. dollar increases the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely 28 Table of Contents affect sales. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products, and services we purchase overseas. Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, we may invoice customers in a currency other than the functional currency of our business, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable translation effects. We also face exchange rate risk from our investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. Our estimates and judgments related to critical accounting policies could be inaccurate. We consider accounting policies related to revenue recognition, and valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and other acquisition accounting items to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our financial results. Management makes judgments and creates estimates when applying these policies. These estimates and judgments affect, among other things, the reported amounts of our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, the amounts of charges accrued by us, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances and at the time they are made. If our estimates or the assumptions underlying them are not correct, actual results may differ materially from our estimates and we may need to, among other things, accrue additional charges or impair assets that could adversely impact our business. As a result, our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods. Our disclosure