Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Despite our indebtedness level, we may still be able to incur substantial additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt agreements contain various incurrence covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These incurrence covenants will limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt or make other restricted payments; make certain investments and acquisitions; create certain liens; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to us; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; 16 Table of Content s alter our existing businesses; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the covenants in our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements and permit our lenders to cease making loans to us under our credit facility (as defined below) or to accelerate the maturity date of the indebtedness incurred thereunder. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our secured debt agreements, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure our borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could also cause cross defaults under our other debt agreements. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to refinance our debt obligations as they mature. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. We regularly review our capital structure, various financing alternatives and conditions in the debt and equity markets in order to opportunistically enhance our capital structure. In connection therewith, we may seek to refinance or retire existing indebtedness, incur new or additional indebtedness or issue equity or equity-linked securities, in each case, depending on market and other conditions. As our debt obligations mature or if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of our existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation. Approximately 39% of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, which may result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. In 2021, the U.S. dollar weakened against foreign currencies which favorably affected our revenue by $2.2 million. In contrast, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar may unfavorably affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations and may decline. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: macro or micro-economic factors; our operating and financial performance and prospects; quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; loss of any member of our senior management team; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; sales of our common stock by stockholders; general market conditions; domestic and international economic, legal, and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; loss of a major customer; and 17 Table of Content s the declaration and payment of a dividend. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, due to the market capitalization of our stock, our stock tends to be more volatile than large capitalization stocks that comprise the Dow Jones Industrial Average or Standard and Poors 500 Index. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable and may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, a classified board of directors and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to five million preferred shares without a stockholder vote. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call a special meeting. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Generally, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. We anticipate that the provisions of Section 203 may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions may constitute an important part of our future growth strategy. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and may continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We regularly evaluate acquisition transactions, sign non-disclosure agreements, and participate in processes with respect to acquisitions, some of which may be material to us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. In addition, we may borrow funds or issue equity to acquire other businesses, increasing our interest expense and debt levels or diluting our existing stockholders ownership interest in us. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to complete acquisitions without prior approval of our lenders. We have had difficulty with purchase accounting and other aspects related to the accounting for our acquisitions, which resulted in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have remediated these material weaknesses, there can be no assurances we will not face similar issues with respect to any future acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We either may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or it may take longer to realize such benefits. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient, and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired businesses into our existing businesses. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude the realization of the full anticipated benefits. The difficulties of combining the operations of acquired companies include, among others: the diversion of managements attention to integration matters; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including, without limitation, the complexities associated with managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company, addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks, and other assets of each of the acquired companies; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the acquired businesses with our own; the inability to implement effective internal controls, procedures, and policies for acquired businesses as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 within the time periods prescribed thereby; 18 Table of Content s the exposure to potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with acquired businesses; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, ongoing operations or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy, which could materially impact our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, we incurred a significant amount of debt in connection with our acquisitions in the past few years. Finally, in relation to such acquisitions, we have significantly higher amounts of intangible assets. These intangible assets will be subject to impairment testing, and we could incur a significant impact to our financial statements in the form of an impairment if assumptions and expectations related to our acquisitions are not realized. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements from past acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited in amount and duration and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. Our participation in joint ventures could expose us to additional risks from time to time. We currently have a 49% investment in a Chinese joint venture and may participate in additional joint ventures from time to time. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms, and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. Any divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business and retained liabilities from businesses that we may sell could adversely affect our financial results. As part of our portfolio management process, we review our operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with our strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs, disputes with buyers, or potential impairment charges. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had previously anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are also subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, lease payments, product liability claims, or environmental matters. Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect future financial results. General Risk Factors Damage to our reputation could harm our business, including our competitive position and business prospects. Our ability to attract and retain customers, suppliers, investors, and employees is impacted by our reputation. Harm to our reputation can arise from various sources, including employee misconduct, security breaches, unethical behavior, litigation, or 19 Table of Content s regulatory outcomes. The consequences of damage to our reputation include, among other things, increasing the number of litigation claims and the size of damages asserted or subjecting us to enforcement actions, fines, and penalties, all of which would cause us to incur significant defense related costs and expenses. Changes in U.S. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations, and financial condition. The U.S. tax laws and regulations, as well as the administrative interpretations of those laws and regulations, are constantly under review and may be changed at any time, possibly with retroactive effect. No assurance can be given as to whether, when, or in what form changes to the U.S. tax laws applicable to us may be enacted. Changes in U.S. tax laws, tax rulings, or interpretations of existing laws could materially affect our business, cash flow, results of operations, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2021, we owned or leased 31 facilities in a total of six countries, which includes a 49% equity interest in a manufacturing joint venture in China. Utilization of these sites may vary with product mix and economic, seasonal, and other business conditions. Our plants generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and expected near-term growth. These plants are generally well maintained, in good operating condition, and suitable and adequate for their use. The following table lists the locations of our facilities by segment. Mobile Solutions Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Boituva, Brazil Plant Brazil Leased Campinas, Brazil Office Brazil Leased Dowagiac, Michigan Plant U.S.A. Owned Juarez, Mexico Plant Mexico Leased Kamienna Gora, Poland Plant Poland Owned Kentwood, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 3, Warehouse U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Office U.S.A. Owned Marnaz, France Plant France Owned Marshall, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Marshall, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista, Brazil Plant 1 Brazil Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista, Brazil Plant 2 Brazil Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Wuxi, China Plant China Leased 20 Table of Content s Power Solutions Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Algonquin, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 3 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Office, Warehouse U.S.A. Owned Foshan City, China Plant China Leased Irvine, California Plant U.S.A. Leased Lubbock, Texas Plant U.S.A. Owned Mexico City, Mexico Plant Mexico Owned North Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Owned Palmer, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Taunton, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Joint Venture Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Wuxi, China Plant China Leased In addition to these manufacturing plants, we lease office space in Charlotte, North Carolina, which serves as our corporate headquarters. Item 3. Legal Proceedings As disclosed in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report, we are engaged in certain legal proceedings, and the disclosure set forth in Note 13 relating to certain commitments and contingencies is incorporated herein by reference. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 21 Table of Content s PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq under the trading symbol NNBR. As of March 4, 2022, there were approximately 6,000 beneficial owners of record of our common stock, and the closing per share stock price as reported by Nasdaq was $2.42. The following graph and table compare the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total shareholder return of: (i) the Russell 2000 Index, which is a broad equity market index, and (ii) the S&P SmallCap 600 Industrials Index, which is a published industry index, for the period from December 31, 2016, to December 31, 2021. Previously, we compared the return on our common stock with the S&P SmallCap 600 and a customized peer group, which consisted of the following companies: Altra Industrial Motion Corp., Ametek Inc., CIRCOR International, Inc., Colfax Corporation, Crane, Enerpac Tool Group Corp, Kaman Corporation, Park-Ohio Holdings Corp. and Worthington Industries, Inc. (collectively, the 2020 Peer Group). During 2021, we determined that the Russell 2000 Index and the S&P SmallCap 600 Industrials Index are more applicable comparisons for our common stock due to our market capitalization and customer end markets following the sale of the Life Sciences business in 2020. Due to the change in selected comparative indices, we are presenting the comparative index and industry peer group that was used in the prior year. The following graph and table assume that a $100 investment was made at the close of trading on December 31, 2016. We cannot assure you that the performance of our common stock will continue in the future with the same or similar trend depicted on the graph. Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return (Performance results through December 31, 2021) 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 NN, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 146.51 $ 36.31 $ 51.31 $ 36.45 $ 22.74 Russell 2000 $ 100.00 $ 114.65 $ 102.03 $ 129.10 $ 155.20 $ 177.73 S&P SmallCap 600 Industrials $ 100.00 $ 117.21 $ 102.97 $ 133.49 $ 149.47 $ 188.18 S&P SmallCap 600 $ 100.00 $ 113.21 $ 103.59 $ 127.24 $ 141.61 $ 179.60 2020 Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 126.26 $ 103.48 $ 147.62 $ 169.44 $ 197.34 Source: Value Line Publishing LLC 22 Table of Content s The declaration and payment of dividends are subject to the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, credit agreement restrictions, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. See Part III, Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this Annual Report for information required by Item 201 (d) of Regulation S-K. Item 6. Reserved Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and the Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Historical operating results and percentage relationships among any amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. Unless otherwise noted herein, all amounts are in thousands, except per share numbers. A detailed discussion of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 are not included herein and can be found in Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on March 15, 2021. Overview and Management Focus Our strategy and management focus are based upon the following long-term objectives Organic growth within our segments; Improved operating margins; Cost reduction; Efficient capital deployment; Debt leverage ratio improvement; Capital management initiatives; and Employee health, safety, and satisfaction; Management generally focuses on these trends and relevant market indicators Trends related to the geographic migration of competitive manufacturing, electric vehicles, and electrification; Costs subject to the global inflationary environment, including, but not limited to: Raw materials; Wages and benefits, including health care costs; Regulatory compliance; and Energy; Global automotive production rates; Defense spending; Global industrial growth and economics; Residential and non-residential construction rates; Regulatory environment for United States public companies and manufacturing companies; Currency and exchange rate movements and trends; Interest rate levels and expectations; and Changes in tariff regulations. 23 Table of Content s Management generally focuses on the following key indicators of operating performance Sales growth; Cost of sales; Gross margin; Selling, general and administrative expense; Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; Return on invested capital; Income from operations; Net income; Leverage ratio Cash flow from operations and capital spending; Certain non-GAAP measures as defined in our quarterly earnings releases and investor presentations; Customer service reliability; External and internal quality indicators; and Employee development. Critical Accounting Estimates Our significant accounting policies, including the assumptions and judgment underlying them, are disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As disclosed in Note 1, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ significantly from those estimates. We believe that the following discussion addresses our most critical accounting estimates, which are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require managements most difficult, subjective, and complex judgments. Goodwill Goodwill was tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and between annual tests if a triggering event occurred. The impairment analysis was performed at the reporting unit level. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, there was no remaining goodwill balance due to impairments recognized during the year ended December 31, 2020. An impairment charge was calculated based on a reporting units carrying amount in excess of its fair value (i.e., step 1 of the two-step impairment test). If the carrying value of the reporting unit including goodwill was less than the fair value of the reporting unit, the goodwill was not considered impaired. Reporting units for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing were the same as our operating segments (Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions). Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Provision has been made for income taxes on unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries as these earnings are not deemed to be permanently reinvested. We recognize income tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold and accrue interest and potential penalties related to unrecognized income tax positions which are recorded as a component of the provision (benefit) for income taxes. We eliminate disproportionate tax effects from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) when the circumstances upon which they are premised cease to exist. The calculation of tax assets, liabilities, and expenses under U.S. GAAP is largely dependent on management judgment of the current and future deductibility and utilization of taxable expenses and benefits using a more likely than not threshold. Specifically, the realization of deferred tax assets and the certainty of tax positions taken are largely dependent upon 24 Table of Content s management weighting the current positive and negative evidence for recording tax benefits and expenses. A significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated is cumulative losses incurred over the three-year period ended December 31, 2021. Such objective evidence limits the ability to consider other subjective evidence, such as our projections for future earnings growth. We have recorded a U.S. deferred tax liability for foreign earnings which are not indefinitely reinvested. We treat global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) as a periodic charge in the year in which it arises and therefore do not record deferred taxes for basis differences associated with GILTI. In the event that the actual outcome from future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions or management plans and positions are amended, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and financial position. (See Note 1 and Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived tangible and intangible assets subject to depreciation or amortization are tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. A test for recoverability is also performed when management has committed to a plan to dispose of a reporting unit or asset group. Assets to be held and used are tested for recoverability when indications of impairment are evident. Recoverability of a long-lived tangible or intangible asset is evaluated by comparing its carrying value to the future estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. If the asset is deemed not recoverable, then the asset is considered impaired and adjusted to fair value which is then depreciated or amortized over its remaining useful life. Assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lesser of carrying value or fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing potential impairment for long-lived assets, we consider forecasted financial performance based, in large part, on management business plans and projected financial information which are subject to a high degree of management judgment and complexity. Future adverse changes in market conditions or adverse operating results of the underlying assets could result in having to record additional impairment charges not previously recognized. Fair Value Measurements Fair value is an exit price representing the expected amount that an entity would receive to sell an asset or pay to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction with market participants at the measurement date. Fair value principles prioritize valuation inputs across three broad levels. An asset or liabilitys classification within the various levels is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Results of Operations Factors That May Influence Results of Operations The following paragraphs describe factors that have influenced results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021, that management believes are important to provide an understanding of the business and results of operations or that may influence operations in the future. Global COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic continues to disrupt the United States and global economy, and we cannot predict when a full economic recovery will occur. New and more easily transmitted variants of COVID-19, such as the Delta and Omicron variants, have emerged and spread in the United States and across the globe. The impact of these variants cannot be predicted at this time and could depend on numerous factors, including vaccination rates among the population, the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines against the new variants, and the response by governmental bodies and regulators. Further surges in COVID-19 infection rates could result in the reinstatement of directives and mandates requiring businesses to again curtail or cease normal operations. The spread of COVID-19 and the responses thereto have created a disruption in the manufacturing, delivery, and overall supply chain of automobile manufacturers and suppliers, as well as disruption within the power industry. Global vehicle production decreased significantly in 2020, but production ramped back up in 2021. However, production continues to be impacted by disruptions of global supply chains, which have caused challenges in obtaining raw materials we use in the manufacture of some of our products. We increased our inventories in the current year to mitigate the risk of supply chain disruption for our customers. In addition, power shortages in China have resulted in widespread blackouts, often without any or little notice. These blackouts caused us and other manufacturers in the region to shut down production until power was restored. Supply chain and COVID-19 related disruptions are expected to continue into 2022. Inflation triggered by the unprecedented economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has increased our manufacturing cost, particularly labor and materials, and is expected to continue into future periods. A worldwide semiconductor chip shortage is affecting automotive original equipment manufacturers, causing unpredictable volumes. The rapid development and fluidity of 25 Table of Content s the situation precludes any prediction as to the ultimate impact COVID-19 will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, which will depend largely on future developments directly or indirectly relating to the duration and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic. While managing decreased demand in many regions across the globe, we are now operating at all of our business locations. We have implemented training and recruiting programs to address labor shortages. We are focused on the health and safety of our employees, customers, and suppliers. We have developed and implemented processes to ensure a safe environment for our employees and any visitors to our facilities, including providing personal protective equipment and establishing social distancing protocols. These processes include recommendations based on guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization. The health and safety of our employees remains our top priority. While we are actively promoting vaccination among our employees, vaccination status may affect workforce availability ranging from absences for vaccinations, booster shots, and recovery from side-effects. Significant workforce availability challenges could have a material effect on our business operations, financial results, liquidity, and financial position. We have undertaken a number of permanent and temporary actions to manage the evolving situation. We continue to streamline facilities and implement cost savings initiatives. Capital expenditures and travel costs remain at relatively low levels. We refinanced our credit facility and preferred stock in the first quarter of 2021 as discussed below. Credit Facilities On March 22, 2021, we entered into a new $150.0 million term loan facility (the Term Loan Facility) and a new $50.0 million asset backed credit facility (the ABL Facility). The proceeds from the Term Loan Facility were used to prepay the amounts outstanding on our previous term loans. The previous credit facility was terminated and consisted of a Senior Secured Term Loan, Incremental Term Loan, and Senior Secured Revolver. No amounts were outstanding on the Senior Secured Revolver at the time of termination. Outstanding borrowings under the Term Loan Facility bear interest at either 1) one-month LIBOR (subject to a 1.000% floor) plus an applicable margin of 6.875% or 2) the greater of various benchmark rates plus an applicable margin of 5.875%. At December 31, 2021, the Term Loan Facility bore interest, based on one-month LIBOR, at 7.875%. The Term Loan Facility requires quarterly principal payments of $0.4 million with the remaining unpaid principal amount due on the final maturity date of September 22, 2026. The Term Loan Facility is collateralized by all of our assets. The Term Loan Facility has a first lien on all assets other than accounts receivable and inventory and has a second lien on accounts receivable and inventory. We were in compliance with all requirements under the Term Loan Facility as of December 31, 2021. On July 22, 2021, we entered into a new fixed-rate interest rate swap agreement to change the LIBOR-based component of the interest rate on $60.0 million of our variable rate debt to a fixed rate of 1.291%. The interest rate swap, which has been designated as a cash flow hedge, has a notional amount of $60.0 million and a maturity date of July 31, 2024. The ABL Facility provides for a senior secured revolving credit facility in the amount of $50.0 million, of which $30.0 million is available in the form of letters of credit and $5.0 million is available for the issuance of short-term swingline loans. The availability of credit under the ABL Facility is limited by a borrowing base calculation derived from accounts receivable and inventory held in the United States. Outstanding borrowings under the ABL Facility bear interest on a variable rate structure plus an interest rate spread that is based on the average amount of aggregate revolving commitment available. The variable borrowing rate is either 1) LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 1.75% or 2.00%, depending on availability, or 2) the greater of the federal funds rate or prime, plus an applicable margin of 0.75% or 1.00%, depending on availability. We may elect whether to use one-month, three-month, or six-month LIBOR, subject to a 0.50% floor. Interest payments are due monthly on borrowings that utilize one-month LIBOR and quarterly on borrowings that utilize three-month or six-month LIBOR. At December 31, 2021, using one-month LIBOR plus a 1.75% spread, the weighted average interest rate on outstanding borrowings under the ABL Facility would have been 2.25% if there had been any balance outstanding. We pay a commitment fee of 0.375% for unused capacity under the ABL Facility and a 1.875% fee on the amount of letters of credit outstanding. The final maturity date of the ABL Facility is March 22, 2026. As of December 31, 2021, we had no outstanding borrowings under the ABL Facility, $11.2 million of outstanding letters of credit, and $36.0 million available for future borrowings under the ABL Facility. The ABL Facility has a first lien on accounts receivable and inventory. We were in compliance with all requirements under the ABL Facility as of December 31, 2021. Preferred Stock On March 22, 2021, we completed a private placement of 65 thousand shares of newly designated Series D Perpetual Preferred Stock, with a par value of $0.01 per share (the Series D Preferred Stock), at a price of $1,000 per share, together with detachable warrants (the 2021 Warrants) to purchase up to 1.9 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $0.01 per share. The Series D Preferred Stock has an initial liquidation preference of $1,000 per share and is redeemable at our 26 Table of Content s option in cash at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference then in effect. Series D Preferred Stock shares earn cash dividends at a rate of 10.0% per year, payable quarterly in arrears, accruing whether or not earned or declared. If no cash dividend is paid, then the liquidation preference per share effective on the dividend date increases by 12.0% per year. On March 22, 2026, the cash dividend rate and in-kind dividend rate increase by 2.5% per year. Cash dividends are required beginning on September 30, 2027. Net cash proceeds of $61.8 million from the issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock, along with part of the proceeds from the Term Loan Facility, were used to redeem all of the outstanding shares of the Companys Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (the Series B Preferred Stock). The total redemption cash payment was $118.4 million. Sales Concentration We recognized sales from a single customer of $49.7 million, or 10% of consolidated net sales, during the year ended December 31, 2019. Revenues from this customer are in our Mobile Solutions segment and were less than 10% of consolidated net sales during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Financial Data as a Percentage of Net Sales The following table presents the percentage of our net sales represented by statement of operations line item. Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 81.7 % 80.4 % 80.2 % Selling, general, and administrative expense 10.8 % 13.6 % 14.1 % Depreciation and amortization 9.7 % 10.7 % 9.2 % Goodwill impairment % 21.7 % % Other operating expense (income), net (0.2) % 1.1 % 0.2 % Loss from operations (1.9) % (27.5) % (3.6) % Interest expense 2.7 % 4.4 % 2.7 % Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of debt issuance costs 0.5 % % 0.1 % Derivative payments on interest rate swap 0.4 % 1.0 % % Loss on interest rate swap 0.4 % 2.7 % % Other expense (income), net (1.1) % % 0.2 % Loss from continuing operations before benefit (provision) for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (4.7) % (35.6) % (6.6) % Benefit (provision) for income taxes 0.4 % 2.1 % (0.1) % Share of net income from joint venture 1.3 % 0.8 % 0.3 % Loss from continuing operations (3.0) % (32.6) % (6.3) % Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 0.3 % 9.1 % (3.3) % Net loss (2.8) % (23.5) % (9.5) % 27 Table of Content s Year Ended December 31, 2021, compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change Net sales $ 477,584 $ 427,534 $ 50,050 Organic growth $ 47,862 Foreign exchange effects 2,188 Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 389,995 343,594 46,401 Selling, general, and administrative expense 51,489 58,055 (6,566) Depreciation and amortization 46,195 45,680 515 Goodwill impairment 92,942 (92,942) Other operating expense (income), net (1,091) 4,720 (5,811) Loss from operations (9,004) (117,457) 108,453 Interest expense 12,664 18,898 (6,234) Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of debt issuance costs 2,390 144 2,246 Derivative payments on interest rate swap 1,717 4,133 (2,416) Loss on interest rate swap 2,033 11,669 (9,636) Other income, net (5,366) (213) (5,153) Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (22,442) (152,088) 129,646 Benefit for income taxes 1,756 8,972 (7,216) Share of net income from joint venture 6,261 3,626 2,635 Loss from continuing operations (14,425) (139,490) 125,065 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 1,200 38,898 (37,698) Net loss $ (13,225) $ (100,592) $ 87,367 Net Sales . Net sales increased by $50.1 million, or 12%, during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher demand within all markets that were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year and favorable foreign exchange effects of $2.2 million. In addition, sales were positively impacted by increased selling prices for precious metals allowed under customer contracts due to the sharp rise in underlying commodities costs compared with the year ended December 31, 2020. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales increased by $46.4 million, or 14%, during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to variable costs associated with the above-noted sales increase. In addition, cost of sales increased due to the reintroduction of employee-related costs suspended in the prior year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as travel, benefits and overtime hours. Finally, cost of sales increased due to variable cost inefficiencies associated with global supply chain interruptions, uneven customer ordering patterns (particularly in the automotive market), and inflation. These increases were partially offset by more favorable overhead absorption compared to prior year due to the increase in inventory. Selling, General, and Administrative Expense. Selling, general, and administrative expense decreased by $6.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to cost reduction initiatives that drove decreases in personnel costs, professional fees, and office occupancy costs. Goodwill Impairment. We recognized goodwill impairment of $92.9 million at Power Solutions in 2020, resulting in no remaining goodwill balance. Other Operating Expense (Income), Net. Other operating expense (income), net, changed favorably by $5.8 million primarily due to charges and costs associated with asset disposals and elimination of a portion of our lease obligation as a result of our decision to vacate a portion of our corporate headquarters building in 2020. These charges were partially offset by a gain on the sale of a building in Fairfield, Ohio, in the second quarter of 2020. 28 Table of Content s Interest Expense. Interest expense decreased by $6.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to settlements on the interest rate swap that was terminated in connection with our debt refinancing in 2021. This decrease was partially offset by higher interest rates on debt in the current year. Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Interest on debt $ 10,800 $ 7,714 Interest rate swap settlements 77 8,906 Amortization of debt issuance costs and discount 1,381 1,702 Capitalized interest (300) (204) Other 706 780 Total interest expense $ 12,664 $ 18,898 Loss on Extinguishment of Debt and Write-off of Debt Issuance Costs. We recognized $2.4 million for the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs that were associated with the credit facility that was terminated in March 2021. Derivative Payments on Interest Rate Swap. Derivative payments on interest rate swap represent cash settlements of the interest rate swap after hedge accounting was discontinued in October 2020. Prior to October 2020, interest rate swap settlements were recognized in interest expense. The previous interest rate swap was terminated in the first quarter of 2021. We entered into a new interest rate swap in the third quarter of 2021, which is designated as a cash flow hedge with the impact of settlements recognized in interest expense. Loss on Interest Rate Swap . Loss on interest rate swap represents mark-to-market adjustments on the interest rate swap after hedge accounting was discontinued in October 2020 as well as amortization of the residual loss in accumulated other comprehensive income as monthly settlements occur. Prior to October 2020, mark-to-market adjustments on the interest rate swap were recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. Upon termination of the previous interest rate swap in March 2021, we recognized in earnings the remaining $3.3 million loss that had been deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income. Other Income, Net. Other income, net, changed favorably by $5.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, due to noncash derivative mark-to-market gains and more favorable foreign exchange effects associated with intercompany borrowings, partially offset by a litigation settlement reached during the second quarter of 2021. Benefit for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate was 7.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to 5.9% for the year ended December 31, 2020. The difference in rates is primarily due to the limitation on the amount of tax benefit recorded for loss carryforwards in 2021 and the impact of the impairment of nondeductible goodwill in 2020. Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the effective income tax rate for each period presented. Share of Net Income from Joint Venture. Share of net income from the JV increased during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to recovery from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on prior year sales. The JV, in which we own a 49% investment, recognized net sales of $94.8 million and $68.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Additionally, profits improved from expanding variable margins as a result of successful process improvement initiatives, improved product mix, and fixed cost reduction actions. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax . The largest component of income from discontinued operations, net of tax, during the year ended December 31, 2020, was the $214.9 million gain on sale of our Life Sciences business. Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides details of the results of discontinued operations. We recognized a gain of $1.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, due to the favorable resolution of a tax indemnity. 29 Table of Content s Results by Segment MOBILE SOLUTIONS Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change Net sales $ 285,863 $ 256,360 $ 29,503 Organic growth $ 27,649 Foreign exchange effects 1,854 Income from operations $ 9,039 $ 5,228 $ 3,811 Net sales increased by $29.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher demand within all markets which were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year, new business in the general industrial market, and favorable foreign exchange effects. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we recognized a customer pricing settlement. Income from operations increased by $3.8 million compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to contribution generated from the above-noted sales increase and customer pricing settlement. Moreover, we built up inventory in the year ended December 31, 2021, which resulted in favorable overhead absorption during the current year compared to the prior year. These positive impacts were partially offset by the reintroduction of employee-related costs suspended in the prior year due to the COVID-19 pandemic (such as travel, benefits, and overtime hours), material and labor inflation, and variable cost inefficiencies associated with global supply chain interruptions and uneven customer ordering patterns, particularly in the automotive market. POWER SOLUTIONS Years Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change Net sales $ 191,800 $ 171,269 $ 20,531 Organic growth $ 20,197 Foreign exchange effects 334 Goodwill impairment $ $ (92,942) $ 92,942 Income (loss) from operations $ 6,493 $ (85,983) $ 92,476 Net sales increased by $20.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher demand within our end markets, all of which were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year. Sales were positively impacted by increased selling prices for precious metals allowed under customer contracts due to the sharp rise in underlying commodities costs compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. In addition, revenue increased during the fourth quarter of 2021 due to prices increases with certain customers. Income (loss) from operations increased by $92.5 million compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a goodwill impairment loss of $92.9 million recognized in the first quarter of 2020. In addition, income from operations increased due to the above-noted higher sales volume. These favorable impacts were partially offset by an adverse shift in sales mix; higher material costs as a result of inflation; operating inefficiencies in our aerospace, defense, and medical business; and the reintroduction of employee-related costs suspended in the prior year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, such as travel, benefits and overtime hours. Changes in Financial Condition from December 31, 2020, to December 31, 2021 Overview From December 31, 2020, to December 31, 2021, total assets decreased by $45.9 million primarily due to normal depreciation and amortization of fixed assets, lease right-of-use assets, and intangible assets. We used $15.4 million of cash to settle the ineffective interest rate swap as part of our refinancing during the first quarter of 2021. Accounts receivable decreased as a result of successful collection efforts, accelerated payment terms, and lower sales in the fourth quarter of 2021 compared with the fourth quarter of 2020. These decreases were partially offset by capital expenditures and increases in inventories during the year ended December 31, 2021. Inventories increased as a result of a strategic decision to mitigate potential supply chain issues for our customers. The investment in the Chinese joint venture also increased as a result of undistributed earnings of the joint venture. 30 Table of Content s From December 31, 2020, to December 31, 2021, total liabilities increased by $35.4 million, primarily due to the refinancing of our credit facilities, partially offset by the termination of the ineffective interest rate swap. Cash Flows Cash provided by operations was $15.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with cash provided by operations of $15.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Operating activities during 2021 included building inventory levels as a result of a strategic decision to mitigate potential supply chain issues for our customers. Net payments for income taxes were $5.4 million higher in the year ended December 31, 2021 when compared to 2020. The increased bonus payout to our employees during 2021 also impacted operating activities. Operating activities were positively impacted by the timing of disbursements on accounts payable compared to 2020, as well as increased income generated from operations during the year ended December 31, 2021. Cash used in investing activities was $36.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with cash provided by investing activities of $719.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The difference was primarily due to cash received from the sale of the Life Sciences business in 2020. Cash provided by financing activities was $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared with cash used by financing activities of $714.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The difference was primarily due to $11.6 million net inflow from the debt and preferred stock refinancing in the current year compared to the prepayment of debt in 2020 with proceeds from the sale of the Life Sciences business. Liquidity and Capital Resources Credit Facility The principal amount outstanding under our Term Loan Facility as of December 31, 2021, was $148.9 million, without regard to unamortized debt issuance costs and discount. As of December 31, 2021, we had $36.0 million available for future borrowings under the ABL Facility. This amount of borrowing capacity is net of $11.2 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2021, which are considered as usage of the ABL Facility. The Term Loan Facility requires quarterly principal payments of $0.4 million with the remaining unpaid principal amount due on the final maturity date of September 22, 2026. If one-month LIBOR is less than 1.000%, then we pay 7.875% per annum in interest. If one-month LIBOR exceeds 1.000%, then we pay the variable one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 6.875%. Based on the interest rate in effect at December 31, 2021, and the fixed rate on the 2021 interest rate swap, annual interest payments would be approximately $11.9 million. The ABL Facility bears interest on a variable rate structure with borrowings bearing interest at one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 1.75%. The interest rate in effect at December 31, 2021, was 2.25%. We pay a commitment fee of 0.375% for unused capacity under the ABL Facility. We were in compliance as of December 31, 2021, with all requirements under our Term Loan Facility and ABL Facility. Both credit facilities allow for optional expansion of available borrowings, subject to certain terms and conditions. On March 3, 2022, we amended our Term Loan Facility, which increases the quarterly maximum consolidated net leverage ratio beginning with the first quarter of 2022. Hedging On July 22, 2021, we entered into a fixed-rate interest rate swap agreement to change the LIBOR-based component of the interest rate on a portion of our variable rate debt to a fixed rate of 1.291% (the 2021 Swap). The 2021 Swap has a notional amount of $60.0 million and a maturity date of July 31, 2024. The objective of the 2021 Swap is to eliminate the variability of cash flows in interest payments on the first $60.0 million of variable rate debt attributable to changes in benchmark one-month LIBOR interest rates. Refer to Note 19 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion about the interest rate swap. Our arrangements with customers typically provide that payments are due within 30 to 60 days following the date of shipment. We invoice and receive payment from many of our customers in various other currencies. Additionally, we are party to various third party and intercompany loans, payables, and receivables denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of these sales, loans, payables, and receivables, we are exposed to foreign exchange transaction and translation risk. Various strategies to manage this risk are available to management, including producing and selling in local currencies and hedging programs. As of December 31, 2021, no currency derivatives were in place. In addition, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could impair our ability to compete with international competitors for foreign as well as domestic sales. 31 Table of Content s Functional Currencies We currently have foreign operations in Brazil, China, France, Mexico, and Poland. The local currency of each foreign facility is also its functional currency. Seasonality and Fluctuation in Quarterly Results General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months as customers slow production and sales to original equipment manufacturers are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not materially impacted by seasonality.