Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Results of Operations and Note 2 and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding our business segments is presented below. Within the Metal Bearing Components Segment, we manufacture and supply high precision bearing components, consisting of balls, cylindrical rollers, tapered rollers, and metal retainers, for leading bearing and CV-joint manufacturers on a global basis. We are a leading independent manufacturer of precision steel bearing balls and rollers for the North American, European and Asian markets. In 2014, Metal Bearing Components accounted for 57% of our sales. Sales of balls accounted for 38% of our sales and rollers accounted for approximately 16% of our sales. Sales of metal bearing retainers accounted for 3% of our sales. We offer one of the industrys most complete lines of commercially available bearing components. We emphasize engineered products that take advantage of our competencies in product design and tight tolerance manufacturing processes. Our customers use our components in fully assembled ball and roller bearings and CV-joints, which serve a wide variety of industrial applications in the automotive, electrical, agricultural, construction, machinery, heavy truck, rail, and mining markets. Within the Plastic and Rubber Components Segment, we manufacture high precision rubber seals and plastic retainers for leading bearing manufacturers on a global basis. In addition, we manufacture specialized plastic products including automotive components, electronic instrument cases and other molded components used in a variety of industrial and consumer applications. Finally, we also manufacture rubber seals for use in various automotive, industrial and mining applications. In 2014, plastic products accounted for 5% of our sales and rubber seals accounted for 2% of our sales. Our Autocam Precision Components Segment manufactures highly engineered, difficult to manufacture precision metal components and subassemblies for the transportation, HVAC and fluid power markets. Our entry into the precision metal components market began in 2006 with the acquisition of Whirlaway Corporation. We dramatically expanded the segment in 2014 with the acquisition of Autocam Corporation (Autocam). With the acquisition of Autocam we are now one of the premier global brands in the high quality, ultra precision end of the precision components market with a global presence in the business. These products accounted for 36% of our sales in 2014. Products Metal Bearing Components Segment Precision Steel Balls . At our Metal Bearing Components Segment facilities (with the exception of our Veenendaal Plant), we manufacture and sell high quality, precision steel balls. Our steel balls are used primarily by manufacturers of anti-friction bearings and constant velocity joints where precise spherical, tolerance and surface finish accuracies are required. 3 Table of Contents Steel Rollers . We manufacture tapered rollers at our Veenendaal, Erwin, and Konjic Plants and cylindrical rollers at our Erwin Plant. Rollers are an alternative rolling element used instead of balls in anti-friction bearings that typically have heavier loading or different speed requirements. Our roller products are used primarily for applications similar to those of our precision steel ball product line, plus certain non-bearing applications such as hydraulic pumps and motors. Tapered rollers are a component in tapered roller bearings that are used in a variety of applications including automotive gearbox applications, automotive wheel bearings and a wide variety of industrial applications. Most cylindrical rollers are made to specific customer requirements for diameter and length and are used in a variety of industrial applications. Metal Retainers. We manufacture and sell precision metal retainers for roller bearings used in a wide variety of industrial applications. Retainers are used to separate and space the rolling elements (rollers) within a fully assembled bearing. We manufacture metal retainers at our Veenendaal Plant. Plastic and Rubber Components Segment Bearing Seals . At our Danielson Plant, we manufacture and sell a wide range of precision bearing seals produced through a variety of compression and injection molding processes and adhesion technologies to create rubber-to-metal bonded bearing seals. The seals are used in applications for automotive, industrial, agricultural and mining markets. Plastic Retainers. At our Lubbock Plant, we manufacture and sell precision plastic retainers for ball and roller bearings used in a wide variety of industrial applications. Retainers are used to separate and space the rolling elements (balls or rollers) within a fully assembled bearing. Precision Plastic Components. At our Lubbock Plant, we also manufacture and sell a wide range of specialized plastic products including automotive under-the-hood components, electronic instrument cases and precision electronic connectors and lenses, as well as a variety of other specialized industrial and consumer parts. Autocam Precision Components Segment Autocam Precision Components . We sell a wide range of highly engineered, extremely close tolerance, precision-machined metal components and subassemblies primarily to the automotive and commercial vehicle, HVAC and fluid power markets. We have developed an expertise in manufacturing highly complex, system critical components for fuel systems, engines and transmissions, power steering systems and electromechanical motors. This expertise has been gained through investment in technical capabilities, processes and systems, and skilled program management and product launch capabilities. Research and Development With our new corporate strategy, we are in the process of enhancing our research and development efforts. We will initially focus on adjacent markets, manufacturing process enhancements and continuing to improve our product quality. In general, these research and development efforts will entail using dedicated internal experts and resources. The amounts spent on research and development activities by us during each of the last three fiscal years are not material and are expensed as incurred. Customers Our products are supplied primarily to bearing manufacturers and automotive and industrial parts manufacturers for use in a broad range of industrial applications, including transportation, electrical, agricultural, construction, alternative energy, machinery and mining. We supply approximately 500 customers; however, our top ten customers account for approximately 66% of our revenue. Sales to each of these top ten customers are made to multiple customer locations and divisions throughout the world. Only one of these customers, AB SKF (SKF), had sales levels that were over 10% of total net sales. Sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of SKF accounted for approximately 26% of net sales in 2014. In 2014, 49% of our products were sold to customers in North America, 34% to customers in Europe, 12% to customers in Asia and the remaining 5% to customers in South America. We sell our products to most of our largest customers under either sales contracts or agreed upon commercial terms. In general, we pass through material cost fluctuations when incurred to our customers in the form of changes in selling prices. We ordinarily ship our products directly to customers within 60 days, and in many cases, during the same calendar month, of the date on which a sales order is placed. Accordingly, we generally have an insignificant amount of open (backlog) orders from customers at month end. 4 Table of Contents See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for additional Segment financial information. The following table presents a breakdown of our net sales for fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012: (In Thousands) 2014 2013 2012 Metal Bearing Components Segment $ 278,026 $ 259,459 $ 252,241 Percentage of Total Sales 57 % 70 % 68 % Autocam Precision Components Segment 177,224 78,756 76,746 Percentage of Total Sales 36 % 21 % 21 % Plastic and Rubber Components Segment 33,351 34,991 41,097 Percentage of Total Sales 7 % 9 % 11 % Total $ 488,601 $ 373,206 $ 370,084 Percentage of Total Sales 100 % 100 % 100 % The change in value of Euro denominated sales when converted to U.S. Dollars resulted in net sales increasing $0.1 million in 2014 compared to 2013 and increasing $5.6 million in 2013 compared to 2012. Sales and Marketing A primary emphasis of our marketing strategy is to expand key customer relationships by offering high quality, high precision application specific customer solutions with the value of a single supply chain partner for a wide variety of products and components. Due to the technical nature of many of our products, our engineers and manufacturing management personnel also provide technical sales support functions, while internal sales employees handle customer orders and other general sales support activities. The Metal Bearing Components Segment, Autocam Precision Components Segment, and the Plastics and Rubber Components Segment, each use a distinct direct sales force supported by senior segment management and engineering involvement. Our Metal Bearing Components Segment marketing strategy focuses on our ability to provide consistent, high quality products that meet the most precise specifications of leading global brands. Our marketing strategy for the Plastic and Rubber Components Segment and the Autocam Precision Components Segment is to offer custom manufactured, high quality, precision products to markets with high value-added characteristics at competitive price levels. This strategy focuses on relationships with key customers that require the production of technically difficult parts and assemblies, enabling us to take advantage of our strengths in custom product development, equipment and tool design, component assembly and machining processes. Our arrangements with both our U.S. and European customers typically provide that payments are due within 30 to 60 days following the date of shipment of goods. With respect to export customers of both our U.S. and European businesses, payments generally are due within 60 to 120 days following the date of shipment in order to allow for additional freight time and customs clearance. For some customers that participate in our inventory management program, sales are recorded when the customer uses the product. See Business Customers and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Manufacturing Process We have become a leading independent bearing component manufacturer through exceptional service and high quality manufacturing processes. Because our ball and roller manufacturing processes incorporate the use of standardized tooling, sizes, and process technology, we are able to produce large volumes of products cost competitively, while maintaining high quality standards. 5 Table of Contents The key to our high quality production of seals and retainers is the incorporation of customized engineering into our manufacturing processes, metal to rubber bonding competencies and experience with a broad range of engineered resins and custom polymers. This design process includes the testing and quality assessment of each product. Within the precision metal components industry, we are well positioned in the market by virtue of our focus on highly engineered, difficult to manufacture critical components, product development and component subassemblies. Employees As of December 31, 2014, we employed a total of 3,775 full-time employees and 445 full time equivalent temporary workers. Of our total employment, 14% are management/staff employees and 86% are production employees. The employees at the Pinerolo, Veenendaal and Autocam France Plants are unionized. We believe we have a good working relationship with our employees. Competition The Metal Bearing Components Segment of our business is intensely competitive. Our primary domestic competitor is Hoover Precision Products, Inc., a wholly owned U.S. subsidiary of Tsubaki Nakashima Co., LTD. Our primary foreign competitors are Amatsuji Steel Ball Manufacturing Company, Ltd. (Japan), a wholly owned division of NSK LTD., Tsubaki Nakashima Co., LTD (Japan) and Jiangsu General Ball and Roller Co., LTD (China). Additionally, we compete with bearing manufacturers in house (captive) production. We believe that competition within the Metal Bearing Components Segment is based principally on quality, price and the ability to consistently meet customer delivery requirements. Management believes that our competitive strengths are our precision manufacturing capabilities, our wide product assortment, our reputation for consistent quality and reliability, our global manufacturing footprint and the productivity of our workforce. The markets for the Plastic and Rubber Components Segments products are also intensely competitive. Since the plastic injection molding industry is currently very fragmented, we must compete with numerous companies in each industry market segment. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources than we do and many currently offer competing products nationally and internationally. Our primary competitors in the plastic bearing retainer market are Nakanishi Manufacturing Corporation, Pressey and Lacey. Domestically, National, Nypro Inc., Thermotech, GW Plastics, C&J Industries and Nyloncraft are amongst the largest players in the precision plastic components markets. We believe that competition within the plastic injection molding industry is based principally on quality, price, design capabilities and speed of responsiveness and delivery. Management believes that our competitive strengths are product development, tool design, fabrication, and tight tolerance molding processes. With these strengths, we have built our reputation in the marketplace as a quality producer of technically difficult products. While intensely competitive, the markets for our rubber seal products are less fragmented than our plastic injection molding products. The bearing seal market is comprised of approximately six major competitors that range from small privately held companies to large global enterprises. Bearing seal manufacturers compete on design, product performance, service, quality and price. Our primary competitors in the U.S. bearing seal market are Freudenberg-NOK, Trelleborg, Trostel, Uchiyama and Paulstra/Hutchinson. Some bearing manufacturers are vertically integrated and mold their own seals. In the Autocam Precision Components Segment market, internal production of components by our customers can impact our business as the customers weigh the risk of outsourcing strategically critical components or producing in-house. Our primary outside competitors are, Haring, A. Berger, C&A Tool, American Turned Products, Camcraft and AB Heller. We generally win new business on the basis of technical competence and our proven track record of successful product development. Raw Materials The primary raw material used in our core ball and roller business of the Metal Bearing Components Group is 52100 Steel, which is high quality chromium steel. Our other steel requirements include metal strip, stainless steel, and type S2 rock bit steel. 6 Table of Contents The Metal Bearing Components Group businesses purchase substantially all of their 52100 Steel requirements from suppliers in Europe and Japan and all of their metal strip requirements from European suppliers and traders. If any of our current suppliers were unable to supply 52100 Steel to us, we cannot provide assurances that we would not face higher costs or production interruptions as a result of obtaining 52100 Steel from alternate sources. We purchase steel on the basis of composition, quality, availability and price. For precision steel balls, the pricing arrangements with our suppliers are typically subject to adjustment every three to six months in the U.S. and contractually adjusted on an annual basis within the European locations for the base steel price and quarterly for surcharge adjustments. Because 52100 Steel is principally produced by non-U.S. manufacturers, our operating results would be negatively affected in the event that the U.S. or European governments impose any significant quotas, tariffs or other duties or restrictions on the import of such steel, if the U.S. Dollar decreases in value relative to foreign currencies or if supplies available to us would significantly decrease. For the Plastic and Rubber Components Group, we base purchase decisions on quality, service and price. Generally, we do not enter into written supply contracts with our suppliers or commit to maintain minimum monthly purchases of resins, rubber compounds or metal stampings. The primary raw materials used by the Plastic and Rubber Components Group are engineered resins, injection grade nylon and proprietary rubber compounds. We purchase substantially all of our resin requirements from domestic manufacturers and suppliers. The majority of these suppliers are international companies with resin manufacturing facilities located throughout the world. We use certified vendors to provide a custom mix of proprietary rubber compounds. This segment also procures metal stampings from several domestic and foreign suppliers. The Autocam Precision Metal Components Group produces products from a wide variety of metals in various forms from various sources located in the U.S, Europe and Japan. Basic types include hot rolled steel, cold rolled steel (both carbon and alloy), stainless, extruded aluminum, die cast aluminum, gray and ductile iron castings, hot and cold forgings and mechanical tubing. Some material is purchased directly under contracts, some is consigned by the customer, and some is purchased directly from the steel mills. In our three segments, we have historically been affected by upward price pressure on steel principally due to general increases in global demand and global increased consumption of steel. In general, we pass through material cost fluctuations to our customers in the form of changes in selling price. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We do not own any U.S. or foreign patents, trademarks or licenses that are material to our business. We do rely on certain data and processes, including trade secrets and know-how, and the success of our business depends, to some extent, on such information remaining confidential. Each executive officer is subject to a non-competition and confidentiality agreement that seeks to protect this information. Additionally, all employees are subject to company ethics policies that prohibit the disclosure of information critical to the operations of our business. Seasonal Nature of Business Historically, due to a substantial portion of sales to European customers, seasonality has been a factor for our business in that some European customers typically reduce their production activities during the month of August. Environmental Compliance Our operations and products are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements both domestically and abroad relating to pollution control and protection of the environment. We maintain a compliance program to assist in preventing and, if necessary, correcting environmental problems. In the Metal Bearing Components Segment, the Kysucke Plant, the Veenendaal Plant, the Pinerolo Plant and Kunshan Plant are ISO 14000 or 14001 certified and all received the EPD (Environmental Product Declaration), except for the Veenendaal Plants stamped metal parts business. Based on information compiled to date, management believes that our current 7 Table of Contents operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have assessed conditional asset retirement obligations and have found them to be immaterial to the consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure that currently unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not materially affect our business or operations in the future. More specifically, although we believe that we dispose of waste in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot be certain that we will not incur significant liabilities in the future in connection with the clean-up of waste disposal sites. We maintain long-term environmental insurance covering the four manufacturing locations purchased with the Whirlaway acquisition (two of which have ceased operations). We are currently a potentially responsible party of a remedial action at a former waste recycling facility used by us. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers are: Name Age Position Richard D. Holder 52 Chief Executive Officer and President James H. Dorton 58 Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer L. Jeff Manzagol 59 Senior Vice President General Manager of the Metal Bearing Components Group Warren Veltman 53 Senior Vice President General Manager Autocam Precision Components Group James R. Widders 58 Senior Vice President Integration and Corporate Transformation Thomas C. Burwell, Jr. 46 Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller William C. Kelly, Jr. 56 Vice President Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary Set forth below is certain additional information with respect to each of our executive officers. Richard D. Holder was named President and Chief Executive Officer effective June 3, 2013. Prior to joining NN, he held a variety of leadership positions at Eaton Corp., a diversified global leader in power management and electrical systems. Most recently, he served as the President of Eaton Electrical Components, a division of Eatons Electrical Sector from 2010 to 2013. Other leadership positions at Eaton include Executive Vice President of Eaton Business Systems from 2007 to 2010, Vice President and General Manager of the Power Distribution and Assemblies Division from 2004 to 2006, and Vice President Supply Chain and Operational Excellence from 2001 to 2004. Prior to joining Eaton, Holder served as Director of Aircraft and Technical Purchasing for US Airways and also held a variety of leadership positions at AlliedSignal Corp. and Parker Hannifin Corp. James H. Dorton joined NN as Vice President of Corporate Development and Chief Financial Officer in June 2005. In May 2010, he was promoted to Senior Vice President. In January 2012, Mr. Dorton assumed the additional responsibility of General Manager of the Plastic and Rubber Components Segment of NN. Prior to joining NN, Mr. Dorton served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Specialty Foods Group, Inc. from 2003 to 2004, Vice President Corporate Development and Strategy and Vice President Treasurer of Bowater Incorporated from 1996 to 2002 and as Treasurer of Intergraph Corporation from 1989 to 1996. Mr. Dorton is a Certified Public Accountant. Jeff Manzagol joined NN as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Metal Bearing Components Group on October 6, 2014. Manzagol steps into his role with more than 36 years of metal bearings and high precision manufacturing experience. He most recently served as President of the Bearings Division at Kaydon Corporation. Previously, Manzagol held various leadership positions at SKF Group, including President and General Manager at the Armada, Michigan facility. Warren Veltman was appointed Senior Vice President and General Manager of NNs Autocam Precision Components Group in September 2014. Veltman served as Chief Financial Officer of Autocam Corporation from 1990 and Secretary and Treasurer since 1991. Prior to Autocam, he was an Audit Manager with Deloitte & Touche. James R. Widders was named Senior Vice President of Integration and Corporate Transformation in September 2014. Prior to that appointment Mr. Widders was Vice President and General Manager of the Precision Metal Components 8 Table of Contents Division on December 15, 2010. Mr. Widders had 13 years of service at Whirlaway prior to its acquisition by NN. Prior to joining NN, he served as Vice President and General Manager at Technifab, Inc. a manufacturer of molded foam components for the Aerospace industry and in various management positions with GE Superabrasives, a division of General Electric. Thomas C. Burwell, Jr. joined NN as Corporate Controller in September 2005. He was promoted to Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller in 2011. Prior to joining NN, Mr. Burwell held various positions at Coats, PLC from 1997 to 2005 ultimately becoming the Vice President of Finance for the U.S. Industrial Division. From 1992 to 1997, Mr. Burwell held various positions at the international accounting firm BDO Seidman, LLP. Mr. Burwell is a Certified Public Accountant. William C. Kelly, Jr. was named Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in June 2005. In March, 2003, Mr. Kelly was elected to serve as Chief Administrative Officer. In March 1999, he was elected Secretary of NN and still serves in that capacity as well as that of Treasurer. In February 1995, Mr. Kelly was elected Treasurer and Assistant Secretary. He joined NN in 1993 as Assistant Treasurer and Manager of Investor Relations. In July 1994, Mr. Kelly was elected to serve as NNs Chief Accounting Officer, and served in that capacity through March 2003. Prior to joining NN, Mr. Kelly served from 1988 to 1993 as a Staff Accountant and as a Senior Auditor with the accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Recent Developments On September 18, 2014, the Company announced that Frank T. Gentry, III will be retiring as the Companys Senior Vice President Managing Director Metal Bearing Components Division. Mr. Gentrys retirement was effective on January 4, 2015. Mr. Gentry served as Senior Vice President Managing Director Metal Bearing Components Division from May 2010 until his retirement. He served as Vice President from April 2009 to May 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Gentry served as Vice President General Manager U.S. Ball and Roller Division from August 1995 until April 2009. Mr. Gentry joined NN in 1981 and held various manufacturing management positions from 1981 to August 1995. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are risk factors that affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from the four acquisitions closed in 2014 or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. Our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the four acquisitions closed in 2014 will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate these businesses. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude realization of the full benefits expected. The difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: the diversion of managements attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the acquired businesses with our own; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; and challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy, which could materially impact the business, financial condition, or results of operations. Additionally, we have incurred a higher degree of financial leverage related to these four acquisitions and undertaken new credit facilities to finance the acquisitions. Finally, in relation to these acquisitions we have significantly higher 9 Table of Contents amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. These intangible assets will be subject to impairment testing and we could incur a significant impact to our financial statements in the form of an impairment if assumptions and expectations related to these four acquisitions are not realized. Acquisitions constitute an important part of our future growth strategy. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and continues to be a key element of our business strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. In addition, we may borrow funds to acquire other businesses, increasing our interest expense and debt levels. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to complete acquisitions without prior approval of our lenders. From time to time, a large portion of our capital structure may be in the form of debt. As such, we continue to heavily rely on our current lenders as a major source of long term capital. We are dependent on the continued provision of financing from our revolving credit lenders and our fixed rate notes lenders for a major portion of our capital structure. As such we must continually meet our existing financial and non-financial covenants or risk potential default. In the event of default, the degree to which our current lenders and/or potential future lenders will continue to lend to us will depend in large part on our results from operations and near term business prospects at the time of the default. A recession impacting both U.S. and European automotive and industrial markets once again could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our operations and implement our growth strategy. During the three month period ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced a sudden and significant reduction in customer orders driven by reductions in automotive and industrial end market demand across all our businesses. Additionally, during the latter part of 2011 and all of 2012, we experienced the impacts of a European recession in our European businesses. Prior to this time, our company had never been affected by a recession that had impacted both of our key geographic markets of the U.S. and Europe simultaneously. If we are impacted by a global recession in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows from operations and could lead to additional restructuring and/or impairment charges being incurred. However, we believe we would be in a much better position to weather any recession or economic downturn given the actions taken to permanently reduce our cost base including closing or ceasing operations at four former manufacturing locations. The demand for our products is cyclical, which could adversely impact our revenues. The end markets for fully assembled bearings and industrial and automotive components are cyclical and tend to decline in response to overall declines in industrial and automotive production. As a result, the market for the bearing components and precision metal, plastic, and rubber products we sell is also cyclical and impacted by overall levels of industrial and automotive production. Our sales have been, and can be in the future, negatively affected by adverse conditions in the industrial and/or automotive production sectors of the economy or by adverse global or national economic conditions generally. Additionally, any inflation in oil and any resulting increase in gasoline prices could have a negative impact on demand for our products as a result of consumer and corporate spending reductions. We depend on a very limited number of foreign sources for our primary raw material and are subject to risks of shortages and price fluctuation. The steel that we use to manufacture our metal bearing components is of an extremely high quality and is available from a limited number of producers on a global basis. Due to quality constraints in the U.S. steel industry, we obtain substantially all of the steel used in our U.S. operations of our Metal Bearing Components Segment from non-U.S. suppliers. In addition, we obtain most of the steel used in our European operations from a single European source. If we had to obtain steel from sources other than our current suppliers, we could face higher prices and transportation costs, increased duties or taxes, and shortages of steel. Problems in obtaining steel, particularly 52100 chrome steel 10 Table of Contents in the quantities that we require on commercially reasonable terms could increase our costs, adversely impacting our ability to operate our business efficiently and have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating and financial results. We depend heavily on a relatively limited number of customers, and the loss of any major customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of SKF, one of the largest bearing manufacturers in the world, accounted for approximately 26% of consolidated net sales in 2014. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of sales. During 2014, sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 66% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and would lower our operating profit margin and cash flows from operations. We operate in and sell products to customers outside the U.S. and are subject to several risks related to doing business internationally. Because we obtain a majority of our raw materials from overseas suppliers, actively participate in overseas manufacturing operations and sell to a large number of international customers, we face risks associated with the following: adverse foreign currency fluctuations; changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies and similar organizations; the potential imposition of trade restrictions or prohibitions; a U.S. federal tax code that discourages the repatriation of funds to the U.S.; the potential imposition of import or other duties or taxes; and unstable governments or legal systems in countries in which our suppliers, manufacturing operations, and customers are located. We do not have a hedging program in place associated with consolidating the operating results of our foreign businesses into U.S. Dollars. An increase in the value of the U.S. Dollar and/or the Euro relative to other currencies may adversely affect our ability to compete with our foreign-based competitors for international, as well as domestic, sales. Also, a change in the value of the Euro relative to the U.S. Dollar can negatively impact our consolidated financial results, which are denominated in U.S. Dollars. In addition, due to the typical slower summer manufacturing season in Europe, we expect that revenues in the third fiscal quarter of each year will be lower than in the other quarters of the year. Failure of our products could result in a product recall. The majority of our products go into bearings used in the automotive industry and other critical industrial manufacturing applications. A failure of our components could lead to a product recall. If a recall were to happen as a result of our components failing, we could bear a substantial part of the cost of correction. In addition to the cost of fixing the parts affected by the component, a recall could result in the loss of a portion of or all of the customers business. To partially mitigate these risks, we carry limited product recall insurance and have invested heavily in the TS16949 quality program. 11 Table of Contents Our growth strategy depends in part on companies outsourcing critical components, and if outsourcing does not continue, our business could be adversely affected. Our growth strategy depends in part on major customers continuing to outsource components and expanding the number of components being outsourced. This requires manufacturers to depart significantly from their traditional methods of operations. If major customers do not continue to expand outsourcing efforts or determine to reduce their use of outsourcing, our ability to grow our business could be materially adversely affected. Our market is highly competitive and many of our competitors have significant advantages that could adversely affect our business. The global markets for precision bearing components, precision metal components and plastic and rubber components are highly competitive, with a majority of production represented by the captive production operations of large manufacturers and the balance represented by independent manufacturers. Captive manufacturers make components for internal use and for sale to third parties. All of the captive manufacturers, and many independent manufacturers, are significantly larger and have greater resources than we do. Our competitors are continuously exploring and implementing improvements in technology and manufacturing processes in order to improve product quality, and our ability to remain competitive will depend, among other things, on whether we are able to keep pace with such quality improvements in a cost effective manner. Our production capacity has been expanded geographically in recent years to operate in the same markets as our customers. We have expanded our metal bearing components production facilities and capacity over the last several years. Historically, metal bearing component production facilities have not always operated at full capacity. Over the past several years, we have undertaken steps to address a portion of the capacity risk including closing or ceasing operations at certain plants and downsizing employment levels at others. As such, the risk exists that our customers may exit the geographic markets in which our production capacity is located and/or develop vendors in lower cost countries in which we do not have production capacity. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations and may decline. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: economic recession or other macro-economic factors; our operating and financial performance and prospects; quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; loss of any member of our senior management team; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; sales of our common stock by stockholders; general market conditions; domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; loss of a major customer; and the declaration and payment of a dividend. 12 Table of Contents The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, due to the market capitalization of our stock, our stock tends to be more volatile than large capitalization stocks that comprise the Dow Jones Industrial Average or Standard and Poors 500 Index. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable and may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, a classified board of directors and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to 5.0 million preferred shares without a stockholder vote. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call a special meeting. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Generally, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. We anticipate that the provisions of Section 203 may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 2. Properties The manufacturing plants for each of our segments are listed below. In addition, we own an office building in Johnson City, Tennessee which serves as our corporate offices. Metal Bearing Components Segment Manufacturing Operation Country Approximate Sq. Feet Owned or Leased Erwin Plant U.S.A. 155,000 Owned Mountain City Plant U.S.A. 86,000 Owned Pinerolo Plant Italy 330,000 Owned Kysucke Plant Slovakia 135,000 Owned Veenendaal Plant The Netherlands 159,000 Owned Kunshan Plant China 185,000 Leased RFK Valjcici d. d. Konjic Bosnia 54,500 Owned Plastic and Rubber Components Segment Manufacturing Operation Country Approximate Sq. Feet Owned or Leased Danielson Plant U.S.A. 50,000 Owned Lubbock Plant U.S.A. 228,000 Owned 13 Table of Contents Precision Metal Components Segment Manufacturing Operation Country Approximate Sq. Feet Owned or Leased Wellington Plant 1 U.S.A. 86,000 Leased Wellington Plant 2 U.S.A. 132,000 Leased VS Products Wheeling Plant U.S.A. 76,000 Leased VS Products Juarez Plant MEXICO 135,000 Leased Autocam Kentwood Plant 1 U.S.A. 188,000 Leased Autocam Kentwood Plant 2 U.S.A. 38,500 Leased Autocam Dowagiac Plant U.S.A. 67,000 Owned Autocam Marshall Plant 1 U.S.A. 56,000 Leased Autocam Marshall Plant 2 U.S.A. 58,700 Leased Autocam Boutuva Plant BRAZIL 42,000 Leased Autocam Sao Joao da Boa Plant 1 BRAZIL 76,500 Leased Autocam Sao Joao da Boa Plant 2 BRAZIL 73,200 Leased Bouverat Industries Plant FRANCE 75,300 Owned Autocam Poland Plant POLAND 71,000 Owned Autocam China Plant CHINA 68,900 Leased For more information, please see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Item 3. Legal Proceedings All legal proceedings are of an ordinary and routine nature and are incidental to our operations. Management believes that such proceedings should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In making that determination, we analyze the facts and circumstances of each case at least quarterly in consultation with our attorneys and determine a range of reasonably possible outcomes. The procedures performed include reviewing attorney and plaintiff correspondence, reviewing any filings made and discussing the facts of the case with local management and legal counsel. We have recognized loss contingencies of approximately $ 0 and $200,000 at December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, respectively, which we believe are adequate to cover all probable liabilities to be incurred by all of the cases in the aggregate. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (NASDAQ) under the trading symbol NNBR. As of March 10, 2015, there were approximately 3,500 holders of record of our common stock and the closing per share stock price as reported by NASDAQ was $19.73. 14 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of the common stock, as reported by NASDAQ for our two most recent fiscal years. Close Price High Low 2014 First Quarter $ 20.98 $ 17.16 Second Quarter 26.17 19.21 Third Quarter 29.91 23.71 Fourth Quarter 26.63 17.75 2013 First Quarter $ 10.03 $ 8.66 Second Quarter 11.41 8.46 Third Quarter 15.65 11.38 Fourth Quarter 20.95 15.33 The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock (consisting of stock price performance and reinvested dividends) from December 31, 2009 with the cumulative total return (assuming reinvestment of all dividends) of (i) the Value Line Machinery Index (Machinery) and (ii) the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index, for the period December 31, 2009 through December 31, 2014. The Machinery index is an industry index comprised of 49 companies engaged in manufacturing of machinery and machine parts, a list of which is available from the Company. The comparison assumes $100 was invested in our common stock and in each of the foregoing indices on December 31, 2009. We cannot assure you that the performance of the common stock will continue in the future with the same or similar trend depicted on the graph. 15 Table of Contents Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return* NN, Inc., Standard & Poors 500 and Value Line Machinery Index (Performance Results Through 12/31/14) * Cumulative total return assumes reinvestment of dividends. Cumulative Return 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 NN, Inc. 312.12 151.52 231.31 513.97 529.89 Standard & Poors 500 115.06 117.49 136.29 180.43 205.13 Machinery 166.30 189.29 247.93 357.87 389.91 The declaration and payment of dividends are subject to the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, credit agreement restrictions, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The following table sets forth the dividends per share paid during the last two fiscal years. 2013 Dividend First Quarter $ 0.00 Second Quarter $ 0.00 Third Quarter $ 0.12 Fourth Quarter $ 0.06 16 Table of Contents 2014 Dividend First Quarter $ 0.07 Second Quarter $ 0.07 Third Quarter $ 0.07 Fourth Quarter $ 0.07 See Part III, Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by Item 201 (d) of Regulation S-K. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data has been derived from our audited financial statements. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the audited consolidated financial statements, including notes thereto. (In Thousands, Except Per Share Data) Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Statement of Income Data: Net sales $ 488,601 $ 373,206 $ 370,084 $ 424,691 $ 365,369 Cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation shown separately below) 384,889 295,136 294,859 347,622 296,422 Selling, general and administrative 43,756 33,281 31,561 30,657 30,407 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative 9,248 Depreciation and amortization 22,146 16,957 17,643 17,016 19,195 (Gain) loss on disposal of assets 5 (17 ) (36 ) 808 Restructuring and impairment charges, excluding goodwill impairment 875 967 2,289 Income from operations 27,687 27,827 25,071 29,432 16,248 Interest expense 12,293 2,374 3,878 4,715 6,815 Write-off of unamortized debt issuance cost 130 Other expense (income), net 2,222 275 852 (1,388 ) (1,682 ) Income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes 13,172 25,178 20,341 26,105 10,985 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 5,786 8,000 (3,927 ) 5,168 4,569 Share of net income (loss) from joint venture 831 Net income $ 8,217 $ 17,178 $ 24,268 $ 20,937 $ 6,416 Basic income (loss) per share: Net income (loss) $ 0.46 $ 1.00 $ 1.43 $ 1.24 $ 0.39 Diluted income (loss) per share: Net income (loss) $ 0.45 $ 1.00 $ 1.42 $ 1.24 $ 0.39 Dividends declared $ 0.28 $ 0.18 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.00 Weighted average number of shares outstanding - Basic 17,887 17,176 17,009 16,817 16,455 Weighted average number of shares outstanding - Diluted 18,253 17,260 17,114 16,953 16,570 17 Table of Contents As of December 31, (In Thousands) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Balance Sheet Data: Current assets $ 242,799 $ 125,674 $ 127,296 $ 124,025 $ 115,670 Current liabilities 137,598 69,384 58,758 73,041 83,587 Total assets 712,713 262,402 265,343 259,461 248,555 Long-term debt 328,026 26,000 63,715 71,629 67,643 Stockholders equity 173,699 152,760 128,560 99,676 78,107 The year ended December 31, 2014, was significantly impacted by certain costs related to the Autocam acquisition and to a lesser extent the three other acquisitions completed in 2014. The total impact of these costs was $14,831 (before tax) and $13,553 (after tax). In addition, related to the Autocam acquisition, we made the decision to discontinue use of certain trade names and incurred an $875 impairment charge. The balance sheet for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes the impact of four acquisitions closed during 2014. With these acquisitions we acquired current assets and total assets of $92,910 and $433,947, respectively, and assumed current liabilities and total liabilities of $52,935 and $124,398, respectively. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the results were impacted by a favorable tax benefit of a net $7.3 million from removing valuation allowances on deferred tax assets in the U.S. Additionally, year ended December 31, 2012, results were negatively impacted by impairments of $1.0 million and after tax foreign exchange losses of $1.1 million related to intercompany notes. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the results were impacted by certain items including $5.0 million in additional start-up costs from new multi-year sales programs (all in our Precision Metals Components Segment) and $0.8 million in a one-time tax benefit from removing valuation allowances on certain deferred tax assets in Europe. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the results were impacted by certain items including $4.5 million from NN ceasing operations at the Tempe plant, $3.0 million in start-up costs from new multi-year sales programs (both in our Precision Metals Components Segment) and $1.1 million in costs related to the elimination of certain senior management positions. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for more information. 18 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Historical operating results and percentage relationships among any amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. Unless otherwise noted herein, all amounts are in thousands, except per share numbers. Overview and Management Focus Our strategy and management focus is based upon the following long-term objectives: Sales growth through acquisitions Sales growth in adjacent markets Organic and acquisitive growth within all our segments Global expansion of our manufacturing base to better address the global requirements of our customers Management generally focuses on these trends and relevant market indicators: Global industrial growth and economics Global automotive production rates Costs subject to the global inflationary environment, including, but not limited to: Raw material Wages and benefits, including health care costs Regulatory compliance Energy Raw material availability Trends related to the geographic migration of competitive manufacturing Regulatory environment for United States public companies Currency and exchange rate movements and trends Interest rate levels and expectations Management generally focuses on the following key indicators of operating performance: Sales growth Cost of products sold 19 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expense Income from operations and adjusted income from operations Net income and adjusted net income Cash flow from operations and capital spending Customer service reliability External and internal quality indicators Employee development Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies, including the assumptions and judgment underlying them, are disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies have been consistently applied in all material respects and address such matters as revenue recognition, inventory valuation and asset impairment recognition. Due to the estimation processes involved, management considers the following summarized accounting policies and their application to be critical to understanding our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that actual results will not significantly differ from the estimates used in these critical accounting policies. Business Combinations We allocate the total purchase price of the acquired tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the business combination date, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The purchase price allocation process required us to use significant estimates and assumptions, including fair value estimates, as of the business combination date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired company, in part based on valuation models that incorporate projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans and are inherently uncertain. Valuations are performed by management or third party valuation specialists under managements supervision. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, as appropriate, we may use one of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (including discounted cash flows from relief from royalty and excess earnings model), the market approach and/or the replacement cost approach. Examples of significant estimates used to value certain intangible assets acquired include but are not limited to: sales volume, pricing and future cash flows of the business overall future expected cash flows from customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets, including future price levels, rates of increase in revenue and appropriate attrition rate the acquired companys brand and competitive position, royalty rate quantum, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to benefit to the combined companys product portfolio cost of capital, risk-adjusted discount rates and income tax rates However, different assumptions regarding projected performance and other factors associated with the acquired assets may affect the amount recorded under each type of assets and liabilities, mainly between property plant and equipment, intangibles assets, goodwill and deferred income tax liabilities and subsequent assessment could result in future impairment charges. The purchase price allocation process also entails us to refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained surrounding facts and circumstances existing at acquisition date. Goodwill and Acquired Intangibles . For new acquisitions, we use estimates, assumptions and appraisals to allocate the purchase price to the assets acquired and to determine the amount of goodwill. These estimates are based on 20 Table of Contents market analyses and comparisons to similar assets. Annual procedures are required to be performed to assess whether recorded goodwill is impaired. The annual tests require management to make estimates and assumptions with regard to the future operations of its reporting units, and the expected cash flows that they will generate. These estimates and assumptions could impact the recorded value of assets acquired in a business combination, including goodwill, and whether or not there is any subsequent impairment of the recorded goodwill and the amount of such impairment. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as of October 1 and between annual tests if a triggering event occurs. The impairment procedures are performed at the reporting unit level. In testing goodwill, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a two-step test. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount including goodwill, the quantitative impairment test is required. Otherwise, no further testing is required. The decision to perform a qualitative assessment or perform a complete step 1 analysis is an annual decision made by management based on several factors including budget to actual performance, economic, market and industry considerations such as automotive production rates in the geographic markets we serve and cash flow from operations. U.S. GAAP prescribes a quantitative two-step process of testing for goodwill impairments. The first step is to determine if the carrying value of the reporting unit with goodwill is less than the related fair value of the reporting unit. We determine the fair value of the reporting unit through use of discounted cash flow methods and market based multiples of earning and sales methods obtained from a grouping of comparable publicly trading companies. We believe this methodology of valuation is consistent with how market participants would value reporting units. The discount rate and market based multiples used are specifically developed for the units tested regarding the level of risk and end markets served. Even though we do use other observable inputs (Level 2 inputs under the U.S. GAAP hierarchy) the calculation of fair value for goodwill would be most consistent with Level 3 under the U.S. GAAP hierarchy. If the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, is less than fair value of the reporting unit, the goodwill is not considered impaired. If the carrying value is greater than fair value then the potential for impairment of goodwill exists. The potential impairment is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit among the assets and liabilities based on a purchase price allocation methodology as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. The fair value of the goodwill is implied from this allocation and compared to the carrying value with an impairment loss recognized if the carrying value is greater than the implied fair value. Our indefinite lived intangible asset is accounted for similarly to goodwill. This asset is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing the fair value to the carrying value, using the relief from royalty rate method, and if the fair value is less than the carrying value, an impairment charge is recognized for the difference. The indefinite lived intangible asset was impaired during the year ended December 31, 2014, as management is in the process of phasing out the use of the trade name as a result of the Autocam acquisition. Income taxes. Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The calculation of tax assets, liabilities, and expenses under U.S. GAAP is largely dependent on management judgment of the current and future deductibility and utilization of taxable expenses and benefits using a more likely than not threshold. Specifically, the realization of deferred tax assets and the certainty of tax positions taken are largely dependent upon management weighting the current positive and negative evidence for recording tax benefits and expenses. Additionally, many of our positions are based on future estimates of taxable income and deductibility of tax positions. Particularly, our assertion of permanent reinvestment of foreign undistributed earnings is largely based on managements future estimates of domestic and foreign cash flows and current strategic foreign investment plans. In the event that the actual outcome from future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions or management plans and positions are amended, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and statement of financial position. (See Notes 1 and 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 21 Table of Contents The Company does not record a U.S. deferred tax liability for the excess of the book basis over the tax basis of its investments in foreign subsidiaries to the extent the foreign earnings meet the indefinite reversal criteria. As of the year ended December 31, 2014, we consider the unremitted foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be reinvested indefinitely. We base this assertion on two factors. First, our intention to invest in foreign countries that are strategically important to our Metal Bearing Components Segment and our Autocam Precision Components Segment and our customers. With the acquisitions completed in 2014, we have significantly expanded our international base of operations adding subsidiaries in Mexico, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Brazil, Poland, France and China which will require more foreign investment. Second, we have sufficient access to funds in the U.S. through projected free cash flows and the availability of our credit facilities to fund currently anticipated domestic operational and investment needs. As such, we do not expect unrepatriated foreign earnings to become subject to U.S. taxation. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets . Our long-lived assets include property, plant and equipment. The recoverability of the long-term assets is dependent on the performance of the companies which we have acquired or built, as well as the performance of the markets in which these companies operate. In assessing potential impairment for these assets, we will consider these factors as well as forecasted financial performance based, in large part, on management business plans and projected financial information which are subject to a high degree of management judgment and complexity. Future adverse changes in market conditions or adverse operating results of the underlying assets could result in having to record additional impairment charges not previously recognized. Results of Operations The following table sets forth for the periods indicated selected financial data and the percentage of our net sales represented by each income statement line item presented. As a Percentage of Net Sales Year ended December 31, 2014 2014 2013 2012 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of product sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 78.8 79.1 79.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 9.0 8.9 8.5 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative 1.9 Depreciation and amortization 4.5 4.5 4.8 (Gain) loss on disposal of assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Restructuring and impairment charges 0.1 0.0 0.3 Income from operations 5.7 7.5 6.7 Interest expense 2.5 0.6 1.0 Other (income) expense, net 0.5 0.1 0.2 Income before provision for income taxes 2.7 6.7 5.5 Provision for income taxes 1.2 2.1 (1.1 ) Share of net income (loss) from joint venture 0.2 Net income 1.7 % 4.6 % 6.6 % 22 Table of Contents Sales Concentration Sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of SKF, one of the largest bearing manufacturers in the world, accounted for approximately 26% of consolidated net sales in 2014. During 2014, sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 66% of our consolidated net sales. None of our other customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales for 2014. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and have a corresponding negative impact on our operating profit margin due to the operational leverage these customers provide. This could lead to sales volumes not being high enough to cover our current cost structure or to provide adequate operating cash flows or cause us to incur additional restructuring and/or impairment costs. Due to a limit on the amount of excess bearing component production capacity in the markets we serve, we believe it would be difficult for any of our top ten customers to take a significant portion of our business away in the short term. Year Ended December 31, 2014 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2013. The year ended December 31, 2014, was significantly impacted by certain costs related to the Autocam acquisition and to a lesser extent the three other acquisitions completed in 2014. The net after tax impact of these costs was $13,553. The following is a summary of these costs: 8,534 Reported in acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative are third party legal, accounting, valuation consulting and investment banking advisory fees. 1,384 Reported in cost of products sold, the fair value step-up in Autocam inventory sold in September. 1,398 Reported in interest expense, writing off debt issuance costs from our former credit facilities refinanced as part of the Autocam acquisition 1,576 Reported in interest expense, make whole interest costs for our former credit facilities refinanced as part of the Autocam acquisition 1,939 Integration costs related to the four acquisitions reported in cost of products sold, selling, general and administrative and other expense (income), net. (2,580) Tax benefits of above expenses that are tax deductible 1,302 Foreign tax credits expired unutilized due to mergers and acquisition costs noted above 13,553 Total We have provided a reconciliation of net income to adjusted net income (a non-GAAP measure used by management) and income from operations to adjusted income from operations (a non-GAAP measure used by management) to provide supplementary information about the impacts of acquisition related expenses. We believe that the presentation of adjusted income from operations and adjusted net income provides useful information to investors in assessing our results of operations and potential future results in light of the high level of acquisition expenses incurred during the period. These measures should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP income from operations or net income. You should not consider adjusted income from operations or adjusted net income in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Additionally, because adjusted income from operations and adjusted net income may be defined differently by other companies in our industry, our definitions may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies, thereby diminishing their utility. 23 Table of Contents OVERALL RESULTS Consolidated NN, Inc. (In Thousands of Dollars) 2014 2013 Change Net sales 488,601 $ 373,206 $ 115,395 Acquisitions 100,655 Foreign exchange effects 106 Volume 23,455 Price (1,282 ) Mix (3,846 ) Material inflation pass-through (3,693 ) Cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 384,889 295,136 89,753 Acquisitions 81,890 Foreign exchange effects 85 Volume 16,315 Cost reduction projects and other cost changes (8,901 ) Acquisition integration costs and inventory step-up 2,063 Inflation (1,699 ) Selling, general and administrative 43,756 33,281 10,475 Foreign exchange effects 72 Acquisitions 6,036 Increase in spending 4,367 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative 9,248 9,248 Depreciation and amortization 22,146 16,957 5,189 Foreign exchange effects 50 Acquisitions 6,963 Net decrease in depreciation expense (1,824 ) Restructuring and impairment charges 875 875 (Gain)/Loss on disposal of assets 5 (5 ) Income from operations 27,687 27,827 (140 ) Interest expense 12,293 2,374 9,919 Other expense, net 2,222 275 1,947 Income before provision (benefit) for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture 13,172 25,178 (12,006 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 5,786 8,000 (2,214 ) Share of net income (loss) from joint venture 831 831 Net income $ 8,217 $ 17,178 $ (8,961 ) Reconciliation of Net income to adjusted net income: Net Income 8,217 17,178 (8,961 ) Acquisition and integration costs in Cost of products sold 2,063 2,063 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative 9,248 9,248 Acquisition and integration costs in interest expense 2,974 2,974 Integration costs included in Other expense, net 319 319 Taxes benefits from acquisition related costs (1,277 ) (1,277 ) Acquisition related costs in share of net income (loss) from joint venture 226 226 After-tax foreign exchange gain on inter-company loans 1,197 84 1,113 After tax restructuring and impairment charges 577 482 95 Adjusted Net Income $ 23,544 $ 17,744 5,800 Reconciliation of income from operations to adjusted income from operations: Income from operations 27,687 27,827 (140 ) Acquisition and integration costs included in cost of products sold 2,063 2,063 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative 9,248 9,248 Restructuring and impairment charges 875 568 307 Adjusted Income from operations $ 39,873 $ 28,395 $ 11,478 24 Table of Contents Net Sales. Net sales increased during 2014 compared to 2013 principally due to sales from the four companies acquired in 2014. Net sales reported for 2014 includes four month of Autocam, six months of RFK, five months of Chelsea, and 11 months of VS. Additionally, net sales increased due to greater demand for our products in the European, North American and Asian automotive markets. The growth with our customers over the prior year was generally consistent with the overall growth in automotive production in those geographic regions. Additionally, we have continued to benefit from improved market share with certain customers and adjacent market expansion. The reduction in price and raw material pass-through (in 2014 compared to 2013) was driven mainly by lower levels of material inflation in our businesses which led to lower pass-through to our customers and due to contractual price decreases for certain long-term sales programs. The unfavorable sales impact related to mix was due to experiencing higher volumes of certain products that have lower prices than our average product assortment sold during the comparable period. The majority of the unfavorable mix occurred in the first six months of 2014. Cost of Products Sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below). Cost of products sold was primarily impacted by the addition of production costs added with the four companies acquired in 2014 as discussed above. Additionally, we experienced increased production costs at those units with higher sales volumes, as discussed above. Partially offsetting the increase in cost of products sold were benefits from specific continuous improvement projects undertaken subsequent to 2013. Selling, General and Administrative. The majority of the increase was due to the selling, general and administrative costs brought over from the four companies acquired in 2014. Additionally, spending has increased as we have invested in certain key functional positions and research and development costs related to the execution of our strategic plans for growth. Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative. Acquisition related costs are third party legal, accounting, valuation consulting and investment banking advisory fees incurred directly related to the Autocam acquisition and the three other acquisitions in 2014 to a lesser extent. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization was due to adding depreciation and amortization from the four acquisitions closed during 2014 including the related step-ups of certain property, plant and equipment to fair value and the addition of intangible assets related to the purchase price allocation. Interest expense. Interest expense increased $3.0 million in 2014 compared to 2013 due to the acquisition related expenses from writing off debt issuance costs and make whole interest payments related to our former credit facilities as part of the Autocam acquisition. Additionally, interest on the $350 million in debt NN entered into to complete the Autocam acquisition amounted to an additional $6.7 million in interest including the amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes. The 2014 effective tax rate of 44% reflects the impact of two items related to the merger and acquisition activity in 2014 including (1) $1,971 for non-deductible third party merger and acquisition as these cost were directly facilitative to the acquisitions; and (2) $1,302 for the expiration of foreign tax credits that could not be utilized during 2014 because of the merger related acquisition costs. In addition, the rate reflects an offset to the items above for the impact of foreign earnings taxed at lower rates of $1,714. 25 Table of Contents RESULTS BY SEGMENT METAL BEARING COMPONENTS SEGMENT (In Thousands of Dollars) Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Change Net sales $ 278,026 $ 259,459 $ 18,567 Foreign exchange effects 106 Acquisitions 5,092 Volume 18,459 Price (1,559 ) Mix (2,238 ) Material inflation pass-through (1,293 ) Income from operations $ 31,872 $ 27,380 $ 4,492 Net sales increased during 2014 compared to 2013 principally due to increased sales volumes resulting from greater demand for our products in the European, North American and Asian automotive markets and from better overall market penetration with our customers. The reduction in price and raw material pass-through was driven mainly by lower levels of material inflation in our businesses which led to lower pass-through to our customers. The unfavorable sales impact related to mix was due to certain products sold during 2014 being lower priced than our average product assortment sold during 2013. Finally, the segment benefited from the additional sales RFK (for six months) and Chelsea (for five months), each of which was acquired in 2014. Increased sales volumes in 2014 compared to 2013 added $5.3 million in incremental income from operations and the acquisition of RFK and Chelsea added $0.2 million in income from operations. Additionally, continuous improvement projects added $4.3 million to income from operations. Partially offsetting these increases were the unfavorable impacts of price/mix of $3.9 million and inflation of $1.5 million. AUTOCAM PRECISION COMPONENTS SEGMENT (In Thousands of Dollars) Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Change Net sales $ 177,224 $ 78,756 $ 98,468 Volume 6,697 Acquisitions 95,562 Price/Mix/Inflation (3,791 ) Income from operations $ 15,732 $ 9,112 $ 6,620 The increased sales during 2014 compared to 2013 were due to sales added with the acquisitions of Autocam (four months of sales) and VS (eleven months of sales). Additionally, sales increased due to greater demand with certain customers in the North American automotive market generally in line with the overall growth in automotive production and greater demand with our HVAC customer. The main driver of the increased segment income from operations was income from operations of the two acquired companies which added $3.6 million. The segment income from operations was further impacted by $2.5 million in incremental income from increased sales volumes and $2.3 million in income from continuous improvement projects and operational improvement. Partially offsetting these increases were the unfavorable impacts of price/mix of $1.6 million. 26 Table of Contents PLASTIC AND RUBBER COMPONENTS SEGMENT (In Thousands of Dollars) Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Change Net sales $ 33,351 $ 34,991 $ (1,640 ) Volume (1,698 ) Price/Mix/Inflation 58 Income from operations $ 1,231 $ 592 $ 639 Sales decreased due to lower volume from certain sales programs ending. Segment income from operations was down $0.7 million due to the negative effects of lower sales volumes. Benefits from continuous improvement projects had a favorable $1.3 million impact on income from operations more than offsetting the unfavorable volume effects. Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2012. OVERALL RESULTS Consolidated NN, Inc. (In Thousands of Dollars) 2013 2012 Change Net sales $ 373,206 $ 370,084 $ 3,122 Foreign exchange effects 5,602 Volume 2,632 Price (1,023 ) Mix (445 ) Material inflation pass-through (3,644 ) Cost of products sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 295,136 294,859 277 Foreign exchange effects 4,559 Volume 1,663 Cost reduction projects and other cost changes (3,911 ) Inflation (2,034 ) Selling, general and administrative 33,281 31,561 1,720 Foreign exchange effects 320 Severance costs not related to an exit activity 1,014 Increase in spending 386 Depreciation and amortization 16,957 17,643 (686 ) Foreign exchange effects 269 Net decrease in depreciation expense (955 ) Restructuring and impairment charges 967 (967 ) Interest expense 2,374 3,878 (1,504 ) (Gain)/Loss on disposal of assets 5 (17 ) 22 Other expense (income), net 275 852 (577 ) Income before provision (benefit) for income taxes 25,178 20,341 4,837 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 8,000 (3,927 ) 11,927 Net income $ 17,178 $ 24,268 $ (7,090 ) Non-recurring benefits/expense. Included in net income for the year ended December 31, 2012, were two items that we do not expect to recur and as such impact the overall analysis of the 2012 income statement in comparison to 2013 and future periods. First, the 2012 full year net income of $24.3 million was materially impacted by $7.3 million in favorable net tax benefits that are not expected to recur. The net tax benefits were a combination of a $9.8 27 Table of Contents million reversal of valuation allowances on the majority of U.S. deferred tax assets and other miscellaneous favorable tax adjustments of $0.5 million, partially offset by $3.1 million in taxes on a return of basis transaction (See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Additionally, in the year ended December 31, 2012, net income was negatively impacted by the $1.0 million impairment charge, net of tax, related to our former manufacturing facility in Kilkenny, Ireland. Excluding these two impacts, net income for 2012 would have been $17,968. Net Sales. Net sales increased during 2013 over 2012 principally due to increased sales volumes at units selling into the European, North American, and Asian automotive and heavy truck markets. These gains were partially offset by lower sales volumes related to customer and platform specific issues, customers reducing their inventory levels, and due to certain segments deemphasizing lower margin, non-strategic programs. During the first half of 2013, our sales were negatively impacted by European auto market weakness. During the third and fourth quarters, we began to experience positive sales momentum in Europe due to better overall market penetration with our customers and from increased demand in the European automotive and heavy truck markets. Additionally, we have experienced increased sales demand for our products in the North American and Asian automotive markets during the last three quarters of 2013. Despite the positive sales momentum, our businesses continue to be effected by the historically low European automotive and industrial markets and slowing overall economic growth in Asia. Beyond the sales volume changes, Euro denominated sales increased due to appreciation in the Euro compared to the U.S. Dollar. Mostly offsetting the increase due to foreign exchange were reductions in price and raw material pass-through driven by lower levels of material inflation incurred in 2013, when compared with 2012, which led to lower pass-through to our customers and due to contractual price decreases for certain long-term sales programs. Cost of Products Sold (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below). The costs of products sold increased primarily in 2013 due to Euro costs appreciating relative to the U.S. Dollar and from production costs incurred to support the higher overall sales volumes discussed above. These increases were partially offset by benefits from specific continuous improvement projects undertaken during 2013 and from lower overall raw material inflation experienced during 2013. Selling, General and Administrative. The increase in spending in selling, general and administrative expenses in 2013 was primarily due to severance costs not related to an exit activity, relocation costs for new management members, higher professional fees for consulting and recruitment and higher foreign exchange expenses. Interest Expense. The reduction in interest expense was due to the reduction in the interest rate charged on our variable rate loans effective with the October 2012 amendment and from lower overall debt levels in 2013 compared to 2012. Provision for Income Taxes. The difference between the effective tax rate of 32% for 2013 versus (19%) for 2012 was primarily due to the reversal of valuation allowances on U.S. deferred tax assets of $12.7 million in 2012, offset by the gain we recorded on a return of basis from our foreign subsidiaries of $3,079. RESULTS BY SEGMENT METAL BEARING COMPONENTS SEGMENT (In Thousands of Dollars) Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Change Net sales $ 259,459 $ 252,241 $ 7,218 Foreign exchange effects 5,602 Volume 6,872 Price (1,130 ) Mix (1,337 ) Material inflation pass-through (2,789 ) Segment net income $ 18,519 $ 20,980 $ (2,461 ) The majority of the increase in net sales was due to higher sales volumes experienced at units selling into the European, North American and Asian automotive markets and the European heavy truck market. Partially offsetting 28 Table of Contents the volume increases were lower levels of price increases and material inflation incurred by our businesses and passed on to our customers in 2013 versus 2012. We experienced positive sales momentum in Europe during the second half of 2013, due to better overall market penetration with our customers and from increased demand in the European automotive and heavy truck markets. Additionally, we experienced increased demand in the North American and Asian automotive markets subsequent to the first quarter of 2013. The segment net income in 2013 was negatively impacted by the U.S. unit of the segment recognizing tax expense of $4.0 million in 2013 versus not recognizing tax expense in 2012 as all the deferred tax assets of our U.S. units were offset by full valuation allowances. Beyond the tax effects the results of the segment in 2013 were actually favorable as compared to 2012 as segment pre-tax income was $2.1 million higher in 2013. The 2013 segment net income was favorably impacted by $1.8 million after-tax from profits related to higher sales and by $1.6 million after-tax from continuous improvement projects undertaken in 2013. Partially offsetting the favorable impacts, segment net income was reduced by $1.4 million after-tax from reductions related to prices, material pass throughs and mix. PRECISION METAL COMPONENTS SEGMENT (In Thousands of Dollars) Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Change Net sales $ 78,756 $ 76,746 $ 2,010 Volume 2,099 Price/Mix/Inflation (89 ) Segment net income $ 5,799 $ 9,110 $ (3,311 ) The increased sales volumes were due to higher demand with certain customers in the North American automotive market during 2013 net of the segment deemphasizing certain non-strategic platforms in an effort to improve operating performance and margins. The reduction in segment net income was primarily due to recording $3.0 million in U.S. tax expense during 2013 versus not recognizing tax expense for the segment during 2012 as all the deferred tax assets of our U.S. units were offset by full valuation allowances. Additionally, in 2012 the segment net income included $1.8 million of net tax benefits related to the reversal of valuation allowances on segment deferred tax assets at December 31, 2012. Beyond the tax effects, segment pre-tax income was $2.2 million higher in 2013 compared to 2012. The segment net income benefitted from profits of $0.6 million after-tax from the higher sales volumes and through cost reduction projects and operational improvements of $0.9 million after-tax. PLASTIC AND RUBBER COMPONENTS SEGMENT (In Thousands of Dollars) Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Change Net sales $ 34,991 $ 41,097 $ (6,106 ) Volume (6,340 ) Price/Mix/Inflation 234 Segment net income $ 383 $ 3,921 $ (3,538 ) Sales were down due to lower volume from certain sales programs ending, deemphasizing certain low margin platforms and the timing of demand at certain industrial product customers. Segment net income decreased $1.7 million after-tax due to the negative effects of lower sales volumes and not being able to fully offset fixed production costs as sales declined. Additionally, 2012 segment net income was favorably impacted by $2.2 million of net tax benefits related to the reversal of valuation allowances on segment deferred tax assets at December 31, 2012. 29 Table of Contents Changes in Financial Condition from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014. From December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014, our total assets increased $450.3 million and our current assets increased $117.1 million. The vast majority of these increases were due to total assets and current assets acquired of $433.9 million and $92.9 million, respectively, and the related preliminary fair value step-ups for the four acquisitions completed in 2014. Foreign exchange translation impacted the balance sheet in comparing changes in account balances from December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 by decreasing total assets $19.4 million and current assets $8 million. Beyond acquisition and foreign exchange effects, the accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2014, was higher due to increased sales volume experienced in 2014 compared with sales levels in 2013. The days sales outstanding at December 31, 2014 were up slightly from the days sales outstanding at December 31, 2013 due to higher sales volumes with certain customers that have extended credit terms. Our inventory balance increased $9.8 million due primarily for building inventory ahead of expected customer demand increases in the first quarter of 2015. Additionally, other non-current assets increased by $8.6 million due to debt issuance cost incurred related to our new credit facilities entered into concurrent with the Autocam acquisition, net of amortization. From December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014, our total liabilities increased $429.3 million. The majority of the increase was from the $313.7 million increase in long-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt primarily due to the four acquisitions in 2014 and $124.4 million of liabilities assume related to the four acquisitions completed in 2014. Working capital, which consists principally of accounts receivable and inventories offset by accounts payable and current maturities of long-term debt, was $105.2 million at December 31, 2014 as compared to $56.3 million at December 31, 2013. The increase in working capital was due primarily to acquiring $40.0 million in net working capital in the four acquisition completed in 2014. The remainder of the increase was due primarily to the increase in accounts receivable and inventory discussed above. Cash provided by operations was $30.7 million in 2014 compared with cash provided by operations of $31.7 million in 2013. The difference was better working capital management in 2014. Cash flow provided by operations was $31.7 million for 2013 compared with $37.4 million for 2012. The unfavorable variance in cash flow provided by operations was principally due to increasing net working capital during 2013 to meet the increased sales and production volume levels. Cash used by investing activities was $281.6 million in 2014 compared with cash used by investing activities of $15.2 million in 2013. The difference was primarily due to the $257.7 million in cash paid to acquire Autocam, VS, Chelsea and RFK, net of cash received. Cash used by investing activities was $15.2 million in 2013 compared with cash used by investing activities of $14.8 million in 2012. The decrease was primarily due to $1.8 million in lower spending on acquisitions of property plant and equipment in 2013 as planned mostly offset by receipt of $1.9 million for the pay-off of a note receivable in 2012. Cash provided by financing activities was $287 million in 2014, compared with cash used by financing activities of $32.3 million in 2013. The difference was primarily related to using debt to fund the acquisitions of Autocam, VS, Chelsea and RFK. Cash used by financing activities was $32.3 million for 2013 compared with cash used by financing activities of $9.6 million in 2012. The decrease was primarily due to the net repayment of short-term and long-term debt of $33 million in 2013 driven by reducing the cash balances by $16.0 million and from the $17.1 million in free cash flow as discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Amounts outstanding under our $350.0 million term loan facility and our $100.0 million asset backed revolver as of December 31, 2014 were $340.0 million, net of discount, and $0.0 million respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we can borrow up to $61 million under our asset backed revolver subject to limitations based on our U.S. borrowing base calculation which is calculated based on our accounts receivable and inventory. The $61 million of availability is net of $2.1 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2014, which are considered as usage of the facility. We are investigating means to increase our borrowing base such as utilizing credit insurance on our foreign receivables. The only financial covenant on our new debt agreement is a springing fixed charge coverage covenant if our availability under the asset backed revolver is less than $8.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we were not subject to this covenant. 30 Table of Contents Our new $350.0 million term loan facility requires us to pay 5% per annum or $17,500 for the next seven years against the principal of the note. Additionally, using the December 31, 2014 balance the annual interest payments on the $345.0 million term loan would be $20.7 million. We believe that funds generated from operations of the combined NN and Autocam will provide sufficient cash flow to service these required debt payments. Our arrangements with our domestic customers typically provide that payments are due within 30 to 60 days following the date of our shipment of goods, while arrangements with foreign customers of our domestic business (other than foreign customers that have entered into an inventory management program with us) generally provide that payments are due within 60 to 120 days following the date of shipment to allow for additional transit time and customs clearance. Under the Metal Bearing Components Segments inventory management program with certain customers, payments typically are due within 30 days after the customer uses the product. Our arrangements with European customers regarding due dates vary from 30 to 90 days following date of sale for European based customers and 60 to 120 days from customers outside of Europe to allow for additional transit time and customs clearance. Our sales and receivables can be influenced by seasonality due to our relative percentage of European business coupled with many foreign customers slowing production during the month of August. For information concerning our quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We invoice and receive payment from many of our customers in Euros as well as other currencies. Additionally, we are party to various third party and intercompany loans, payables and receivables denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. As a result of these sales, loans, payables and receivables, our foreign exchange transaction and translation risk has increased. Various strategies to manage this risk are available to management including producing and selling in local currencies and hedging programs. As of December 31, 2014, no currency hedges were in place. In addition, a strengthening of the U.S. Dollar and/or Euro against foreign currencies could impair our ability to compete with international competitors for foreign as well as domestic sales. During 2015, we expect to spend approximately $45 to $55 million on capital expenditures, the majority of which relate to new or expanded business. We believe that funds generated from operations and borrowings from the credit facilities will be sufficient to finance our capital expenditures and working capital needs through December 2015. We base this assertion on our current availability for borrowing of up to $60 million and our forecasted positive cash flow from operations for the year ending December 31, 2015. The table below sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2014 (in thousands): Certain Contractual Obligations Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years After 5 years Long-term debt including current portion $ 350,186 $ 22,160 $ 35,170 $ 30,897 $ 261,959 Expected interest payments 115,533 20,646 37,818 33,844 23,225 Operating leases 23,475 5,434 8,542 4,045 5,454 Capital leases 24,279 6,236 9,166 4,374 4,503 Total contractual cash obligations $ 513,473 $ 54,476 $ 90,696 $ 73,160 $ 295,141 There are $7.0 million of long-term post-employment benefits, the payment of which depends on various factors including at which point employees leave the Company. Based on the best available information, we believe the vast majority of these payments will be made after 5 years. We have approximately $4.8 million in unrecognized tax benefits and related penalties and interest accrued within the liabilities section of our balance sheet. We are unsure when or if at all these amounts might be paid to U.S. and/or foreign taxing authorities. Accordingly, these amounts have been excluded from the table above. (See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 31 Table of Contents Functional Currencies We currently have operations in Slovakia, Italy, The Netherlands, and France, all of which are Euro participating countries. Each of our European facilities sell product to customers in many of the Euro participating countries. The Euro has been adopted as the functional currency at all NN locations in Europe. The functional currency of both NN Asia and Autocam Asia are the Chinese Yuan and Autocam, Poland is the Zloty. Seasonality and Fluctuation in Quarterly Results Our net sales historically have been seasonal in nature, due to a significant portion of our sales being to European customers that significantly slow production during the month of August. For information concerning our quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. (See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Inflation and Changes in Prices The cost base of our operations has been materially affected by steel inflation during recent years. Due to the ability to pass on this steel inflation to our customers the overall financial impact has been minimized. The prices for steel, engineered resins and other raw materials which we purchase are subject to material change. Our typical pricing arrangements with steel suppliers are subject to adjustment every three to six months in the U.S. and annually in Europe for base prices but quarterly for scrap surcharge adjustments. In the past, we have been able to minimize the impact on our operations resulting from the steel price fluctuations by adjusting selling prices to our customers periodically in the event of changes in our raw material costs.