Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before deciding whether to purchase shares of our Class A common stock. You should also carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, including matters addressed in the above section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Unless otherwise indicated, references in these risk factors to our business being harmed will include harm to our business, reputation, brand, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. In such event, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a limited operating history at the current scale of our business and are still scaling up our monetization efforts, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and there is no assurance we will be able to scale our business for future growth. We commenced operating the Nextdoor platform in 2011 and began supporting the platform with advertising in 2016. Moreover, we recently introduced our NEXT initiative, a planned complete transformation of our platform with the goal of making our platform more robust and engaging for users, as well as more compelling for advertisers. Our limited operating history at the current scale of our business may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries, including challenges in accurate financial planning and forecasting, increasing competition and expenses as we effectively scale our business, and our ability to achieve market acceptance of our platform and attract, engage and retain users, who we call neighbors (which includes individuals) and organizations (which includes businesses and public agencies, including paying customers such as advertisers). You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties that we may encounter as a business with a limited operating history. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in addressing these and other challenges we may face in the future, and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected if we do not manage these risks successfully. We may not be able to sustain or increase our current rate of growth, which is a risk characteristic often shared by companies with limited operating histories participating in rapidly evolving industries. Additionally, we are still in the early stages of monetizing our platform. Our growth strategy depends on, among other things, increasing neighbors on the network, increasing engagement, developing new and improving existing products for neighbors and organizations, attracting more advertisers (including expanding our sales efforts to reach advertisers in additional international markets), scaling our business with existing advertisers, and delivering targeted advertisements based on neighbors personal taste and interests. Given the current macroeconomic environment, it may be more difficult for us to capitalize on our growth strategies. There can be no assurance that we will successfully increase monetization on our platform or that we will sustain or increase the current growth rate of our revenue. Adverse global economic and financial conditions could harm our business and financial condition. Adverse global economic and financial events and the effects thereof, such as health epidemics or pandemics, the wars in Ukraine and the Middle East, inflation, changing interest rates, potential recessions, the implementation of tariffs by the United States, China, or other governments, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, actual or perceived instability in the global banking system, supply chain issues and inventory and labor shortages, have caused, and could in the future cause, disruptions and volatility in global financial markets. These conditions have in the past and may in the future translate to cost increases to us and advertisers and lead to decreased spending by our advertisers. In addition, since the majority of our revenue is derived from advertisers within the United States, economic conditions in the United States have a greater impact on us. We may not perform well in adverse macroeconomic conditions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. If advertisers reduce or eliminate their spending with us, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Substantially all of our revenue is currently generated from the sales of advertising on our platform in the form of online display advertisements, which include sponsored posts and local deals. Our advertisers typically do not have long-term advertising spend commitments with us. Many of our advertisers spend only a relatively small portion of their overall advertising budget with us. In 11 Table of Contents addition, advertisers may view some of the features on our platform as experimental and unproven. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver advertisements in an effective manner, or if advertisers do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately generate revenue, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: decreases in neighbor or advertiser engagement on the platform; slower than anticipated growth in, or lack of growth or decreases in, the number of neighbors active on the platform; the impact of macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry in general, among specific types of advertisers or within particular geographies, including but not limited to health epidemics or pandemics, actual or perceived instability in the global banking system, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, the implementation of tariffs by the United States, China, or other governments, a potential recession, inflation and changing interest rates; platform changes (such as the migration to our proprietary ad server) or inventory management decisions that change the size, format, frequency, or relative prominence of advertisements displayed on the platform; competitors offering more attractive pricing for advertisements that we are unable or unwilling to match; a decrease in the quantity or quality of advertisements shown to neighbors; changes to laws, third-party policies or applications that limit our ability to deliver, target, or measure the effectiveness of advertising, including changes by mobile operating system and browser providers such as Apple and Google; changes to demographics of our neighbors that make us less attractive to advertisers; an increase in neighbors who exercise opt-out rights under privacy laws to restrict the advertisements they receive; neighbors that upload content or take other actions that are deemed to be hostile, inappropriate, illicit, objectionable, illegal, or otherwise not consistent with the brand of our advertisers; adverse government actions or legislative, regulatory, or other legal developments; neighbor behavior or changes to the platform that may affect, among other things, the safety and security of other neighbors or the cultivation of a positive and inclusive online community; adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us; implementing or enforcing policies, such as advertising policies, community guidelines, and other terms or service that are perceived negatively by advertisers; our ability to develop and improve our products for advertisers; limitations in, or reductions to, the availability, accuracy, utility, and security of analytics and measurement solutions offered by us or third parties that are intended to demonstrate the value of our advertisements to advertisers; and changes to our data privacy practices that affect the type or manner of advertising that we are able to provide, including as a result of changes to laws, regulations or regulatory actions, such as the European Union and United Kingdoms respective General Data Protection Regulations (collectively, GDPR), European Directive 2002/58/EC (the ePrivacy Directive), the Canadian Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), the Australia Privacy Act 1988 along with the 2024 reforms thereto and the Australian Privacy Principles (APPs), the CCPA in California, and comparable U.S. state privacy laws in over a third of other states, or changes to third-party policies. From time to time, certain of these factors have adversely affected our revenue to varying degrees. The occurrence of any of these or other factors in the future could result in a reduction in demand for our advertisements, which may reduce the prices we receive for our advertisements, or cause advertisers to stop or reduce their spend with us, either of which would negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Similar occurrences in the future may impair our ability to maintain or increase the quantity or quality of advertisements shown to neighbors and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain advertisers depends on our ability to collect and use data and develop products to enable us to effectively deliver and accurately measure advertisements on the Nextdoor platform. Most advertisers rely on tools that measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns in order to allocate their advertising spend among various formats and platforms. If we are unable to accurately measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform, if at all, or if we are unable to convince advertisers that our platform should be part of a larger advertising budget, our ability to increase the demand and pricing of our advertising tools and maintain or scale our revenue may be limited or decline. Our ability to develop and offer products that accurately measure the effectiveness of a campaign on our platform is critical to our ability to attract new advertisers and retain and increase spend from our existing advertisers. We are continually developing and improving our products for advertisers and such efforts have and are likely to continue to require significant time and resources and additional investment, and in some cases, we have relied on, and may in the future rely on, third parties to provide data and technology needed to provide certain measurement data to our advertisers. If we cannot continue to develop and improve our products for advertisers in a timely fashion, those products are not reliable, or the measurement results are inconsistent with advertisers expectations or goals, our revenue could be adversely affected. In addition, web and mobile browser developers, such as Apple, Microsoft or Google, have implemented and may continue to implement changes, including requiring additional user permissions, in their browser or device operating system that impair our ability to measure and improve the effectiveness of advertising on our platform. Such changes include limiting the use of first-party and third-party cookies and related tracking technologies, such as mobile advertising identifiers, and other changes that limit our ability to collect information that allows us to attribute neighbors actions on advertisers websites to the effectiveness of advertising campaigns run on our platform. For example, Apple has its Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP) feature in its Safari browser, which blocks some or all third-party cookies by default on mobile and desktop and has become increasingly restrictive over time. Apples related Privacy-Preserving Ad Click attribution, intended to preserve some of the functionality lost with ITP, would, for example, prevent uniquely identifying individuals and devices across sites for the purpose of Ad Click attribution, prevent measurement outside a narrowly-defined attribution window, and prevent advertisement re-targeting and optimization. Further, Apple uses an App Tracking Transparency framework that limits the ability of mobile applications to request an iOS devices advertising identifier and affects our ability to track neighbors actions off our platform and connect their interactions with on-platform advertising. Google recently went back on its plans to phase out third-party cookies, but is exploring ways to allow users to make browser-level privacy choices that could impact our advertising. These web and mobile browser developers have also implemented and may continue to implement changes and restrictions in browser or device functionality that limit our ability to communicate with or understand the identity of our neighbors. These restrictions and changes make it more difficult for us to provide the most relevant advertisements to our neighbors, as well as decrease our ability to measure the effectiveness of, re-target or optimize advertising on our platform. Developers may release additional technology that further inhibits our ability to collect data that allows us to measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform. Any other restriction, whether by law, regulation, policy (including third-party policies), user opt-outs or otherwise, on our ability to collect and share data which our advertisers find useful or that further reduce our ability to measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform, would impede our ability to attract, grow and retain advertisers. Advertisers and other third parties who provide data that helps us deliver personalized, relevant advertising may restrict or stop sharing this data and it therefore may not be possible for us to collect this data within the platform or from another source. We rely heavily on our ability to collect and share data and metrics for our advertisers to help new and existing advertisers understand the performance of advertising campaigns. If advertisers do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations of our neighbors and neighbor engagement, or there are inaccuracies in our metrics, advertisers may decrease or eliminate allocations of their budgets or resources to our platform, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to add new neighbors or retain current neighbors, or if current neighbors engage less with the Nextdoor platform, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely impacted. The number of neighbors that use the Nextdoor platform and their level of engagement on the platform are critical to our success. We must continue to engage and retain existing neighbors on our platform as well as attract, engage and retain new neighbors. The number of neighbors on the Nextdoor platform may not continue to grow at historical growth rates or at all, and it may even decline. In order to attract new neighbors, we must engage with neighbors in existing neighborhoods on our platform and add new neighborhoods to the Nextdoor platform, both domestically and internationally. If our neighbor growth rate slows or reverses, our financial performance will be adversely impacted unless we can increase our engagement with our existing neighbors and our monetization efforts to offset any such reduction or decrease in neighborhood growth rate. 13 Table of Contents If current and potential neighbors do not perceive their experience with the Nextdoor platform to be useful, the content generated on the platform to be valuable or relevant or the social connections with fellow neighbors to be worthwhile, we may not be able to attract new neighbors, retain existing neighbors or maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement on our platform. In addition, if our existing neighbors decrease the frequency or duration of their engagement or the growth rate of our active neighbor base slows or reverses, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenses than we currently anticipate in order to acquire new neighbors or retain current neighbors. We recently introduced our NEXT initiative, a planned complete transformation of our platform with the goal of making our platform more robust and engaging for users, as well as more compelling for advertisers. We may expend significant resources and management bandwidth on the implementation of this initiative, but those efforts may not be successful and may not result in the expected benefits, including increased neighbor satisfaction or engagement, or added neighbors on our platform. There are many factors that could negatively impact our ability to grow, retain and engage current and prospective neighbors, including but not limited to: neighbors increasing their engagement with competitors platforms, products or services instead of, or more frequently than, our platform; changes in the amount of time neighbors spend across all applications and platforms, including our platform; failing to introduce platform enhancements that neighbors find engaging or if we introduce new features, terms, policies or procedures, or make changes to our platform, including changes we are implementing with our NEXT initiative, that are not favorably received by current or prospective neighbors; technical or other problems frustrating the neighbor experience, such as problems that prevent us from delivering our service in a fast and reliable manner; neighbors having difficulty installing, updating or otherwise accessing the Nextdoor platform on mobile devices through the app or web browsers; neighbor behavior on the Nextdoor platform changing, including a decrease in the quality and frequency of content shares on the platform; decreases in neighbor or advertiser sentiment due to questions about the quality or usefulness of our platform, concerns about the nature of content made available on the platform, concerns related to privacy, safety, security, well-being or other factors; changes mandated by legislation, government and regulatory authorities, or litigation that adversely impact our platform or neighbors; failing to obtain or attract engaging third-party content; third parties preventing their content from being displayed on the Nextdoor platform; changes we may make to how we promote different features on our platform; initiatives designed to attract and retain neighbors and engagement are unsuccessful or discontinued, whether as a result of actions by us, third parties, or otherwise; we, or other partners and companies in the industry are the subject of adverse media reports or other negative publicity; we are unable to combat spam, harassment, cyberbullying or other hostile, inappropriate, abusive or offensive content or usage on our platform; or we cannot preserve and enhance our brand and reputation as a trusted neighborhood networking community. Any decrease in neighbor growth, retention or engagement could render our service less attractive to neighbors or advertisers, and could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, neighbor verification is a critical feature of our platform because it demonstrates that neighbors are real people and businesses in the neighborhood they desire to join. If we were to change our verification methods, that may adversely impact our ability to add new neighbors or retain existing neighbors. 14 Table of Contents Our business is highly competitive. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. We compete with companies that provide a variety of internet products, services, content, and online advertising. In addition, aspects of our platform compete with other products and services, including home services, classifieds, recommendations, and search engines. Of these companies, we most directly compete with social media companies that offer local products to advertisers and users, including large companies such as Meta (including through Facebook and Instagram) and Alphabet (including through Google), and other companies that provide home services, classifieds, recommendations, and search engines. We compete with these companies to attract, engage, and retain users and to attract and retain advertisers. If we introduce or acquire new products and services or evolve our platform in a way that subjects us to additional competition or as existing competitors introduce new products and services or evolve their platforms, we may fail to engage or retain neighbors or attract new neighbors, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Some of our current and potential competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising spend. They have large distributed sales forces and an increasing amount of control over mobile distribution channels. Many of these competitors economies of scale allow them to have access to larger volumes of data and platforms that are used on a more frequent basis than the Nextdoor platform, which may enable them to better understand their member base and develop and deliver more targeted advertising. Such competitors may not need to rely on third-party data, including data provided by advertisers, to effectively target the campaigns of advertisers, which could make their advertising products more attractive to advertisers than our platform if such third-party data ceases to be available to us, whether because of regulatory changes, privacy or cybersecurity concerns or other reasons. If our advertisers do not believe that our value proposition is as compelling as those of our competitors, we may not be able to attract new advertisers or retain existing ones, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our competitors may develop products, features, or services that are similar to our platform or that achieve greater acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts or marketing campaigns, or may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Some competitors may gain a competitive advantage relative to us in areas where we operate, including by more effectively responding to changes to third-party products and policies or by integrating competing platforms, applications, or features into products they control such as mobile device operating systems, search engines, browsers, or e-commerce platforms. For example, Apple introduced changes starting with iOS 14.5 that limit our ability, and the ability of others in the digital advertising industry, to track individual users and devices, and target and measure advertisements effectively. Additionally, the Apple App Store guidelines require apps that support account creation to also allow users to delete their account within the app. This change has and may continue to impact our ability to retain users. As a result, our competitors may, and in some cases will, acquire and engage neighbors or generate advertising or other revenue at the expense of our efforts, which would negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, we may take actions in response to competitive threats, but we cannot assure you that these actions will be successful or that they will not negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance, and reliability of our platform compared to our competitors products; the size and composition of our neighbor base; the engagement of neighbors with our platform and competing products; first- and third-party data available to us relative to our competitors; our ability to attract and retain advertisers who use our free or paid advertisements services; the timing and market acceptance of developments and enhancements to our platform or our competitors products; our safety and security efforts and our ability to protect neighbor data and to provide neighbors with control over their data; our ability to distribute our platform to new and existing neighbors; our ability to effectively monetize our platform; the successful implementation of platform changes, such as the migration to our proprietary ad server and introduction of AI technologies into our platform, and our NEXT initiative; the frequency, size, format, quality, and relative prominence of the advertisements displayed by us or our competitors; 15 Table of Contents customer service and support efforts; marketing and selling efforts, including our ability to measure the effectiveness of our advertisements and to provide advertisers with a compelling return on their investments; our ability to establish and maintain publisher interest in integrating their content with our platform; changes mandated by legislation, regulatory authorities, or litigation, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers, designers, and product managers; our ability to cost-effectively manage and grow our operations; and our reputation and brand strength relative to those of our competitors. If we are not able to compete effectively, our neighbor base and level of neighbor engagement may decrease, we may become less attractive to advertisers and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business is dependent on our ability to maintain and scale our product offerings and technical infrastructure, and any significant disruption in the availability of our platform could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of neighbors and engagement, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain, and serve our neighbors and to scale our product offerings is dependent upon the reliable performance of our platform and our underlying technical infrastructure. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, interruptions in the availability or performance of our platform from time to time. Our systems may not be adequately designed or may not operate with the reliability and redundancy necessary to avoid performance delays or outages that could be harmful to our business. If our platform is unavailable when neighbors attempt to access it, or if it does not load as quickly as expected, neighbors may not use our platform as often in the future, or at all, and our ability to serve advertisements may be disrupted, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. As the amount and types of information shared on our platform continues to grow and evolve, as the usage patterns of our communities continues to evolve, and as our internal operational demands continue to grow, we will need an increasing amount of technical infrastructure, including network capacity and computing power, to continue to satisfy our needs. If we fail to continue to effectively scale and grow our technical infrastructure to accommodate these increased demands, neighbor engagement and revenue growth may be adversely impacted. Moreover, as we scale our platform and product offerings, including video and other platform features, that may place strain on our technical infrastructure, and we may also be unsuccessful in scaling our technical infrastructure to accommodate new product offerings and increased platform usage cost-effectively. In addition, our business may be subject to interruptions, delays, or failures resulting from earthquakes, fires, floods, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, terrorism, pandemics, geopolitical conflict (including the current wars in Ukraine and the Middle East), other physical security threats, cyber-attacks, or other catastrophic events. If such an event were to occur, neighbors may be subject to service disruptions or outages and we may not be able to recover our technical infrastructure and neighbor data in a timely manner to restart or provide our services, which may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the substantial amount of our employees are based in our headquarters located in San Francisco, California. If there is a catastrophic failure involving our systems or major disruptive event affecting our headquarters or the San Francisco area in general, we may be unable to operate our platform. A substantial portion of our network infrastructure is provided by third parties, including AWS. We also rely on third parties for other technology related services, including certain AI functions. Any disruption or failure in the services we receive from these providers could impact the availability of our platform and could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Any financial or other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and we exercise little control over these providers, which increases our reliance on and vulnerability to problems with the services they provide and increases in the costs of these services. Any of these developments may result in interruptions in the availability or performance of our platform, result in neighbors ceasing to use our platform, require unfavorable changes to our platform, delay the introduction of future products, or otherwise adversely affect our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents If we fail to scale our business effectively, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We have experienced growth in recent years and expect to continue to invest strategically across our organization to support measured growth, while also scaling back certain areas of our business in response to changing economic conditions. Although we have experienced rapid growth historically, we may not return to prior growth rates or sustain our growth rates, nor can we assure you that our investments to support our growth or to manage expenses by scaling back other areas of our business will be successful. The effective scaling of our business will require us to invest financial and operational resources and the continuous dedication of our management team. We may continue to expand our international operations into more countries in the future, which will place additional demands on our resources and operations. The growth and expansion of our business has placed, and continues to place, a significant strain on our management, operations, and financial and technical infrastructure. In the event of further growth of our business or in the number of our third-party relationships, our information technology systems or our internal