Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Results of Operations and Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additional information regarding our three business segments (Precision Bearing Components Group, Precision Engineered Products Group and Autocam Precision Components Group) is presented below. Precision Bearing Components Group Within our Precision Bearing Components Group, we manufacture and supply high precision bearing components, consisting of balls, cylindrical rollers, tapered rollers, spherical rollers and metal retainers, for leading bearing and CV-joint manufacturers on a global basis. We are a leading independent manufacturer of precision steel bearing balls and rollers for the North American, European and Asian markets. We offer one of the industrys most complete lines of commercially available bearing components. We emphasize application-specific engineered products that take advantage of competencies in product design and tight tolerance manufacturing processes. Our customers use our components in fully assembled ball and roller bearings and CV-joints, which serve a wide variety of end markets, including automotive, agricultural, construction, machinery, heavy truck, and rail. Precision Engineered Products Group Following the PEP Acquisition, we combined the operations of PEP with our Plastics and Rubber Components Segment. Within our Precision Engineered Products Group, we combine materials science expertise with advanced engineering and production capabilities to design and manufacture a broad range of high-precision metal and plastic components, assemblies, and finished devices for the medical, electrical, automotive and aerospace end markets. Autocam Precision Components Group Within our Autocam Precision Components Group, we manufacture highly engineered, difficult-to-manufacture precision metal components and subassemblies for the automotive, HVAC, fluid power and diesel engine end markets. Our entry into the precision metal components market began in 2006 with the acquisition of Whirlaway Corporation. We dramatically expanded the segment in 2014 with the acquisitions of Autocam and V-S. These acquisitions furthered our strategy to diversify our end markets and build upon our core manufacturing competency of high-precision metal machining. 3 Table of Contents Products Precision Bearing Components Group Precision Steel Balls . At our Precision Bearing Components Group facilities (with the exception of our Veenendaal plant), we manufacture and sell high quality, precision steel balls. Our steel balls are used primarily by manufacturers of anti-friction bearings and constant velocity joints where precise spherical, tolerance and surface finish accuracies are required. Steel Rollers . We manufacture tapered rollers at our Veenendaal, Erwin, and Konjic plants and cylindrical rollers at our Erwin plant. Rollers are an alternative rolling element used instead of balls in anti-friction bearings that typically have heavier loading or different speed requirements. Our roller products are used primarily for applications similar to those of our precision steel ball product line, plus certain non-bearing applications such as hydraulic pumps and motors. Tapered rollers are a component in tapered roller bearings that are used in a variety of applications including automotive gearbox applications, automotive wheel bearings and a wide variety of industrial applications. Most cylindrical rollers are made to specific customer requirements for diameter and length and are used in a variety of industrial applications. Metal Retainers. We manufacture and sell precision metal retainers for roller bearings used in a wide variety of industrial applications. Retainers are used to separate and space the rolling elements within a fully assembled bearing. We manufacture metal retainers at our Veenendaal plant. Precision Engineered Products Group Precision Solutions . We manufacture a variety of components, assemblies and instruments, such as surgical knives, bioresorbable implants, surgical staples, orthopedic system tools, laparoscopic devices, drug delivery devices and catheter components for the medical end market, electrical contacts, connectors, contact assemblies and precision stampings for the electrical control end market, precision components, assemblies and electrical contacts for the automotive end market, and a variety of engineered materials for the aerospace and defense end market, including optical grade plastics, thermally conductive plastics, and titanium, Inconel, magnesium and gold electroplating. At our Lubbock plant, we manufacture and sell precision plastic retainers for ball and roller bearings used in a wide variety of industrial applications. We also manufacture and sell a wide range of specialized plastic products including automotive under-the-hood components, electronic instrument cases and precision electronic connectors and lenses. Autocam Precision Components Group Precision Components . We sell a wide range of highly engineered, extremely close tolerance, precision-machined metal components and subassemblies primarily to the consumer transportation, industrial technology, HVAC, fluid power and diesel engine end markets. We have developed an expertise in manufacturing highly complex, system critical components for fuel systems, engines and transmissions, power steering systems and electromechanical motors. This expertise has been gained through investment in technical capabilities, processes and systems, and skilled program management and product launch capabilities. Research and Development and Product Engineering Our research and development and product engineering efforts focus on enhancing our existing products and developing patented products, particularly in the medical industry, that can be presented to and sold by our customers. Our Precision Engineered Products Group has developed a portfolio of patented medical products that we manufacture for customers and that are sold under their brand. Our Autocam Precision Products Group engineering team focuses on lowering the cost of manufacturing existing products and developing engineered solutions to improve our customers products. Our Precision Bearing Components Group operates two innovation centers, one in the Netherlands for rollers and one in Italy for balls, which focuses on improving the performance of the rolling element, operating life and friction generation and reducing manufacturing costs. Customers Our products are supplied primarily to manufacturers for use in a broad range of industrial applications, including automotive, electrical, agricultural, construction, machinery, heavy truck, rail, medical, aerospace and defense, HVAC, fluid power and diesel engines. Our top ten customers account for approximately 48% of our revenue. Sales to each of these top ten customers are made to multiple customer locations and divisions throughout the world. Only one of these customers, AB SKF (SKF), had sales levels that were over 10% of total net sales. Sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of SKF accounted for approximately 13% of net sales in 2016. In 2016, 63% of our products were sold to customers in North America, 21% to customers in Europe, 12% to customers in Asia and the remaining 4% to customers in South America. We sell our products to most of our largest customers under either sales contracts or agreed upon commercial terms. In general, we pass through material cost fluctuations when incurred to our customers in the form of changes in selling prices. We ordinarily ship our products directly to customers within 60 days, and in many cases, during the same calendar month of the date on which a sales order is placed. Accordingly, we generally have an insignificant amount of open (backlog) orders from customers at month end. 4 Table of Contents See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations for additional segment financial information. Sales and Marketing A primary emphasis of our marketing strategy is to expand key customer relationships by offering high quality, high-precision, application-specific customer solutions with the value of a single supply chain partner for a wide variety of products and components. Due to the technical nature of many of our products, our engineers and manufacturing management personnel also provide technical sales support functions, while internal sales employees handle customer orders and other general sales support activities. Each of our groups use a distinct direct sales force supported by senior segment management and engineering involvement. Our Precision Bearing Components Group marketing strategy focuses on our ability to provide consistent, high quality products that meet the most precise specifications of leading global brands. Our marketing strategy for the Precision Engineered Products Group and the Autocam Precision Components Group is to offer custom manufactured, high quality, precision products to markets with high value-added characteristics at competitive price levels. This strategy focuses on relationships with key customers that require the production of technically difficult parts and assemblies, enabling us to take advantage of our strengths in custom product development, equipment and tool design, component assembly and machining processes. The following table presents a breakdown of our net sales for fiscal years 2016, 2015 and 2014: 2016 2015 2014 Precision Bearing Components Group $ 248,534 $ 261,837 $ 278,026 Percentage of Total Sales 30 % 39 % 57 % Precision Engineered Products Group 258,816 77,183 33,351 Percentage of Total Sales 31 % 12 % 7 % Autocam Precision Components Group 326,138 328,260 177,224 Percentage of Total Sales 39 % 49 % 36 % Total $ 833,488 $ 667,280 $ 488,601 Percentage of Total Sales 100 % 100 % 100 % During 2015, following the PEP Acquisition and the divestiture of Delta Rubber, we combined the operations of PEP with our Plastics and Rubber Components Group, and renamed the segment as the Precision Engineered Products Group. The Precision Engineered Products Group includes the Plastic and Rubber Components Group as presented in our previous filings. Net sales for the fiscal years 2014 solely relate to our former Plastic and Rubber Components Segment. Employees As of December 31, 2016, we employed a total of 4,730 full-time employees and 569 full time equivalent temporary workers. Of our total employment, 17% are management/staff/government/statutory employees and 83% are production employees. The employees at the Pinerolo, Veenendaal, Autocam France and Brainin de Mexico plants are unionized. A small group of employees at Lacey Manufacturing Company are also unionized. We believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and the unions that represent them. 5 Table of Contents Competition Precision Bearing Components Group Our Precision Bearing Components Group operates in intensely competitive markets. Our domestic competitors include Hoover Precision Products, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Tsubaki Nakashima Co., LTD., and Amatsuji Steel Ball Manufacturing Company, Ltd. (Japan), a wholly owned division of NSK LTD. In addition, Jiangsu General Ball and Roller Co., LTD (China) (JGBR) has announced plans to open a manufacturing facility in the United States to begin production in early 2017. Our foreign competitors include Tsubaki Nakashima Co., LTD. (Japan) and JGBR. Additionally, we compete with bearing manufacturers in-house (captive) production, which represents the majority of total production. We believe that competition within the Precision Bearing Components Group is based principally on quality, price and the ability to consistently meet customer delivery requirements. Management believes that our competitive strengths are our precision manufacturing capabilities, our wide product assortment, our reputation for consistent quality and reliability, our global manufacturing footprint and the productivity of our workforce. Precision Engineered Products Group Our Precision Engineered Products Group also operates in intensely competitive markets. We must compete with numerous companies in each industry market segment. Many of these companies have substantially greater financial resources than we do and many currently offer competing products nationally and internationally. Our primary competitors in the plastic bearing retainer market are Nakanishi Manufacturing Corporation and Precimold, Inc. Domestically, National Plastics and Sales, Inc., Nypro, Inc., Thermotec, Inc., GW Plastics, Inc., C&J Industries, Inc., and Nyloncraft, Inc., are amongst the largest players in the precision plastic components markets. Our primary competitors in the medical device market are Tecomet, Inc., Lake Region Medical, Inc., and Vention Medical, Inc. Our primary competitors in the electrical market are Deringer-Ney, Inc., Doduco GmbH and Metalor Technologies International. Our primary competitors in the automotive and aerospace market are Interplex Industries, Inc. and Accu-Mold, LLC. We believe that competition within the plastic injection molding, plastic bearing retainer, precision plastic components, medical device, electrical, automotive and aerospace markets is based principally on quality, price, design capabilities and speed of responsiveness and delivery. Management believes that our competitive strengths are product development, tool design, fabrication, and tight tolerance molding processes. With these strengths, we have built our reputation in the marketplace as a quality producer of technically difficult products. Autocam Precision Components Group In the market in which our Autocam Precision Components Group operates, internal production of components by our customers can impact our business as the customers weigh the risk of outsourcing strategically critical components or producing in-house. Our primary outside competitors are Anton Hring KG, A. Berger Holding Gmbh & Co. KG, C&A Tool Engineering, Inc., American Turned Products, Inc., Camcraft, Inc., and A.B. Heller, Inc. We generally win new business on the basis of technical competence and our proven track record of successful product development. Raw Materials Precision Bearing Components Group The primary raw material used in our core ball and roller business of the Precision Bearing Components Group is 52100 Steel, which is high quality chromium steel. Our other steel requirements include metal strip, stainless steel, and type S2 rock bit steel. The Precision Bearing Components Group businesses purchase substantially all of their 52100 Steel requirements from suppliers in Europe and Japan, and all of their metal strip requirements from European suppliers and traders. We purchase steel on the basis of composition, quality, availability and price. For precision steel balls, the pricing arrangements with our suppliers are typically subject to adjustment every three to six months in North America and contractually adjusted on an annual basis within the European locations for the base steel price and quarterly for surcharge adjustments. If any of our current suppliers were unable to supply 52100 Steel to us, higher costs and/or production interruptions could occur as a result of obtaining 52100 Steel from alternate sources. Our operating results would be negatively affected in the event that North American or European governments impose any significant quotas, tariffs or other duties or restrictions on the import of such steel, if the U.S. dollar decreases in value relative to foreign currencies or if supplies available to us would significantly decrease. Precision Engineered Products Group The Precision Engineered Products Group uses a wide variety of metals in various forms, including precious metals like gold, silver, palladium and platinum. Through our diverse network of suppliers, we minimize supplier concentration risk and provide a stable supply of raw materials at competitive pricing. This group also procures resins and metal stampings from several domestic and foreign suppliers. 6 Table of Contents For the Precision Engineered Products Group, we base purchase decisions on quality, service and price. Generally, we do not enter into written supply contracts with our suppliers or commit to maintain minimum monthly purchases of materials. However, we carefully manage raw material price volatility, particularly with respect to precious metals, through the use of consignment agreements. In effect, we lease the precious metals for our own stock and buy the raw materials on the same day customer shipments are priced, thereby eliminating speculation. In addition, our products with precious metal content are priced with a margin on the raw material cost to further protect against raw material price volatility and to provide incremental profit. Autocam Precision Components Group The Autocam Precision Components Group produces products from a wide variety of metals in various forms from various sources located in the North America, Europe and Japan. Basic types include hot rolled steel, cold rolled steel (both carbon and alloy), stainless, extruded aluminum, die cast aluminum, gray and ductile iron castings, hot and cold forgings and mechanical tubing. Some material is purchased directly under contracts, some is consigned by the customer, and some is purchased directly from the steel mills. In each of our three segments, we have historically been affected by upward price pressure on steel principally due to general increases in global demand. In general, we pass through material cost fluctuations to our customers in the form of changes in selling price. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses Historically, we have not owned any U.S. or foreign patents, trademarks or licenses that are material to our business; however, in our Precision Engineered Products Group, we have six U.S. patents, four patent applications and trademarks for various trade names. Furthermore, we intend to develop patented products that can be presented to and sold by our customers. Additionally, we rely on certain data and processes, including trade secrets and know-how, and the success of our business depends, to some extent, on such information remaining confidential. Each executive officer is subject to a non-competition and confidentiality agreement that seeks to protect this information. Additionally, all employees are subject to company code of ethics policies that prohibit the disclosure of information critical to the operations of our business. Seasonal Nature of Business General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months, medical device sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter and sales to OEMs are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not subject to material seasonality. Environmental Compliance Our operations and products are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulatory requirements both domestically and abroad relating to pollution control and protection of the environment. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, discharges to air or water, the generation, storage, handling, and use of automotive hazardous materials and the handling and disposal of hazardous waste generated at our facilities. Under such laws and regulations, we are required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for some of our operations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Under some environmental laws and regulations, we could also be held responsible for all the costs relating to any contamination at our past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. We maintain a compliance program to assist in preventing and, if necessary, correcting environmental problems. In the Precision Bearing Components Group, the Kysucke plant, the Veenendaal plant, the Pinerolo plant and Kunshan plant are ISO 14000 or 14001 certified and all received the EPD (Environmental Product Declaration), except for the Veenendaal plants stamped metal parts business. Based on information compiled to date, management believes that our current operations are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have assessed conditional asset retirement obligations and have found them to be immaterial to the consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure that currently unknown matters, new laws and regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws and regulations will not materially affect our business or operations in the future. More specifically, although we believe that we dispose of waste in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot be certain that we will not incur significant liabilities in the future in connection with the clean-up of waste disposal sites. FDA Compliance As a contract manufacturer of medical devices, certain of our subsidiaries, including PEP, are required to register as such with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Each of our facilities that manufacture finished medical devices is registered with the FDA. To maintain our registration, we deploy a robust quality management system across all of our manufacturing facilities. 7 Table of Contents With respect to medical products that we are specifically developing to sell to our customers, before these devices can be marketed, we will seek to obtain a marketing clearance from the FDA under Section 510(k) of the United States Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The FDA typically grants a 510(k) clearance if the applicant can establish that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device. Clearance under Section 510(k) typically takes about three months from the date of submission. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers are: Name Age Position Richard D. Holder 54 Chief Executive Officer and President J. Robert Atkinson 36 Vice President, Corporate Treasurer and Manager of Investor Relations Thomas C. Burwell, Jr. 48 Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer Matthew S. Heiter 56 Senior Vice President and General Counsel L. Jeffery Manzagol 61 Senior Vice President General Manager of the Precision Bearing Components Group John A. Manzi 52 Senior Vice President General Manager, Precision Engineered Products Group Warren Veltman 55 Senior Vice President General Manager Autocam Precision Components Group James R. Widders 60 Senior Vice President Integration and Corporate Transformation Set forth below is certain additional information with respect to each of our executive officers. Richard D. Holder joined us as President and Chief Executive Officer in June 2013. Prior to joining us, Mr. Holder served as President of Eaton Electrical Components Group of Eaton Corporations Electrical Sector from 2010 to 2013, Executive Vice President of the Eaton Business Systems from 2007 to 2010, Vice President and General Manager of the Power Distribution and Assemblies Division from 2004 to 2006 and Vice President Supply Chain and Operational Excellence from 2001 to 2004. Prior to joining Eaton, Mr. Holder served as Director of Aircraft & Technical Purchasing for US Airways from 1999 to 2001. Prior to this position, Mr. Holder held a variety of leadership positions at Allied Signal Corporation, an aerospace, automotive and engineering company, and Parker Hannifin Corporation, a global motion and control technology manufacturer. J. Robert Atkinson joined us as Vice President, Corporate Treasurer and Manager of Investor Relations in 2014. Prior to joining us, Mr. Atkinson was with Regions Bank, one of the nations largest full-service providers of consumer and commercial banking, wealth management, mortgage, and insurance products and services. He most recently served as vice president and commercial relationship manager in Regions Corporate Bank Group, where he was responsible for marquee corporate relationships, developing treasury management solutions and negotiating terms and conditions for new and renewal credit facilities. Prior to that position, he served as Vice President of business services. Mr. Atkinson also served as a project coordinator for the Electrical Group of Eaton Corporation. Mr. Atkinson is a member of the Association of Financial Professions and earned his certified treasury professional designation. Thomas C. Burwell, Jr. joined us as Corporate Controller in September 2005. He was promoted to Vice President Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate Controller in 2011, and to Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in November 2016. Prior to joining NN, Mr. Burwell held various positions at Coats, PLC from 1997 to 2005 ultimately becoming the Vice President of Finance for the U.S. Industrial Division. From 1992 to 1997, Mr. Burwell held various positions at the international accounting firm BDO Seidman, LLP. Mr. Burwell is a Certified Public Accountant. Matthew S. Heiter joined us as Senior Vice President and General Counsel in July 2015. Prior to joining us, Mr. Heiter was a shareholder in the law firm of Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell and Berkowitz, PC from May 1996 to December 1999 and from July 2002 to July 2015, where he served as chairman of the firms Securities and Corporate Governance Practice Group. From January 2000 to July 2002, Mr. Heiter served as the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Internet Pictures Corporation, a publicly traded internet technology company. L. Jeffery Manzagol joined us as Senior Vice PresidentGeneral Manager of the Precision Bearing Components Group in October 2014. Manzagol stepped into his role with more than 36 years of metal bearings and high precision manufacturing experience. He most recently served as President of the Bearings Division at Kaydon Corporation. Previously, Manzagol held various leadership positions at SKF Group, including President and General Manager at the Armada, Michigan facility. John Manzi joined us as Senior Vice PresidentGeneral Manager of Precision Engineered Products Group in October 2015 in connection with the completion of the PEP Acquisition. Previously, Mr. Manzi served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of PEP. Mr. Manzi was instrumental in leading PEPs development and, together with PEPs management team, has successfully enhanced PEPs end market reach, expanded its product breadth and executed on key strategic acquisitions. Mr. Manzi has 20 years of experience with PEP. Prior to joining PEPs management team, Mr. Manzi held various positions including President of PEPs Attleboro operations, Vice President of Operations, and Engineering Manager. 8 Table of Contents Warren Veltman joined us as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Autocam Precision Components Group in September 2014. Veltman served as Chief Financial Officer of Autocam Corporation from 1990 and Secretary and Treasurer since 1991. Prior to Mr. Veltmans service at Autocam, Mr. Veltman was an Audit Manager with Deloitte & Touche LLP. James R. Widders was appointed us as Senior Vice President of Integration and Corporate Transformation in September 2014. Prior to that appointment, Mr. Widders was Vice President and General Manager of our then-named Metal Bearing Components Group beginning in December 2010. Mr. Widders had 13 years of service at Whirlaway prior to its acquisition by NN. Prior to joining us, he served as Vice President and General Manager at Technifab, Inc. a manufacturer of molded foam components for the Aerospace industry and in various management positions with GE Superabrasives, a division of General Electric. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are risk factors that affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, some of which are beyond our control. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. Risks Related to Our Operations A recession impacting our end markets or the geographic regions in which we or our customers operate could have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our operations and implement our growth strategy. During the three month period ended December 31, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2009, we experienced a sudden and significant reduction in customer orders driven by reductions in automotive and industrial end market demand across all our businesses. Additionally, during the latter part of 2011 and all of 2012, we experienced the impacts of a European recession in our European businesses. Prior to this time, we had never been affected by a recession that had impacted both of our key geographic markets of the U.S. and Europe simultaneously. If we are impacted by a global recession in the future, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows and could lead to additional restructuring and/or impairment charges being incurred and our ability to implement our growth strategy. The cyclical demand for our products and the seasonality impact on our production could adversely affect our revenues. The end markets for fully assembled bearings and industrial and automotive components are cyclical and tend to decline in response to overall declines in industrial and automotive production. As a result, the market for the bearing components and precision metal and industrial plastic products we sell is also cyclical and impacted by overall levels of industrial and automotive production. Our sales have been, and can be in the future, negatively affected by adverse conditions in the industrial and/or automotive production sectors of the economy or by adverse global or national economic conditions generally. Similarly, any inflation in oil prices and any resulting increase in gasoline prices could have a negative impact on demand for our products as a result of consumer and corporate spending reductions. In addition, seasonality may have a negative impact on our production. Due to the typical slower summer manufacturing season in Europe, we expect that revenues in the third fiscal quarter of each year will be lower than in the other quarters of the year. We depend on a very limited number of sources for our primary raw material and are subject to risks of shortages and price fluctuation. The steel that we use to manufacture our precision bearing components is of an extremely high quality and is available from only a limited number of producers on a global basis. Due to quality constraints in the U.S. steel industry, we obtain substantially all of the steel used in our U.S. operations of our Precision Bearing Components Group from non-U.S. suppliers. In addition, we obtain most of the steel used in our European operations from a single European source. If we had to obtain steel from sources other than our current suppliers, we could face higher prices and automotive costs, increased duties or taxes and shortages of steel. Problems in obtaining steel, particularly 52100 chrome steel in the quantities that we require, on commercially reasonable terms, could increase our costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 9 Table of Contents We depend heavily on a relatively limited number of customers, and the loss of any major customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of SKF, one of the largest bearing manufacturers in the world, accounted for approximately 13% of consolidated net sales in 2016. No other customers accounted for more than 10% of sales. During 2016, sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 48% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and would lower our operating profit margin and cash flows from operations. Work stoppages or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially affect our earnings. A work stoppage at one or more of our facilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Also, if one or more of our customers were to experience a work stoppage, that customer would likely halt or limit purchases of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We operate in and sell products to customers outside the U.S. and are subject to several risks related to doing business internationally. Because we obtain a majority of our raw materials from overseas suppliers, actively participate in overseas manufacturing operations and sell to a large number of international customers, we face risks associated with the following: changes in tariff regulations, which may make our products more costly to export or import; changes in monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies and similar organizations; Recessions or marked declines specific to a particular country or region; the potential imposition of trade restrictions or prohibitions; a U.S. federal tax code that discourages the repatriation of funds to the U.S.; the potential imposition of import or other duties or taxes; difficulties establishing and maintaining relationships with local original equipment manufacturers, distributors and dealers; difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations; and unstable governments or legal systems in countries in which our suppliers, manufacturing operations, and customers are located. These and other risks may also increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, thereby reducing the demand for our products in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, as well as export controls and economic sanction laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal