Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. The discussion should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors or in other parts of this Quarterly Report. Overview At Nextdoor, our purpose is to cultivate a kinder world where everyone has a neighborhood they can rely on. Neighbors around the world turn to Nextdoor to receive trusted information, give and get help, get things done, and build real world connections with those nearby neighbors, businesses, and public services. By fostering these connections, both online and in the real world, Nextdoor builds stronger, more vibrant, and more resilient neighborhoods. As of March 31, 2022, Nextdoor was in more than 290,000 neighborhoods around the world and in nearly 1 in 3 households in the United States. Key business metrics for the three months ended March 31, 2022 are as follows: Weekly Active Users ( WAUs ) were 36.7 million, an increase of 33% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Average revenue per weekly active user ( ARPU ) was $1.39, an increase of 12% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Financial Results as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2022 are as follows: Revenue was $51.0 million, an increase of 48% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Total costs and expenses were $84.2 million, an increase of 42% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Net loss increased 31% to $(32.9) million, compared to $(25.1) million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Adjusted EBITDA loss increased 18% to $(19.9) million, compared to $(16.8) million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $711.9 million. See Non-GAAP Financial Measure below for more information and for a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), to Adjusted EBITDA. Recent Developments Closing of Transactions On November 5, 2021, we consummated the Business Combination and the PIPE Investment (as described in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report) (collectively, the Reverse Recapitalization ). Reported results from operations included herein prior to the Reverse Recapitalization are those of Legacy Nextdoor. Each share of Legacy Nextdoor common stock that was issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Closing Date, after giving effect to the conversion of all issued and outstanding shares of Legacy Nextdoor preferred stock to Legacy Nextdoor common stock, was canceled and converted into a number of shares of Nextdoor Class B common stock equal to the exchange ratio of 3.1057 as calculated in accordance with the Merger Agreement ( Exchange Ratio ) multiplied by the number of shares of Legacy Nextdoor common stock. The Merger was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization in accordance with GAAP. Under this method of accounting, KVSB was treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. Accordingly, the financial statements of Nextdoor represent the continuation of the financial statements of Legacy Nextdoor, with the Merger reflected as the equivalent of Nextdoor issuing common stock for the net assets of KVSB, accompanied by a recapitalization. The net assets of KVSB were recognized as of the Closing at historical cost, with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. Operations prior to the Merger are those of Legacy Nextdoor and Legacy Nextdoors operations are the only ongoing operations of Nextdoor. 20 Key Business Metrics In addition to the measures presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the following key business metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, develop financial forecasts, and make strategic decisions: Weekly Active Users (WAUs) We define a WAU as a Nextdoor user who opens our application, logs on to our website, or engages with an email with monetizable content at least once during a defined 7-day period. 1 We calculate average WAUs for a particular period by calculating the count of unique users, on a rolling basis for the past seven days, for each day of that period, and dividing that sum by the number of days in that period. We assess the health of our business by measuring WAUs because we believe that weekly usage best captures the cadence at which we expect a healthy user base to engage with, and derive the most utility from our platform, and by extension their neighborhood. We also present WAUs by geography because we are more advanced in engagement and monetization in the United States than internationally. In September 2021, Apple released changes to the Apple email client available on its operating systems, including iOS 15 and iPadOS 15, which limit our ability to measure user engagement with emails containing monetizable content for users that use the Apple email client. The introduction of these changes impacts our ability to accurately calculate a portion of WAUs for periods following the adoption of the updated operating systems. Following this introduction, we use estimates for these user engagement numbers based on historical data sets, as well as data from users who engage with Nextdoors monetizable content on email clients other than Apple email. Our WAU for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was 36.7 million and 27.6 million, respectively, which represents 33% growth period over period. As illustrated below, our international WAUs have generally grown at a faster rate than our U.S. WAUs, and we expect this international growth to continue to outpace U.S. growth in the near term. Quarterly Average Weekly Active Users (in millions) 1 Emails with monetizable content are emails with a primary purpose to regularly inform users about topics that are relevant to them, and are therefore appropriate for delivering ads to users. These emails comprise almost all of the emails that we send our users and include, but are not limited to, new, trending and top posts, weekly and anytime digests, welcome emails and urgent and emergency alerts. We earn revenue from delivery of ad impressions in emails with monetizable content on either a cost per thousand ( CPM ) basis or on a cost per click ( CPC ) basis or, with respect to neighborhood sponsorships and local deals, on a fixed-fee basis. While we have the ability to serve ads in all emails with monetizable content, we currently only do so on a portion of the total. 21 Average Revenue per Weekly Active User (ARPU) We generate revenue primarily from advertising. We measure monetization of our platform through our ARPU metric. We define ARPU as our total revenue in that geography during a period divided by the average of the number of WAUs in that geography during the same period. We present ARPU on a U.S. and international basis because we are more advanced in our monetization in the United States than internationally. U.S. ARPU is higher primarily due to our decision to focus our earliest monetization efforts there, the size and maturity of our audience in the United States, as well the size of the U.S. advertising market. For purposes of calculating ARPU, revenue by user geography is apportioned to each region based on a determination of the location of the account where the revenue-generating activities occur. Our ARPU for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $1.39 and $1.25, respectively. Our ARPU reflects the seasonality of our advertising revenue, with the fourth quarter typically being the strongest quarter of each year. 22 Quarterly ARPU Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate substantially all of our revenue from the delivery of advertisements on our platform which includes the delivery of advertising impressions sold on a CPM basis and CPC basis, as well as neighborhood sponsorships and local deals which are sold on a fixed-fee basis. The majority of our revenue is generated in the United States. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the delivery of our revenue generating activities, including the third-party cost of hosting our platform and allocated personnel-related costs, which include salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in development of our revenue generating products. Cost of revenue also includes third-party costs associated with delivering and supporting our advertising products and credit card transaction fees related to processing customer transactions. 23 We expect cost of revenue will increase on an absolute dollar basis as neighbor activity on our platform increases. While we expect to realize scale benefits over time, our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue may vary from period-to-period and is expected to increase modestly over the near and medium term as we invest in new products and features to further increase platform engagement. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for our employees engaged in research and development, as well as costs for consultants, contractors and third-party software. In addition, allocated overhead costs, such as facilities, information technology, and depreciation are included in research and development expenses. We expect research and development expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis due to investments that we are making in our platform. We expect that research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue will vary from period-to-period over the short term and decrease over the long term. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related and other costs which include salaries, commissions, benefits, and stock-based compensation for employees engaged in sales and marketing activities as well as other costs including third-party consulting, public relations, allocated overhead costs, and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Sales and marketing expenses also include brand and performance marketing for both user and small and mid-sized customer acquisition, and neighbor services, which includes personnel-related costs for our neighbor support team, our outsourced neighbor support function, and verification costs. Performance marketing costs related to user acquisition largely consist of the distribution of mailed invitations and, to a lesser extent, digital advertising. Performance marketing costs related to small and mid-sized customer acquisition largely consists of digital advertising and, to a lesser extent, direct mail campaigns. Fluctuations in our performance marketing expenses are driven by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: our target geographies, whether we are acquiring users or businesses, assessment of return on investment of marketing spend, strategic priorities, and seasonal factors. We expect sales and marketing expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis due to continued investment in sales activities, increased investment in marketing to acquire users, small and mid-sized customers, and further investment in international expansion. We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue will vary from period-to-period over the short term and decrease over the long term. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation for certain executives, finance, legal, information technology, human resources, and other administrative employees. In addition, general and administrative expenses include fees and costs for professional services, including consulting, third-party legal and accounting services, and allocated overhead costs. We expect general and administrative expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future to support our growth as well as due to additional costs associated with legal, accounting, compliance, investor relations, and other costs as a result of operating as a public company. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue will vary from period-to-period over the short term and decrease over the long term. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of unrealized gains and losses from the re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies, and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 24 Results of Operations The results of operations presented below should be reviewed in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Revenue $ 51,000 $ 34,387 Costs and expenses (1) : Cost of revenue 9,055 6,337 Research and development 28,960 20,820 Sales and marketing 31,061 22,894 General and administrative 15,150 9,329 Total costs and expenses 84,226 59,380 Loss from operations (33,226) (24,993) Interest income 491 40 Other expense, net (185) (148) Loss before income taxes (32,920) (25,101) Provision for income taxes 28 39 Net loss $ (32,948) $ (25,140) __________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 455 $ 264 Research and development 6,635 3,394 Sales and marketing 1,996 1,277 General and administrative 3,058 2,277 Total $ 12,144 $ 7,212 The following table sets forth the components of our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (as a percentage of total revenue) 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue 18 18 Research and development 57 61 Sales and marketing 61 67 General and administrative 30 27 Total costs and expenses 165 173 Loss from operations (65) (73) Interest income 1 Other expense, net Loss before income taxes (65) (73) Provision for income taxes Net loss (65) % (73) % Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. 25 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ % Revenue $ 51,000 $ 34,387 $ 16,613 48 % Revenue increased by $16.6 million, or 48%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to increased advertiser demand across our product offerings, our growing sales team, and increased user engagement as measured by a 33% increase in Q1 WAUs. ARPU increased 12% primarily due to a 35% increase in the number of impressions delivered, which outpaced WAU growth during the period, and a 15% increase in the price per delivered impression. Cost of revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ % Cost of revenue $ 9,055 $ 6,337 $ 2,718 43 % Cost of revenue increased by $2.7 million, or 43%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to $1.5 million higher third-party hosting costs due to increased user growth and engagement, a $0.5 million increase in allocated personnel-related costs, and a $0.3 million increase in third-party costs associated with delivering and supporting our advertising products. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ % Research and development $ 28,960 $ 20,820 $ 8,140 39 % Research and development expenses increased by $8.1 million, or 39%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to a $6.3 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily driven by an increase in headcount, a $0.7 million increase in third-party software costs, and a $0.6 million increase in allocated overhead costs reflecting an increase in headcount. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ % Personnel-related and other $ 17,344 $ 12,616 $ 4,728 37 % Brand and performance marketing 10,770 7,148 3,622 51 % Neighbor services 2,947 3,130 (183) (6) % Total sales and marketing $ 31,061 $ 22,894 $ 8,167 36 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $8.2 million, or 36%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to a $4.7 million increase in personnel-related and other costs, which was driven by an increase in headcount, a $2.3 million increase in performance marketing costs to attract small and mid-sized customers, and a $1.2 million increase in performance marketing costs for user acquisition. General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ % General and administrative $ 15,150 $ 9,329 $ 5,821 62 % 26 General and administrative expenses increased by $5.8 million, or 62%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to a $2.0 million increase in personnel-related costs which was driven by an increase in headcount, a $1.7 million increase in professional fees primarily related to operating as a public company, and a $1.5 million increase in insurance expenses. Interest income Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) (NM = Not Meaningful) 2022 2021 $ % Interest income $ 491 $ 40 $ 451 NM Interest income increased by $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in marketable securities and a slight improvement in interest rates. Other expense, net Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except percentages) 2022 2021 $ % Other expense, net $ (185) $ (148) $ (37) 25 % Other expense, net decreased by $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to the periodic re-measurement of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-functional currencies. Provision for income taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ % Provision for income taxes $ 28 $ 39 $ (11) (28) % Provision for income taxes decreased by less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to foreign income tax expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have generated negative cash flows from operations and have primarily financed our operations from net proceeds received from the sale of equity securities, proceeds from the Reverse Recapitalization, and payments received from our customers. We currently have no debt outstanding. We have generated losses from our operations, as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $513.3 million as of March 31, 2022. We incurred operating losses and cash outflows from operations by supporting the growth of our business. We expect these losses and operating cash outflows to continue for the foreseeable future. We also expect to incur significant research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses over the next several years in connection with the continued development and expansion of our business. As of March 31, 2022, we had $711.9 million in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We anticipate satisfying our short term cash requirements, including meeting our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, with our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. In the long term, we may satisfy our cash requirements with cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities on hand or with proceeds from a future equity or debt financing. Our ability to support our requirements and plans for cash, including working capital and capital expenditure requirements, will depend on many factors, including the rate of our revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending on research and development efforts and other business initiatives, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings and features, and the continuing market adoption of our platform, and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing. To the extent existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are insufficient to fund our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, or should we require additional cash for other purposes, we may attempt to raise additional capital through 27 the sale of equity or debt securities. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to the rights of our Class A and Class B common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could also be unfavorable to our equity investors. There can be no assurances that we will be able to raise additional capital on terms we deem acceptable, or at all. The inability to raise additional capital as and when required would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our results of operations, financial condition, and ability to achieve our business objectives. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any commitments or obligations, including contingent obligations, arising from arrangements with unconsolidated entities or persons that have or are reasonably likely to have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements, or capital resources. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,513) $ (8,750) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (311,540) $ 8,956 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 3,136 $ 4,928 Operating activities Cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $5.5 million which resulted from a net loss of $(32.9) million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $12.7 million and net cash inflows of $14.8 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $12.1 million of stock-based compensation expense and $1.3 million of depreciation and amortization expense. The net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to a $7.8 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $5.6 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and a $4.5 million decrease in prepaid expenses and other current assets. These amounts were partially offset by a $3.1 million decrease in accounts payable. Cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $8.8 million which resulted from a net loss of $(25.1) million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $8.3 million and net cash inflows of $8.1 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $7.2 million of stock-based compensation expense and $1.1 million of depreciation and amortization expense. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of a $5.1 million decrease in accounts receivable, a $1.6 million decrease in operating lease right-of-use assets due to normal amortization, a $1.5 million increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, and a $0.3 million increase in accounts payable. These amounts were partially offset by a $0.9 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to lease payments. Investing activities Cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $311.5 million, which consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $318.2 million and the purchase of property and equipment of $0.6 million. This was offset by proceeds from maturities of marketable securities of $7.3 million. Cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $9.0 million, which consisted of maturities of marketable securities of $15.2 million. This was offset by the purchases of marketable securities of $4.4 million and the purchase of property and equipment of $1.9 million related to our San Francisco headquarters. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $3.1 million, which included $4.1 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options, net of repurchases, offset by tax withholdings on release of restricted stock units of $0.7 million, and the payment of deferred transaction costs of $0.3 million. Cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $4.9 million, which reflected proceeds from the exercise of stock options, net of repurchases. 28 Non-GAAP Financial Measure Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents our net loss adjusted for depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, net interest income, provision for income taxes, and acquisition-related costs. We use Adjusted EBITDA in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our Board of Directors concerning our financial performance. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is also helpful to investors, analysts, and other interested parties because it can assist in providing a more consistent and comparable overview of our operations across our historical financial periods. Adjusted EBITDA has limitations as an analytical tool, however, and you should not consider it in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Because of these limitations, you should consider Adjusted EBITDA alongside other financial performance measures, including net loss and our other GAAP results. In evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, you should be aware that in the future we may incur expenses that are the same as or similar to some of the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed to imply that our future results will be unaffected by the types of items excluded from the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is not presented in accordance with GAAP and the use of this term varies from others in our industry. The following is a reconciliation of net loss, the most comparable GAAP measure, to Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Net loss $ (32,948) $ (25,140) Depreciation and amortization 1,330 1,083 Stock-based compensation 12,144 7,212 Interest income (491) (40) Provision for income taxes 28 39 Adjusted EBITDA $ (19,937) $ (16,846) Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Preparing condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies requiring estimates, assumptions, and judgments as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act, and have elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We expect to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (a) are no longer an emerging growth company or (b) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided for in the JOBS Act. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. In addition, we intend to rely on the other exemptions and reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we are not required to, among other things: (a) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (b) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and (c) disclose certain executive compensation-related items such as the comparison of the Chief Executive Officers compensation to median employee compensation. 29 We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (a) the last day of our first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the IPO, (b) the last date of the fiscal year in which our total annual gross revenue is at least $1.1 billion, (c) the last date of the fiscal year in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC, which would occur if at least $700.0 million of our outstanding securities were held by non-affiliates as of the last business day of the second fiscal quarter of such year or (d) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.