Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measure for the definitions of the following terms used in this Annual Report: WAU, ARPU, and Adjusted EBITDA. 1 Table of Contents SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. All statements contained in this Annual Report, other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding our or our management teams expectations, hopes, beliefs, intentions, strategies, future operating results and financial position, potential growth or growth prospects, are forward-looking statements. Words such as believes, may, will, estimates, potential, continues, anticipates, intends, expects, could, would, projects, plans, targets, and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report may include, for example, statements about: our anticipated growth, including our ability to scale new neighbor growth, our ability to grow engagement by our existing neighbor base and our ability to increase monetization of our platform; our ability to scale our business and monetization efforts; the political, economic, and macroeconomic climate, whether in the advertising industry in general, or among specific types of advertisers or within particular geographies, including but not limited to the impacts related to actual or perceived instability in the global banking system, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, a potential recession, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget and debt ceiling and a potential temporary federal government shutdown related thereto, inflation, and changing interest rates; our ability to expand our business operations abroad by opening new and expanding within existing neighborhoods outside of the United States; our ability to respond to general economic conditions; our ability to invest in, and the ultimate success of, technologies aimed at enhancing our business solutions and delivering additional value to customers on our platform; our ability to scale our business effectively; our ability to achieve and maintain profitability in the future; our ability to access sources of capital to finance operations and growth; the success of strategic relationships with third parties; our ability to maintain the listing of our Class A common stock on the New York Stock Exchange; changes in applicable laws or regulations, both within and outside of the United States; the impact of the regulatory environment and complexities with compliance related to such environment; the inability to develop and maintain effective internal controls; the impact on our business as a result of interruptions, delays, or failures resulting from earthquakes, fires, floods, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, terrorism, pandemics, geopolitical conflict (including the war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war), other physical security threats, cyber-attacks, or other catastrophic events; our ability to raise financing in the future; our success in retaining or recruiting, or changes required in, our officers, key employees or directors; our financial performance; and other factors detailed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report. 2 Table of Contents We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections as of the date of this filing about future events and trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this Annual Report and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) that disclose risks and uncertainties that may affect our business. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for us to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the future events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, performance, or achievements. In addition, the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are made as of the date of this filing, and we do not undertake, and expressly disclaim any duty, to update such statements for any reason after the date of this Annual Report or to conform statements to actual results or revised expectations, except as required by law. You should read this Annual Report and the documents that we reference herein and have filed with the SEC as exhibits to this Annual Report with the understanding that our actual future results, performance, and events and circumstances may be materially different from what we expect. As used in this Annual Report, the terms Nextdoor, we, us, and our mean Nextdoor Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. 3 Table of Contents RISK FACTOR SUMMARY Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors in this Annual Report. You should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties when investing in our Class A common stock. Some of the principal risks and uncertainties include the following: We have a limited operating history at the current scale of our business and are still scaling up our monetization efforts, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and there is no assurance we will be able to scale our business for future growth. Adverse global economic and financial conditions could harm our business and financial condition. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. If advertisers reduce or eliminate their spending with us, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Our business is highly competitive. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to maintain and scale our product offerings and technical infrastructure, and any significant disruption in the availability of our platform could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of neighbors and engagement, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to scale our business effectively, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. If our efforts to build strong brand identity and reputation are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain neighbors, and our business, operating results, and financial condition will be adversely affected. We plan to continue expanding our international operations where we have limited operating experience and may be subject to increased business, regulatory, and economic risks that could seriously harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we need additional capital in the future, it may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. Our business depends largely on our ability to attract, retain and assimilate talented employees, including senior management. If we lose the services of or fail to successfully assimilate highly skilled personnel, key employees or members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy. We are dependent on third-party software and service providers, including the Google Ad Manager (GAM) platform, for management and delivery of advertisements on the Nextdoor platform. Any failure or interruption experienced by such third-parties could result in the inability of certain businesses to advertise on our platform, and adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. We rely on third-party software and service providers, including Amazon Web Services (AWS), to provide systems, storage and services for our platform. Any failure or interruption experienced by such third parties could result in the inability of neighbors and advertisers to access or utilize our platform, and adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Technologies have been developed that can block the display of advertisements on the Nextdoor platform, which could adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Security breaches, including improper access to or disclosure of our data or our neighbors data, or other hacking and phishing attacks on our or third-party systems, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Distribution and marketing of, and access to, our platform depends, in significant part, on a variety of third-party publishers and platforms (including mobile app stores, third-party payment providers, computer systems, and other communication systems and service providers). If these third parties limit, prohibit or otherwise interfere with or change the terms of the distribution, use or marketing of our platform in any material way, it could materially adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Certain of our market opportunities and key metric estimates could prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. 4 Table of Contents We have a history of net losses and may experience net losses in the future and we cannot assure you that we will achieve or sustain profitability. If we cannot achieve and sustain profitability, our business, financial condition, and operating results will be adversely affected. We may have greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could harm our business, revenue and financial results. We cannot guarantee that our Share Repurchase Program will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Share repurchases could also increase the volatility of the trading price of our stock and diminish our cash reserves. We may be liable as a result of content or information that is published or made available on our platform. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws, regulations, and industry standards, many of which are subject to change and uncertain interpretations, which uncertainty could harm our business, operating results, and financial conditions. We could be involved in legal disputes that are expensive and time consuming, and, if resolved adversely, could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Failure to maintain effective systems of internal controls and disclosure controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, the value of our brands and other intangible assets may be diminished, and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Third parties may claim that our platform infringes their intellectual property rights and this may create liability for us or otherwise adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our use of open source software could subject us to possible litigation or could prevent us from offering products that include open source software or require us to obtain licenses on unfavorable terms. We license technology from third parties, and our inability to maintain those licenses could harm our business. The price of our Class A common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The dual class structure of our common stock may adversely affect the trading market for our Class A common stock. The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting power with our management and other existing stockholders, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control. We do not intend to pay cash dividends for the foreseeable future. 5 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Overview At Nextdoor, our purpose is to cultivate a kinder world where everyone has a neighborhood they can rely on. Neighbors around the world turn to Nextdoor to receive trusted information, give and get help, get things done, and build real world connections with those nearby neighbors, businesses, and public services. By fostering these connections, both online and in the real world, Nextdoor builds stronger, more vibrant, and more resilient neighborhoods. As of December 31, 2023, Nextdoor was in more than 325,000 neighborhoods around the world and in 1 in 3 households in the United States. As of the end of the fourth quarter of 2023, Nextdoor had 88 million global Verified Neighbors.1 Our Platform The Nextdoor platform enables neighbors and organizations to build an engaged community of trusted neighbors, businesses and public services that can be depended on to exchange valuable information, goods, and services. Neighbors use Nextdoor to engage with and stay up to date on the communities that matter to them. They can find posts, photos, and discussions in the Feed, discover nearby neighbors, Groups, businesses, events, and items through a nativized maps surface in the Discover tab, and search for specific content and organizations through our Search feature. Nextdoor is a high-utility platform that connects neighbors with organizations and other local resources. Neighbors can discover and interact with local businesses, leave recommendations, and follow their Faves on the platform. Neighbors can utilize a truly local marketplace, For Sale & Free, to buy, sell, or give away items, and offer services such as dog walking. In addition, Nextdoor is where neighbors can receive critical, real-time information from trusted officials. Public agencies, including government entities and service providers, turn to Nextdoor to directly, quickly, and easily reach neighbors in their community with relevant local information and alerts. Our unique local data set includes event information, safety reports, recommendations, reviews, and discussions, as well as demographic data, interests, and behaviors of local residents. This detailed data contribute to the formation of the unique local knowledge graph that Nextdoor owns. Businesses on Nextdoor can use our real-time local data to devise advertising strategies and ensure their messages reach the most relevant and receptive audience in their immediate locality. Other artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) applications allow us to improve notifications, drive positive interactions, optimize ad delivery, drive growth of comments and replies, and analyze data. Our Advertising Solutions Nextdoor offers advertising solutions designed to generate tangible value for businesses seeking to expand their reach and drive sales with unique local context that allows advertisers of all sizes to reach the right neighbor, at the right time, with the right message. Our platform enables advertisers to achieve measurable outcomes that help advertisers build brand awareness, drive consideration and engagement, and generate sales. Ads can be leveraged on multiple surfaces on and off the platform, including Feed, Search, For Sale & Free, Right Hand Rail, and email. We are continually improving and building upon our library of ad formats, including sponsored posts and lead generation, which feature combinations of text (static or dynamic), images (including static and animated), and URL links, and the ways in which advertisers can purchase and deliver ads across our platform. Ad Auction Ads on the Nextdoor platform primarily compete via an auction-based system. Our auction system selects the best ad for each available ad impression based on the likelihood of a desired action occurring and how much that action is worth to advertisers. The likelihood of the action occurring depends on a variety of factors, such as ad relevance and creative quality. Measurement & Targeting 1 Verified Neighbors are individuals who have joined Nextdoor and completed the verification process for their account. 6 Table of Contents Delivering and demonstrating value for our advertisers is a key focus for Nextdoor. We offer a variety of measurement solutions, including a Conversion API, that are mapped to advertisers goals and objectives and validate Nextdoors performance. Nextdoor offers both brand safety controls as well as brand safety measurement via independent third-party partners. Utilizing our neighborhood graph, advertisers can effectively target and reach multiple high value audiences, such as homeowners, parents, and recent movers. Nextdoors neighborhood graph is built off high quality signals shared directly by our neighbors and partners. These signals are integrated using proprietary machine learning models that undergo continuous refinement and optimization to ensure scalability and accuracy. Go-to-Market Approach Nextdoor offers diverse marketing solutions for advertisers depending on size and goals. Our go-to-market approach combines the utilization of our self-service ads platform and support of a dedicated global sales force for managed campaigns. Our sales team is strategically positioned to attract and retain advertisers across all products, and provides support through all stages of the marketing cycle, including campaign planning, optimization, and performance analytics. A Kind Platform Nextdoor is a leading innovator in creating a welcoming platform that facilitates healthy neighborhood connections and conversations. We set clear Community Guidelines and use a combination of people, including nearly 200,0002 volunteer community moderators, and technology to encourage kind conversations and promote neighborhood vitality. From day one, weve required neighbors to sign up with their real names and addresses to ensure neighborhoods are made up of real people, nearby, and we have improved on similar verification procedures for businesses. We require all new neighbors to accept our Neighbor Pledge upon joining, in order to introduce our Community Guidelines and provide personal accountability for interactions on the platform. Further, neighbors are alerted when a new neighbor joins so they can reach out with a message of connection and belonging and establish rapport. As neighbors interact through the platform, we use a combination of human review and machine learning and predictive technology solutions, like our Kindness Reminder and Constructive Conversations Reminder, launched in 2022, to enforce our Community Guidelines, support civility, and cultivate kindness. In 2023, we gave neighbors the ability to use generative AI to help write posts that are more likely to drive positive community engagement, and integrated AI into the Kindness Remainder to suggest more constructive revisions for comments that may violate the Community Guidelines. These developments enable us to better analyze tone and context, and help authors rephrase posts and comments to receive a better response from their community. We have always believed it is important to incorporate local context into moderation decisions, which is why we have incorporated volunteer community moderators into our moderation program, alongside Nextdoor operations staff. Volunteer community moderators are active neighbors who have access to specialized tools and resources they can utilize as they help enforce our Community Guidelines. While local community moderators review most types of guideline-violating content, reports of certain types of harmful content (e.g., misinformation, discrimination) are handled by Nextdoor operations staff to ensure our standards and policies are applied consistently. Technology Our investments in technology are consistently focused on creating and improving products for neighbors and organizations in the countries in which we operate around the world. We have built generative AI features that personalize the distribution of content and make posts more engaging and kind through the use of Post Assistant. We continue to use machine-learning and proprietary technology to power our product strategy of building an engaged community. We also continue to invest in our proprietary ad platform to expand and improve our advertising solutions for businesses of all sizes. In support of our objectives of delivering advertiser value, reducing advertising effort, and enabling businesses to thrive on Nextdoor, our development roadmap is focused on unifying our self-service offerings, leveraging machine learning and AI technologies to improve ad targeting, and enhancing measurement solutions to better inform our value proposition. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property and core technological innovations are integral components of our business. To establish and protect our intellectual property, proprietary rights and brand, we rely on a combination of federal, state, and common-law rights in the United 2 Nextdoor Transparency Report, 2023. 7 Table of Contents States and the rights under the laws of other countries, patents, trademarks, copyrights, domain name, trade secrets, including know-how, license agreements, confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements with third parties, employee disclosure, and invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights. We own a trademark portfolio, including registered trademarks and applications in the United States and other countries, for the marks NEXTDOOR, , and . We have registered domain names that we use in or relate to our business, such as the domain name and country code top level domain name equivalents. As of December 31, 2023, we had 10 issued patents in the United States. We cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of a patent or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims. Additionally, our current and future patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property or other proprietary rights may be contested, circumvented or found unenforceable or invalid. We may not be able to obtain or maintain sufficient protection for or successfully enforce our intellectual property. We license content, technology, and other intellectual property from our partners, and rely on our license agreements with those partners to use the intellectual property. Third parties may assert claims related to intellectual property rights against our partners or us. For additional information, please see the section entitled Risk Factors Risks Related to Intellectual Property. Human Capital Our Culture and Core Values Community is at the heart of Nextdoor and our community of employees is our lifeblood. Our employees have a wide range of experiences and perspectives, which fuel our purpose to cultivate a kinder world where everyone has a neighborhood they can rely on. Our company core values are: Earn trust everyday; Invest in community; Customer obsessed; Think big; Experiment and learn quickly; and Act like an owner. We live these core values through our approach to our people practices, summarized below. Employees As of December 31, 2023, we had 594 employees in the United States and in our international locations in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Ireland, France and Australia. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging The principles of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) are woven into the very fabric of our organization and guide how we recruit, retain, and develop our talent. Our commitment to DEIB begins at the top and is underscored by the importance of making diverse perspectives a business imperative. This is reflected in the racially diverse and gendered-balanced leaders that make up our Board of Directors, management team, and employees, and who all share in our passion for contributing to and effecting change in communities globally. We thrive on creating a dynamic, inclusive environment that aims to support and value our employees, and contributes to our award-winning company culture. We have active and engaged Employee Resource Groups (ERG) that are aligned around dimensions of diversity, such as gender, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation and other shared attributes, which we believe help foster a sense of community, and a diverse and inclusive workplace. We have equipped our ERG leaders with tools and training to engage in courageous conversations with their communities. This approach is designed to foster space discussions on cultural topics that support the well-being of our employees. 8 Table of Contents We focus our global recruitment efforts on ensuring that teams and hiring managers have the opportunity to consider qualified people from historically excluded groups for open roles. Moreover, we distribute a bi-annual employment engagement survey to measure our employees satisfaction at Nextdoor, including employees perspectives on our current state of workplace inclusivity. Learning, Development, and Engagement We have a dedicated Talent Management and Development team that develops and delivers company-wide people programs and learning and development experiences to help our employees grow in their careers. The programs include performance feedback and promotion cycles and recognition through our Nextdoor Values Awards. Our learning and development experiences focus on onboarding new hires as well as offering resources focused on skills development and compliance training. We are committed to making Nextdoor the best place to work by engaging with, and listening to, our community of employees. We maintain ongoing connection with our team members through regular all hands meetings, our speaker series, and bi-annual engagement surveys. Compensation, Benefits and Perks We provide employees with competitive compensation packages that include base salaries, sales commissions for certain employees, and equity awards. Additional benefits programs (which vary by country and region) include a 401(k) Plan with a company match, healthcare, vision, and dental insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, flexible paid time off, parental leave, and other benefits tailored to the specific needs of our employees such as family forming, caregiving and mental health resources. We also support and encourage our employees to give back to our communities by giving each employee Volunteer Time Off to dedicate to the causes that matter most to them. Competition We compete in almost every aspect of our business with companies that provide a variety of internet products, services, content, and online advertising. In addition, aspects of our platform compete with other products and services, including home services, classifieds, real estate, recommendations and search engines. Of these companies, we most directly compete with social media companies that offer local products to advertisers and users, including large companies such as Meta (including through Facebook and Instagram), Alphabet (including through Google), and other companies that provide home services, classifieds, real estate, recommendations, and search engines. We compete with these companies to attract, engage, and retain users and to attract and retain advertisers. As we introduce new products, as our platform evolves, or as other companies introduce new products and services, we may become subject to additional competition in other countries. While our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive, we believe that we compete effectively due to our singular focus on creating and strengthening our neighborhood networks, the size and engagement of our user base, our ability to provide neighbors with trusted information from a uniquely local perspective, our value proposition to advertisers including businesses and public agencies, and our powerful network effects. Our strengths include a strong value proposition based on real people, real conversations and real achievements; Built-in community: creating instant access for new neighbors and businesses joining the neighborhood; and, Our unique ability to connect neighbors to what matters to them. For our customers key strengths also include real people, as well as a high-intent audience with an action mindset and the ability to target neighborhoods everywhere in the countries we serve. Each of these elements reinforce each other to create a strong competitive moat. For additional information, see the section entitled Risk Factors Our business is highly competitive. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. Government Regulation We are subject to many U.S. federal and state and foreign laws, regulations, and industry standards that involve matters central to our business, including laws and regulations that involve data privacy and data protection, intellectual property (including copyright and patent laws), content regulation, rights of publicity, advertising, marketing, health and safety, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and corruption, telecommunications, AI and machine learning, and securities. Our business may also be affected by the adoption of any new or existing laws or regulations or changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, or that significantly restrict or impose conditions on our ability to collect, store, augment, analyze, use and share data or increase consumer notice or consent requirements before a company can utilize cookies or other tracking technologies or that increase the liability of content platforms like us. These laws and regulations are constantly evolving and may be interpreted, applied, created, or amended, in a manner that could harm our business. 9 Table of Contents We rely on a variety of statutory and common-law frameworks and defenses relevant to the content available on our service, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (the DMCA), the Communications Decency Act (CDA) and the fair-use doctrine in the United States, and the Electronic Commerce Directive in the European Union. However, each of these statutes is subject to uncertain or evolving judicial interpretation and regulatory and legislative amendments. For example, in the United States, laws such as the CDA, which have previously been interpreted to provide substantial protection to interactive computer service providers, have seen recent Supreme Court challenges and there have been legislative efforts to curtail the CDAs protections. These efforts could expose us to lawsuits in which we could incur significant costs and could seriously harm our business. In addition, various countries around the world have adopted legislation, including the Digital Services Act (the DSA) in the European Union, the Online Safety Act in Australia, and the Online Safety Bill in the United Kingdom, that may impose additional obligations or liability on us associated with content uploaded by users to our platform. We receive, process, store, use, and share data, some of which contains personal information. We are therefore subject to U.S. federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations regarding data privacy and the collection, storage, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other data from users, employees or business partners, including the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the United Kingdoms General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR), Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act, Australias The Privacy Act 1988 and Australian Privacy Principles, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), along with similar privacy laws enacted in other U.S. states. There are also a number of legislative proposals recently enacted or pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislatures and foreign governments concerning content regulation and data protection that could affect us, These and other laws and regulations that may be enacted, or new interpretation of existing laws and regulations, may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs in order to comply. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are high and likely to increase in the future, particularly as the degree of regulation increases, our business grows and our geographic scope expands. Further, the impact of these laws and regulations may disproportionately affect our business in comparison to our peers in the technology sector that have greater resources. Any failure on our part to comply with these laws and regulations may subject us to significant liabilities or penalties, or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. Further, it is possible that certain governments may seek to block or limit our products or otherwise impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility or usability of any or all our products for an extended period of time or indefinitely. We communicate with lawmakers and regulators in the countries and regions in which we do business. We have a dedicated policy team that monitors legal and regulatory developments and works with policymakers and regulators around the world to help ensure that our perspective is heard in matters of importance to us. For additional information, see the section entitled Risk Factors Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Matters. Corporate Information We were initially a blank check or special purpose acquisition company called KVSB, incorporated in Delaware on January 29, 2021, formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. On November 5, 2021 (the Closing Date), KVSB consummated the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated July 6, 2021, as amended on September 30, 2021 (the Merger Agreement), by and among KVSB, Lorelei Merger Sub Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of KVSB (Merger Sub) and Nextdoor, Inc. (Legacy Nextdoor), with Legacy Nextdoor surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of KVSB (the Merger and the transactions contemplated thereby, the Business Combination). Legacy Nextdoor was incorporated in Delaware on December 4, 2007. Following the consummation of the Business Combination on the Closing Date, KVSB changed its name from Khosla Ventures Acquisition Co. II to Nextdoor Holdings, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 420 Taylor Street, San Francisco, California 94102 and our telephone number is (415) 344-0333. Our website address is https://www.nextdoor.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this Annual Report. Investors should not rely on any such information in deciding whether to purchase our Class A common stock. Nextdoor, the Nextdoor logo, and other registered or common law trade names, trademarks, or service marks of Nextdoor appearing in this Annual Report are the property of Nextdoor. This Annual Report contains additional trade names, trademarks, and service marks of other companies that are the property of their respective owners. We do not intend our use or display of other companies trade names, trademarks, or service marks to imply a relationship with, or endorsement or sponsorship of us by, these other companies. Solely for convenience, our trademarks and tradenames referred to in this Annual Report appear without the and symbols, but 10 Table of Contents those references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights, or the right of the applicable licensor, to these trademarks and tradenames. Available Information Our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations website at https://investors.nextdoor.com/ as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding us and other companies that file materials with the SEC electronically. Copies of our reports on Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and Forms 8-K, and amendments to those reports may also be obtained, free of charge, electronically through our Investor Relations website located at the web address appearing above as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. We use our Investor Relations website as a means of disclosing material information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our Investor Relations website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. The content of our websites and information that we may post on or provide to online and social media channels and information that can be accessed through our websites or these online and social media channels are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites or these online and social media channels are intended to be inactive textual references only. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our Class A common stock involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report, including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before deciding whether to purchase shares of our Class A common stock. You should also carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this Annual Report, including matters addressed in the above section entitled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Unless otherwise indicated, references in these risk factors to our business being harmed will include harm to our business, reputation, brand, financial condition, operating results, and prospects. In such event, the market price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a limited operating history at the current scale of our business and are still scaling up our monetization efforts, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and there is no assurance we will be able to scale our business for future growth. We commenced operating the Nextdoor platform in 2011 and began supporting the platform with advertising in 2016. Our limited operating history at the current scale of our business may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly evolving industries, including challenges in accurate financial planning and forecasting, increasing competition and expenses as we effectively scale our business, and our ability to achieve market acceptance of our platform and attract, engage and retain users, who we call neighbors (which includes individuals) and organizations (which includes businesses and public agencies, including paying customers such as advertisers). You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties that we may encounter as a business with a limited operating history. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in addressing these and other challenges we may face in the future, and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected if we do not manage these risks successfully. We may not be able to sustain or increase our current rate of growth, which is a risk characteristic often shared by companies with limited operating histories participating in rapidly evolving industries. Additionally, we are still in the early stages of monetizing our platform. Our growth strategy depends on, among other things, increasing neighbors on the network, increasing engagement, developing new and improving existing products for neighbors and organizations, attracting more advertisers (including expanding our sales efforts to reach advertisers in additional international markets), scaling our business with existing advertisers, and delivering targeted advertisements based on neighbors personal taste and interests. Given the current macroeconomic environment, it may be more difficult for us to capitalize on our growth strategies. There can be no assurance that we will successfully increase monetization on our platform or that we will sustain or increase the current growth rate of our revenue. Adverse global economic and financial conditions could harm our business and financial condition. Adverse global economic and financial events and the effects thereof, such as health epidemics or pandemics, the war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war, inflation, changing interest rates, potential recessions, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget or debt ceiling and a potential temporary federal government shutdown related thereto, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, actual or perceived instability in the global banking system, supply chain issues and inventory and labor shortages, have caused, and could in the future cause, disruptions and volatility in global financial markets. These conditions have in the past and may in the future translate to cost increases to us and advertisers and lead to decreased spending by our advertisers. In addition, since the majority of our revenue is derived from advertisers within the United States, economic conditions in the United States have a greater impact on us. We may not perform well in adverse macroeconomic conditions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We currently generate substantially all of our revenue from advertising. If advertisers reduce or eliminate their spending with us, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely impacted. Substantially all of our revenue is currently generated from the sales of advertising on our platform in the form of online display advertisements, which include sponsored posts and local deals. Our advertisers typically do not have long-term advertising spend commitments with us. Many of our advertisers spend only a relatively small portion of their overall advertising budget with us. In 12 Table of Contents addition, advertisers may view some of the features on our platform as experimental and unproven. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver advertisements in an effective manner, or if advertisers do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately generate revenue, may be adversely affected by a number of factors, including but not limited to: decreases in neighbor or advertiser engagement on the platform; slower than anticipated growth in, or lack of growth or decreases in, the number of neighbors active on the platform; the impact of macroeconomic conditions, whether in the advertising industry in general, among specific types of advertisers or within particular geographies, including but not limited to health epidemics or pandemics, actual or perceived instability in the global banking system, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, a potential recession, uncertainty with respect to the federal budget or debt ceiling and a potential temporary federal government shutdown related thereto, inflation and changing interest rates; platform changes (such as the migration to our proprietary ad server) or inventory management decisions that change the size, format, frequency, or relative prominence of advertisements displayed on the platform; competitors offering more attractive pricing for advertisements that we are unable or unwilling to match; a decrease in the quantity or quality of advertisements shown to neighbors; changes to laws, third-party policies or applications that limit our ability to deliver, target, or measure the effectiveness of advertising, including changes by mobile operating system and browser providers such as Apple and Google; changes to demographics of our neighbors that make us less attractive to advertisers; an increase in neighbors who exercise opt-out rights under privacy laws to restrict the advertisements they receive; neighbors that upload content or take other actions that are deemed to be hostile, inappropriate, illicit, objectionable, illegal, or otherwise not consistent with the brand of our advertisers; adverse government actions or legislative, regulatory, or other legal developments; neighbor behavior or changes to the platform that may affect, among other things, the safety and security of other neighbors or the cultivation of a positive and inclusive online community; adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us; implementing or enforcing policies, such as advertising policies, community guidelines, and other terms or service that are perceived negatively by advertisers; our ability to develop and improve our products for advertisers; limitations in, or reductions to, the availability, accuracy, utility, and security of analytics and measurement solutions offered by us or third parties that are intended to demonstrate the value of our advertisements to advertisers; and changes to our data privacy practices that affect the type or manner of advertising that we are able to provide, including as a result of changes to laws, regulations or regulatory actions, such as the GDPR, European Directive 2002/58/EC (the ePrivacy Directive), the UK GDPR, the UK Data Protection Act 2018, the CCPA, Nevadas Online Privacy Law, the CDPA, the VCPDA, the CPRA, and other U.S. state privacy laws, or changes to third-party policies. From time to time, certain of these factors have adversely affected our revenue to varying degrees. The occurrence of any of these or other factors in the future could result in a reduction in demand for our advertisements, which may reduce the prices we receive for our advertisements, or cause advertisers to stop or reduce their spend with us, either of which would negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Similar occurrences in the future may impair our ability to maintain or increase the quantity or quality of advertisements shown to neighbors and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain advertisers depends on our ability to collect and use data and develop products to enable us to effectively deliver and accurately measure advertisements on the Nextdoor platform. Most advertisers rely on tools that measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns in order to allocate their advertising spend among various formats and platforms. If we are unable to accurately measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform, if at all, or if we are unable to convince advertisers that our platform should be part of a larger advertising budget, our ability to increase the demand and pricing of our advertising tools and maintain or scale our revenue may be limited or decline. Our ability to develop and offer products that accurately measure the effectiveness of a campaign on our platform is critical to our ability to attract new advertisers and retain, and increase spend from our existing advertisers. We are continually developing and improving our products for advertisers and such efforts have and are likely to continue to require significant time and resources and additional investment, and in some cases, we have relied on, and may in the future rely on, third parties to provide data and technology needed to provide certain measurement data to our advertisers. If we cannot continue to develop and improve our products for advertisers in a timely fashion, those products are not reliable, or the measurement results are inconsistent with advertisers expectations or goals, our revenue could be adversely affected. In addition, web and mobile browser developers, such as Apple, Microsoft or Google, have implemented and may continue to implement changes, including requiring additional user permissions, in their browser or device operating system that impair our ability to measure and improve the effectiveness of advertising on our platform. Such changes include limiting the use of first-party and third-party cookies and related tracking technologies, such as mobile advertising identifiers, and other changes that limit our ability to collect information that allows us to attribute neighbors actions on advertisers websites to the effectiveness of advertising campaigns run on our platform. For example, Apple launched its Intelligent Tracking Prevention (ITP) feature in its Safari browser. ITP blocks some or all third-party cookies by default on mobile and desktop and ITP has become increasingly restrictive over time. Apples related Privacy-Preserving Ad Click attribution, intended to preserve some of the functionality lost with ITP, would, for example, prevent uniquely identifying individuals and devices across sites for the purpose of Ad Click attribution, prevent measurement outside a narrowly-defined attribution window, and prevent advertisement re-targeting and optimization. Further, Apple introduced an App Tracking Transparency framework that limits the ability of mobile applications to request an iOS devices advertising identifier and may also affect our ability to track neighbors actions off our platform and connect their interactions with on-platform advertising. Similarly, Google has announced that it plans to start phasing out third-party cookies in its Google Chrome browser, beginning in the second half of 2024, and, more recently, that it intends to limit access by mobile applications to advertising identifiers on Android devices. These web and mobile browser developers have also implemented and may continue to implement changes and restrictions in browser or device functionality that limit our ability to communicate with or understand the identity of our neighbors. These restrictions and changes make it more difficult for us to provide the most relevant advertisements to our neighbors, as well as decrease our ability to measure the effectiveness of, re-target or optimize advertising on our platform. Developers may release additional technology that further inhibits our ability to collect data that allows us to measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform. Any other restriction, whether by law, regulation, policy (including third-party policies), user opt-outs or otherwise, on our ability to collect and share data which our advertisers find useful or that further reduce our ability to measure the effectiveness of advertising on our platform, would impede our ability to attract, grow and retain advertisers. Advertisers and other third parties who provide data that helps us deliver personalized, relevant advertising may restrict or stop sharing this data and it therefore may not be possible for us to collect this data within the platform or from another source. We rely heavily on our ability to collect and share data and metrics for our advertisers to help new and existing advertisers understand the performance of advertising campaigns. If advertisers do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations of our neighbors and neighbor engagement, or there are inaccuracies in our metrics, advertisers may decrease or eliminate allocations of their budgets or resources to our platform, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to add new neighbors or retain current neighbors, or if current neighbors engage less with the Nextdoor platform, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely impacted. The number of neighbors that use the Nextdoor platform and their level of engagement on the platform are critical to our success. We must continue to engage and retain existing neighbors on our platform as well as attract, engage and retain new neighbors. The number of neighbors on the Nextdoor platform may not continue to grow at historical growth rates or at all, and it may even decline. In order to attract new neighbors, we must engage with neighbors in existing neighborhoods on our platform and add new neighborhoods to the Nextdoor platform, both domestically and internationally. If our neighbor growth rate slows or reverses, our financial performance will be adversely impacted unless we can increase our engagement with our existing neighbors and our monetization efforts to offset any such reduction or decrease in neighborhood growth rate. 14 Table of Contents If current and potential neighbors do not perceive their experience with the Nextdoor platform to be useful, the content generated on the platform to be valuable or relevant or the social connections with fellow neighbors to be worthwhile, we may not be able to attract new neighbors, retain existing neighbors or maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement on our platform. In addition, if our existing neighbors decrease the frequency or duration of their engagement or the growth rate of our active neighbor base slows or reverses, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenses than we currently anticipate in order to acquire new neighbors or retain current neighbors. There are many factors that could negatively impact our ability to grow, retain and engage current and prospective neighbors, including but not limited to: neighbors increasing their engagement with competitors platforms, products or services instead of, or more frequently than, our platform; changes in the amount of time neighbors spend across all applications and platforms, including our platform; failing to introduce platform enhancements that neighbors find engaging or if we introduce new features, terms, policies or procedures, or make changes to our platform, that are not favorably received by current or prospective neighbors; technical or other problems frustrating the neighbor experience, such as problems that prevent us from delivering our service in a fast and reliable manner; neighbors having difficulty installing, updating or otherwise accessing the Nextdoor platform on mobile devices through the app or web browsers; neighbor behavior on the Nextdoor platform changing, including a decrease in the quality and frequency of content shares on the platform; decreases in neighbor or advertiser sentiment due to questions about the quality or usefulness of our platform, concerns about the nature of content made available on the platform, concerns related to privacy, safety, security, well-being or other factors; changes mandated by legislation, government and regulatory authorities, or litigation that adversely impact our platform or neighbors; third parties preventing their content from being displayed on the Nextdoor platform; changes we may make to how we promote different features on our platform; initiatives designed to attract and retain neighbors and engagement are unsuccessful or discontinued, whether as a result of actions by us, third parties, or otherwise; we, or other partners and companies in the industry are the subject of adverse media reports or other negative publicity; we are unable to combat spam, harassment, cyberbullying or other hostile, inappropriate, abusive or offensive content or usage on our platform; or we cannot preserve and enhance our brand and reputation as a trusted neighborhood networking community. Any decrease in neighbor growth, retention or engagement could render our service less attractive to neighbors or advertisers, and could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, neighbor verification is a critical feature of our platform because it demonstrates that neighbors are real people and businesses in the neighborhood they desire to join. If we were to change our verification methods, that may adversely impact our ability to add new neighbors or retain existing neighbors. Our business is highly competitive. Competition presents an ongoing threat to the success of our business. We compete with companies that provide a variety of internet products, services, content, and online advertising. In addition, aspects of our platform compete with other products and services, including home services, classifieds, real estate, recommendations, and search engines. Of these companies, we most directly compete with social media companies that offer local products to advertisers and users, including large companies such as Meta (including through Facebook and Instagram) and Alphabet (including through Google), and other companies that provide home services, classifieds, real estate, recommendations, and search engines. We compete with these companies to attract, engage, and retain users and to attract and retain advertisers. If we introduce or acquire new products and services or evolve our platform in a way that subjects us to additional competition or as existing competitors introduce new products 15 Table of Contents and services or evolve their platforms, we may fail to engage or retain neighbors or attract new neighbors, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Some of our current and potential competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising spend. They have large distributed sales forces and an increasing amount of control over mobile distribution channels. Many of these competitors economies of scale allow them to have access to larger volumes of data and platforms that are used on a more frequent basis than the Nextdoor platform, which may enable them to better understand their member base and develop and deliver more targeted advertising. Such competitors may not need to rely on third-party data, including data provided by advertisers, to effectively target the campaigns of advertisers, which could make their advertising products more attractive to advertisers than our platform if such third-party data ceases to be available to us, whether because of regulatory changes, privacy or cybersecurity concerns or other reasons. If our advertisers do not believe that our value proposition is as compelling as those of our competitors, we may not be able to attract new advertisers or retain existing ones, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our competitors may develop products, features, or services that are similar to our platform or that achieve greater acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful product development efforts or marketing campaigns, or may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. Some competitors may gain a competitive advantage relative to us in areas where we operate, including by more effectively responding to changes to third-party products and policies or by integrating competing platforms, applications, or features into products they control such as mobile device operating systems, search engines, browsers, or e-commerce platforms. For example, Apple introduced changes starting with iOS 14.5 that limit our ability, and the ability of others in the digital advertising industry, to track individual users and devices, and target and measure advertisements effectively. Additionally, the Apple App Store guidelines require apps that support account creation to also allow users to delete their account within the app. This change has and may continue to impact our ability to retain users. Moreover, Google recently announced that it intends to limit access by mobile applications to advertising identifiers on Android devices, likely by the end of 2024. As a result, our competitors may, and in some cases will, acquire and engage neighbors or generate advertising or other revenue at the expense of our efforts, which would negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, from time to time, we may take actions in response to competitive threats, but we cannot assure you that these actions will be successful or that they will not negatively affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We believe that our ability to compete depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance, and reliability of our platform compared to our competitors products; the size and composition of our neighbor base; the engagement of neighbors with our platform and competing products; first- and third-party data available to us relative to our competitors; our ability to attract and retain advertisers who use our free or paid advertisements services; the timing and market acceptance of developments and enhancements to our platform or our competitors products; our safety and security efforts and our ability to protect neighbor data and to provide neighbors with control over their data; our ability to distribute our platform to new and existing neighbors; our ability to effectively monetize our platform; the successful implementation of platform changes, such as the migration to our proprietary ad server and introduction of AI technologies into our platform; the frequency, size, format, quality, and relative prominence of the advertisements displayed by us or our competitors; customer service and support efforts; marketing and selling efforts, including our ability to measure the effectiveness of our advertisements and to provide advertisers with a compelling return on their investments; our ability to establish and maintain publisher interest in integrating their content with our platform; 16 Table of Contents changes mandated by legislation, regulatory authorities, or litigation, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers, designers, and managers; our ability to cost-effectively manage and grow our operations; and our reputation and brand strength relative to those of our competitors. If we are not able to compete effectively, our neighbor base and level of neighbor engagement may decrease, we may become less attractive to advertisers and our business, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our business is dependent on our ability to maintain and scale our product offerings and technical infrastructure, and any significant disruption in the availability of our platform could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of neighbors and engagement, and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain, and serve our neighbors and to scale our product offerings is dependent upon the reliable performance of our platform and our underlying technical infrastructure. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, interruptions in the availability or performance of our platform from time to time. Our systems may not be adequately designed or may not operate with the reliability and redundancy necessary to avoid performance delays or outages that could be harmful to our business. If our platform is unavailable when neighbors attempt to access it, or if it does not load as quickly as expected, neighbors may not use our platform as often in the future, or at all, and our ability to serve advertisements may be disrupted, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. As the amount and types of information shared on our platform continues to grow and evolve, as the usage patterns of our communities continues to evolve, and as our internal operational demands continue to grow, we will need an increasing amount of technical infrastructure, including network capacity and computing power, to continue to satisfy our needs. If we fail to continue to effectively scale and grow our technical infrastructure to accommodate these increased demands, neighbor engagement and revenue growth may be adversely impacted. Moreover, as we scale our platform and product offerings, including video and other platform features, that may place strain on our technical infrastructure, and we may also be unsuccessful in scaling our technical infrastructure to accommodate new product offerings and increased platform usage cost-effectively. In addition, our business may be subject to interruptions, delays, or failures resulting from earthquakes, fires, floods, adverse weather conditions, other natural disasters, power loss, terrorism, pandemics, geopolitical conflict (including the current war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war), other physical security threats, cyber-attacks, or other catastrophic events. If such an event were to occur, neighbors may be subject to service disruptions or outages and we may not be able to recover our technical infrastructure and neighbor data in a timely manner to restart or provide our services, which may adversely affect our financial results. In addition, the substantial amount of our employees are based in our headquarters located in San Francisco, California. If there is a catastrophic failure involving our systems or major disruptive event affecting our headquarters or the San Francisco area in general, we may be unable to operate our platform. A substantial portion of our network infrastructure is provided by third parties, including AWS. We also rely on third parties for other technology related services, including certain AI functions. Any disruption or failure in the services we receive from these providers could impact the availability of our platform and could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Any financial or other difficulties these providers face may adversely affect our business, and we exercise little control over these providers, which increases our reliance on and vulnerability to problems with the services they provide and increases in the costs of these services. Any of these developments may result in interruptions in the availability or performance of our platform, result in neighbors ceasing to use our platform, require unfavorable changes to our platform, delay the introduction of future products, or otherwise adversely affect our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to scale our business effectively, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. We have experienced growth in recent years and expect to continue to invest strategically across our organization to support measured growth, while also scaling back certain areas of our business in response to changing economic conditions. Although we have experienced rapid growth historically, we may not return to prior growth rates or sustain our growth rates, nor can we assure you that our investments to support our growth or to manage expenses by scaling back other areas of our business will be successful. The effective scaling of our business will require us to invest financial and operational resources and the continuous dedication of our management team. 17 Table of Contents We plan to continue to expand our international operations into more countries in the future, which will place additional demands on our resources and operations. The growth and expansion of our business has placed, and continues to place, a significant strain on our management, operations, and financial and technical infrastructure. In the event of further growth of our business or in the number of our third-party relationships, our information technology systems or our internal