Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. 14 Table of Contents Despite our high indebtedness level, we will still be able to incur substantial additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt agreements contain various incurrence covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These incurrence covenants will limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt or make other restricted payments; make certain investments and acquisitions; create certain liens; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to us; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; alter our existing businesses; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the incurrence covenants in our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements and permit our lenders to cease making loans to us under our credit facility (as defined below). Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our secured debt agreements, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure our borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could also cause cross defaults under our other debt agreements. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to refinance our debt obligations as they mature. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. We regularly review our capital structure, various financing alternatives and conditions in the debt and equity markets in order to opportunistically enhance our capital structure. In connection therewith, we may seek to refinance or retire existing indebtedness, incur new or additional indebtedness or issue equity or equity-linked securities, in each case, depending on market and other conditions. As our debt obligations mature or if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of our existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation. Approximately 29% of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, which may result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or 15 Table of Contents reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. In 2018 , the U.S. dollar strengthened compared to the Brazilian real, which unfavorably affected our revenue by $4.0 million . In contrast, a weakening of the U.S. dollar may beneficially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations and may decline. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: macro or micro-economic factors; our operating and financial performance and prospects; quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; loss of any member of our senior management team; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; sales of our common stock by stockholders; general market conditions; domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; loss of a major customer; and the declaration and payment of a dividend. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, due to the market capitalization of our stock, our stock tends to be more volatile than large capitalization stocks that comprise the Dow Jones Industrial Average or Standard and Poors 500 Index. 16 Table of Contents Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable and may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, a classified board of directors and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to five million preferred shares without a stockholder vote. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call a special meeting. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Generally, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. We anticipate that the provisions of Section 203 may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions may constitute an important part of our future growth strategy. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and may continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We regularly evaluate acquisition transactions, sign non-disclosure agreements, and participate in processes with respect to acquisitions, some of which may be material to us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. In addition, we may borrow funds or issue equity to acquire other businesses, increasing our interest expense and debt levels or diluting our existing stockholders ownership interest in us. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to complete acquisitions without prior approval of our lenders. We have had difficulty with purchase accounting and other aspects related to the accounting for our acquisitions which resulted in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have remediated these material weaknesses, there can be no assurances we will not face similar issues with respect to any future acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We either may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or it may take longer to realize such benefits. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired businesses into our existing businesses. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude the realization of the full anticipated benefits. The difficulties of combining the operations of acquired companies include, among others: the diversion of managements attention to integration matters; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including, without limitation, the complexities associated with managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company, addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the acquired companies; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired businesses with our own; the inability to implement effective internal controls, procedures and policies for acquired businesses as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 within the time periods prescribed thereby; the exposure to potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with acquired businesses; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and 17 Table of Contents the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, ongoing operations or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy, which could materially impact our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, we incurred a significant amount of debt in connection with our acquisitions in the past few years. Finally, in relation to such acquisitions, we have significantly higher amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. These intangible assets will be subject to impairment testing, and we could incur a significant impact to our financial statements in the form of an impairment if assumptions and expectations related to our acquisitions are not realized. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $182.5 million . We have and will continue to incur expenses related to our acquisitions and the integration of our acquired companies. We have and will continue to incur expenses related to our acquisitions and the integration of our acquired companies. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These integration expenses may result in us taking charges against earnings, and the amount of any future charges are uncertain at present. We may be unable to realize the anticipated cost or capital expenditure savings or may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the anticipated cost or capital expenditure savings from our acquisitions in the anticipated amounts or within the anticipated timeframes or at all. With respect to each acquisition, we anticipate implementing a series of cost savings initiatives that we expect to result in recurring, annual run-rate cost savings. These or any other cost or capital expenditure savings that we realize may differ materially from our estimates. We cannot provide assurances that these anticipated savings will be achieved or that our programs and improvements will be completed as anticipated or at all. In addition, any cost savings that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in revenues or through increases in other expenses. Our projections and assumptions related to cost savings are based on our current estimates, but they involve risks, uncertainties, projections and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements, express or implied. Neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent auditors, have examined, compiled or performed any procedures with respect to these projections, nor have they expressed any opinion, or any other form of assurance on such information or their achievability. Assumptions relating to our projections involve subjective decisions and judgments with respect to, among other things, the estimated impact of certain operational adjustments, including Six Sigma/OpEx optimization programs, product grouping and rationalization, facility rationalization and shared services cost savings and other cost and savings adjustments, as well as future economic, competitive, industry and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are inherently uncertain and may be beyond the control of our management. Failure to realize the expected costs savings and operating synergies related to our acquisitions could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our future results could suffer if we cannot effectively manage our expanded operations, which are significantly larger and more complex following our acquisitions. As a result of our acquisitions over the past few years, the size and scope of our operations were significantly increased. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage the expanded operations, which will pose challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We may not have the expertise, experience and resources to pursue or successfully operate all of our businesses at once. The administration of our businesses requires implementation and oversight of appropriate operations, management, compliance and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties in effectively implementing and overseeing these and other systems. Such implementation and initial oversight will require the focused attention of our management team, including a significant commitment of its time and resources. The need for management to focus on these matters could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues and operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from our acquisitions. 18 Table of Contents The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements from past acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited in amount and duration and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. Our participation in joint ventures could expose us to additional risks from time to time. We currently have a 49% investment in a Chinese joint venture and may participate in additional joint ventures from time to time. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. Any divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business and retained liabilities from businesses that we may sell could adversely affect our financial results. As part of our portfolio management process, we review our operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with our strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs, disputes with buyers or potential impairment charges. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had previously anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are also subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, lease payments, product liability claims or environmental matters. Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect future financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2018 , we owned or leased 51 facilities in a total of seven countries, which includes a 49% equity interest in a manufacturing joint venture in China. Utilization of these sites may vary with product mix and economic, seasonal, and other business conditions. Our plants generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and expected near-term growth. These plants are generally well maintained, in good operating condition, and suitable and adequate for their use. The following table lists the locations of our facilities by segment. 19 Table of Contents Mobile Solutions Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Boituva Plant Brazil Leased Campinas Office Brazil Leased Dowagiac, Michigan Plant U.S.A. Owned Juarez Plant Mexico Leased Kamienna Gora Plant Poland Owned Kentwood, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 3, Warehouse U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Office U.S.A. Owned Marnaz Plant France Owned Marshall, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Marshall, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista Plant 1 Brazil Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista Plant 2 Brazil Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Wuxi Plant China Leased Power Solutions Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Algonquin, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 3 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Office U.S.A. Leased Fairfield, Ohio Plant U.S.A. Owned Foshan City Plant China Leased Franklin, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Hingham, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Irvine, California Plant U.S.A. Leased Lubbock, Texas Plant U.S.A. Owned Mexico City Plant Mexico Owned North Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Owned Palmer, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Placentia, California Plant U.S.A. Leased 20 Table of Contents Life Sciences Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Aurora, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Leased Bridgeport, Connecticut Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Bridgeport, Connecticut Plant 2 U.S.A. Owned Changzhou Plant China Leased East Providence, Rhode Island Plant U.S.A. Leased Hatfield, Pennsylvania Plant U.S.A. Leased Indianapolis, Indiana Plant U.S.A. Leased Lausanne Office Switzerland Leased Mansfield, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Mansfield, Massachusetts Warehouse U.S.A. Leased Pierceton, Indiana Plant U.S.A. Leased Siechnice Plant Poland Owned Smithfield, Utah Plant U.S.A. Leased Vandalia, Ohio Plant U.S.A. Leased Wallingford, Connecticut Plant U.S.A. Leased Warsaw, Indiana Plant U.S.A. Leased Joint Venture Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Wuxi Plant China Leased In addition to these manufacturing plants, we lease an office building in Johnson City, Tennessee, which serves as our global shared services center, and an office building in Charlotte, North Carolina, which serves as our corporate headquarters. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Prior to the Autocam acquisition, Autocams Brazilian subsidiary received notification from the Brazilian tax authorities regarding ICMS (State Value Added Tax or VAT) tax credits claimed on intermediary materials (tooling and perishable items) used in the manufacturing process. The Brazilian tax authority notification disallowed state ICMS credits claimed on intermediary materials based on the argument that these items are not intrinsically related to the manufacturing processes. Autocam Brazil filed an administrative defense with the Brazilian tax authority arguing, among other matters, that it should qualify for ICMS tax credit, contending that the intermediary materials are directly related to the manufacturing process. The matter encompasses several lawsuits filed with Brazilian courts requesting declaratory actions that no tax is due or seeking a stay of execution on the collection of the tax. In 2018, we obtained a favorable decision in one of the declaratory actions for which the period for appeal has expired. We have filed actions in each court requesting dismissal of the matter based on the earlier court action. Although we anticipate a favorable resolution to all matters, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in achieving dismissal of all pending cases. We believe that we have substantial legal and factual defenses, and we plan to defend our interests in this matter vigorously. While we believe a loss is not probable, we estimate the range of possible losses related to this assessment is from $0 to $6.0 million. No amount was accrued at December 31, 2018 , for this matter. There was no material change in the status of this matter during 2018 . We are entitled to indemnification from the former shareholders of Autocam, subject to the limitations and procedures set forth in the agreement and plan of merger relating to the Autocam acquisition. Management believes the indemnification would include amounts owed for the tax, interest and penalties related to this matter. 21 Table of Contents All other legal proceedings are of an ordinary and routine nature and are incidental to our operations. Management believes that such proceedings should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In making that determination, we analyze the facts and circumstances of each case at least quarterly in consultation with our attorneys and determine a range of reasonably possible outcomes. The procedures performed include reviewing attorney and plaintiff correspondence, reviewing any filings made and discussing the facts of the case with local management and legal counsel. We have not recognized any material loss contingencies at December 31, 2018 , or at December 31, 2017 . Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq under the trading symbol NNBR . As of March 8, 2019 , there were approximately 8,100 beneficial owners of record of our common stock, and the closing per share stock price as reported by Nasdaq was $9.51 . The following graph and table compare the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total shareholder return of: (i) the S&P SmallCap 600 Index and (ii) a customized peer group, for the period from December 31, 2013 , to December 31, 2018 . The customized peer group consists of the following companies, which we believe are in similar lines of business: Actuant Corporation, Altra Industrial Motion Corp., Ametek Inc., CIRCOR International, Inc., Colfax Corporation, Crane, Kaman Corporation, Park-Ohio Holdings Corp. and Worthington Industries, Inc. (collectively, the Peer Group). The following graph and table assume that a $100 investment was made at the close of trading on December 31, 2013 , in our common stock and in the S&P SmallCap Index and the Peer Group. We cannot assure you that the performance of our common stock will continue in the future with the same or similar trend depicted on the graph. Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return NN, Inc. , Peer Group, and S&P SmallCap 600 Index (Performance results through 12/31/2018 ) 22 Table of Contents 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 NN, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 103.10 $ 80.91 $ 98.44 $ 144.20 $ 35.74 Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 89.60 $ 76.12 $ 89.29 $ 112.75 $ 92.40 S&P SmallCap 600 $ 100.00 $ 105.76 $ 103.68 $ 131.21 $ 148.57 $ 135.97 Source: Value Line Publishing LLC The declaration and payment of dividends are subject to the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, credit agreement restrictions, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. See Part III, Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by Item 201 (d) of Regulation S-K. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data has been derived from our audited financial statements. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the Notes thereto, in Item 8. Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 770,657 $ 619,793 $ 584,954 $ 405,443 $ 210,575 Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 588,205 459,080 428,843 320,632 169,263 Goodwill impairment 182,542 Income (loss) from operations (178,888 ) 33,114 34,779 58 (3,776 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (264,467 ) 25,364 (9,490 ) (24,375 ) (12,788 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 137,688 16,153 17,889 21,005 Income (loss) from continuing operations per share, basic $ (8.35 ) $ 0.92 $ (0.35 ) $ (1.15 ) $ (0.71 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations per share, diluted $ (8.35 ) $ 0.91 $ (0.35 ) $ (1.15 ) $ (0.71 ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 As of December 31, 2018 2017 2016 (1) 2015 (1) 2014 (1) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets $ 296,871 $ 477,280 $ 282,328 $ 283,910 $ 245,131 Current liabilities 145,030 108,421 140,241 132,491 138,485 Total assets 1,501,570 1,475,003 1,358,274 1,388,337 703,892 Long-term obligations 817,549 792,499 788,953 802,011 327,759 Stockholders equity 418,295 486,104 309,391 312,431 172,989 (1) Current assets of discontinued operations were $106.7 million , $98.9 million , and $106.3 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. Current liabilities of discontinued operations were $45.2 million , $44.6 million , and $54.9 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. Total assets of discontinued operations were $210.7 million , $204.4 million , $214.3 million as of December 31, 2016 , 2015 , and 2014 , respectively. During 2018 , we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $182.5 million as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements and issued shares of common stock in a public offering as described in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, acquisitions made in 2018 and 2017 contributed net sales and income from operations of $153.0 million and $10.4 million , respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2018 , as described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, . 23 Table of Contents During 2017, we completed the sale of our global precision bearing components business (the PBC Business) and recorded an after-tax gain on sale of $127.7 million as described Note 2 to the consolidate financial statements. Also during 2017 , we acquired DRT Medical, subsequently renamed NN Life Sciences - Vandalia, LLC (NN Vandalia), which contributed $30.7 million to net sales and $1.5 million to income from operations during the year ended December 31, 2018 and $6.7 million to net sales and $0.5 million to loss from operations during the year ended December 31, 2017 as described in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2016, we recognized an increase in net sales of $174.2 million and increase in income from operations of $38.5 million primarily due to the acquisition of our former Precision Engineered Products Group. During 2015, we acquired two businesses, including our former Precision Engineered Products group, which contributed $40.7 million to net sales and $5.1 million to loss from operations during the year ended December 31, 2015. Also during 2015, we issued shares of common shares in a public offering with net proceeds used for repayment of principal and interest on existing debt. During 2014, we acquired several businesses including Autocam Corporation, which is now the Mobile Solutions group. For the year ended December 31, 2014, the acquisitions contributed $100.7 million to net sales and $5.8 million to income from operations. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Historical operating results and percentage relationships among any amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. Unless otherwise noted herein, all amounts are in thousands, except per share numbers. Overview and Management Focus Our strategy and management focus are based upon the following long-term objectives Organic and acquisitive growth within all our segments; Sales growth in adjacent markets Sales growth through acquisitions; and Global expansion of our manufacturing base to better address the global requirements of our customers. Management generally focuses on these trends and relevant market indicators Global industrial growth and economics; Residential and non-residential construction rates; Global automotive production rates; Surgery rates and U.S. healthcare spending; Costs subject to the global inflationary environment, including, but not limited to: Raw materials; Wages and benefits, including health care costs; Regulatory compliance; and Energy; Trends related to the geographic migration of competitive manufacturing; Regulatory environment for United States public companies and manufacturing companies; Currency and exchange rate movements and trends; Interest rate levels and expectations; and Changes in tariff regulations. Management generally focuses on the following key indicators of operating performance Sales growth; 24 Table of Contents Cost of sales; Selling, general and administrative expense; Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; Return on invested capital; Income from operations and adjusted income from operations; Net income and adjusted net income; Cash flow from operations and capital spending; Customer service reliability; External and internal quality indicators; and Employee development. Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies, including the assumptions and judgment underlying them, are disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . These policies have been consistently applied in all material respects and address such matters as revenue recognition, inventory valuation, and asset impairment recognition. Due to the estimation processes involved, management considers the following summarized accounting policies and their application to be critical to understanding our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that actual results will not significantly differ from the estimates used in these critical accounting policies. Business Combinations We allocate the total purchase price of tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the business combination date, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The purchase price allocation process requires us to use significant estimates and assumptions, including fair value estimates, as of the business combination date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired company. Our assumptions and estimates are also partially based on valuation models that incorporate projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans and are inherently uncertain. Valuations are performed by management or third-party valuation specialists under managements supervision. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, as appropriate, we may use one of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (including discounted cash flows, relief from royalty and excess earnings model), the market approach, or the replacement cost approach. Examples of significant estimates used to value certain intangible assets acquired include but are not limited to: sales volume, pricing and future cash flows of the business overall; future expected cash flows from customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets, including future price levels, rates of increase in revenue and appropriate attrition rate; the acquired companys brand and competitive position, royalty rate quantum, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to benefit the combined companys product portfolio; and cost of capital, risk-adjusted discount rates, and income tax rates. Different assumptions regarding projected performance and other factors associated with the acquired assets may affect the amount recorded under each type of asset and liability. The valuations of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill and deferred income tax liabilities depend heavily on assumptions. Subsequent assessment could result in future impairment charges. We refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained surrounding facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition date. Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and between annual tests if a triggering event occurs. The impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit level. For the impairment test as of October 1, 2018 , we elected to early adopt the new goodwill accounting standard which requires us to calculate an impairment charge based on a reporting units carrying amount in excess of its fair value (i.e., step 1 of the two-step impairment test). If the carrying value of the reporting unit including goodwill is less than fair value of the reporting unit, the goodwill is not considered impaired. Under the new guidance, we no longer perform step 2 of the two-step goodwill impairment test or calculate an impairment charge using 25 Table of Contents an implied fair value. Based on the results of performing the first step of the impairment test, the carrying value of certain reporting units exceed the fair value at December 31, 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we recorded an impairment charge of $182.5 million to the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) . Power Solutions goodwill as of December 31, 2018 was $94.5 million. In conjunction with the annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2018, Power Solutions goodwill was impaired by $109.1 million, resulting in the carrying value of the reporting unit being equal to its fair value. If our assessment of the relevant facts and circumstances change, or if the actual performance falls short of expected results, an additional impairment charge will be required. An impairment of goodwill may also lead us to record an impairment of other intangible assets. The carrying value of finite-lived intangible assets for the Power Solutions group as of December 31, 2018 was $96.0 million. Life Sciences has largely grown through acquisitions, with two acquisitions in 2018 plus another acquisition in late-2017. The Company is forecasting continued growth for the Life Sciences group; however, the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value by approximately 3.7% in the most recent valuation. If our assessment of the relevant facts and circumstances change, or the actual performance falls short of expected results, the result may lead to impairment charges. Total goodwill for the Life Sciences group as of December 31, 2018 was $344.9 million. An impairment of goodwill may also lead us to record an impairment of other intangible assets. The carrying amount of finite-lived intangible assets for the Life Sciences group as of December 31, 2018 was $244.4 million. See Note 8 for further discussion on goodwill. For the year ended, December 31, 2017 , we performed the two-step goodwill impairment test under accounting standards in effect at that time. Based on the results of performing the first step of the impairment test, the fair value of the reporting units exceeded the carrying value of the reporting units at December 31, 2017 . Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Provision has been made for income taxes on unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries as these earnings are not deemed to be permanently reinvested. We recognize income tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold and accrue interest and potential penalties related to unrecognized income tax positions which are recorded as a component of the provision (benefit) for income taxes. The calculation of tax assets, liabilities, and expenses under U.S. GAAP is largely dependent on management judgment of the current and future deductibility and utilization of taxable expenses and benefits using a more likely than not threshold. Specifically, the realization of deferred tax assets and the certainty of tax positions taken are largely dependent upon management weighting the current positive and negative evidence for recording tax benefits and expenses. Additionally, many of our positions are based on future estimates of taxable income and deductibility of tax positions. Particularly, our assertion of permanent reinvestment of foreign undistributed earnings is largely based on managements future estimates of domestic and foreign cash flows and current strategic foreign investment plans. In the event that the actual outcome from future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions or management plans and positions are amended, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and financial position. (See Note 1 and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). As of December 31, 2018, the Company is not asserting indefinite reinvestment on unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries in China and Mexico. We have recorded a U.S. deferred tax liability as applicable for these subsidiaries. All other foreign earnings continue to be considered indefinitely reinvested. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived tangible and intangible assets subject to depreciation or amortization are tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. A test for recoverability is also performed when management has committed to a plan to dispose of a reporting unit or asset group. Assets to be held and used are tested for recoverability when indications of impairment are evident. Recoverability of a long-lived tangible or intangible asset is evaluated by comparing its carrying value to the future estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. If the asset is not recoverable, then the asset is considered impaired and adjusted to fair value which is then depreciated or amortized over its remaining useful life. Assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lesser of carrying value or fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing potential impairment for long-lived assets, we consider forecasted financial performance based, in large part, on management business plans and projected financial information which are subject to a high 26 Table of Contents degree of management judgment and complexity. Future adverse changes in market conditions or adverse operating results of the underlying assets could result in having to record additional impairment charges not previously recognized. Critical Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-2, Leases . ASU 2016-2 creates Topic 842, Leases, (ASC 842) in the ASC and supersedes ASC 840, Leases. Entities that hold numerous equipment and real estate leases, in particular those with numerous operating leases, will be most affected by the new guidance. The lease accounting standard is effective for NN beginning January 1, 2019, with modified retrospective adoption required and early adoption permitted. We intend to utilize the practical expedient to recognize the cumulative-effect adoption adjustment to retained earnings as of January 1, 2019, and not adjust comparative periods. The adoption of ASC 842 is expected to impact our balance sheet by adding lease-related assets and liabilities. The loan covenants in our credit facility provide for the continuation of covenant computations in accordance with U.S. GAAP prior to changes in accounting principles. Therefore, we do not expect the adoption of ASC 842 to affect our compliance. We have performed inquiries within each of our business groups and compiled information on operating and capital leases. We are using the results of these inquiries and compiled information to evaluate the impacts of the lease accounting standard on our financial position, results of operations, and related disclosures. Upon adoption, we expect that leases with terms greater than twelve months that are currently classified as operating leases and not recorded on our balance sheet will be recognized as a right-of-use asset and lease liability. We are implementing an enterprise-wide lease accounting system and are in the process of verifying data in the system that will enable us to determine the amounts of those assets and liabilities. We have reviewed all leases and are in the process of documenting our conclusions, establishing internal controls, and determining discount rates to generate the initial accounting entries upon adoption of the standard. We expect the right-of-use asset and lease liability to be between $65.0 million and $95.0 million each. Results of Operations Factors That May Influence Results of Operations The following paragraphs describe factors that have influenced results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 , that management believes are important to provide an understanding of the business and results of operations, or that may influence operations in the future. Management Structure In January 2018, we implemented a new enterprise and management structure designed to accelerate growth and further balance our portfolio by aligning our strategic assets and businesses. Our businesses were reorganized into the Mobile Solutions, Power Solutions, and Life Sciences groups and are based principally on the end markets they serve. The Autocam Precision Components Group reported in our historical financial statements was renamed as Mobile Solutions. The Mobile Solutions group is focused on growth in the general industrial and automotive end markets. The Precision Engineered Products Group reported in our historical financial statements was bifurcated into two new groups Power Solutions and Life Sciences. The Power Solutions group is focused on growth in the electrical and aerospace and defense end markets. The Life Sciences group is focused on growth in the medical end market. In the first quarter of 2018 , we began reporting our financial results based on these new reportable segments. Prior year amounts have been revised to confirm to the current year presentation. Acquisitions On May 7, 2018 , we acquired 100% of the stock of PMG Intermediate Holding Corporation, the parent company of Paragon Medical for a base purchase price of $375.0 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. After working capital and other closing adjustments, the cash purchase price was approximately $390.9 million which included $13.6 million in cash acquired. During the year ended December 31, 2018 , we received $1.4 million additional cash from the seller to settle working capital adjustments. For accounting purposes, Paragon Medical meets the definition of a business and has been accounted for as a business combination. Paragon Medical is a medical device manufacturer which focuses on the orthopedic, case and tray, implant, and instrument markets. This acquisition continues our strategic focus to expand our Life Sciences portfolio as well as create a balanced business by diversifying our products and finished device offerings. Operating results of Paragon Medical are reported prospectively from the date of acquisition in our Life Sciences group. We have performed an assessment of the opening balance sheet which is subject to completion of our integration procedures for accounting policies. Opening balance sheet deferred taxes have been recorded based on estimates made as of the acquisition date as well as information currently available to management. As estimates are refined and additional information is received throughout the measurement period, 27 Table of Contents adjustments to opening deferred taxes may be recorded with an offsetting adjustment to goodwill. We incurred new debt in connection with the Paragon Medical acquisition and subsequently repaid the new debt in full with the proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock . In connection with the closing of the Paragon Medical acquisition, we entered into the Second Lien Credit Agreement for the Second Lien Facility. We utilized the net proceeds from the Second Lien Facility, together with cash on hand, to pay the Paragon Medical purchase price and fees and expenses related to the acquisition. We also entered into an amendment to our existing credit facility to permit the Paragon Medical acquisition, to permit the Second Lien Credit Agreement, and to amend certain covenants (refer to Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional disclosure). On September 18, 2018 , we issued 14.4 million shares of our common stock in a registered public offering. Net proceeds of approximately $217.3 million were used to repay the Second Lien Facility and a portion of the Senior Secured Revolver. On February 22, 2018 , we completed the acquisition of 100% of the assets of Bridgemedica . For accounting purposes, Bridgemedica meets the definition of a business and has been accounted for as a business combination. Bridgemedica is a medical device company that provides concept to supply solutions through design, development engineering and manufacturing. Operating results of Bridgemedica are reported prospectively in our Life Sciences group after the acquisition date. We have finalized our valuation related to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. On August 9, 2018 , we completed the acquisition of 100% of the capital stock of Technical Arts. For accounting purposes, Technical Arts meets the definition of a business and has been accounted for as a business combination. Technical Arts is an industrial machining company that manufactures tight tolerance metal components and assemblies. The acquisition of Technical Arts expands the NN presence in the aerospace and defense end market. Operating results of Technical Arts are reported prospectively in our Power Solutions group after the acquisition date. We have completed a preliminary purchase price allocation and are in the process of finalizing the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed. As discussed in our 2017 Annual Report, on October 2, 2017, we completed the acquisition of NN Vandalia, a supplier of precision manufactured medical instruments and orthopedic implants with locations in Ohio and Pennsylvania. Discontinued Operations On August 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our PBC Business. The PBC Business included all our facilities that were engaged in the production of precision steel balls, steel rollers, and metal retainers and automotive specialty products used primarily in the bearing industry. The sale of the PBC Business furthers managements long-term strategy to build a diversified industrial business with a comprehensive geographic footprint in attractive high-growth market segments. The PBC Business represented all of the Precision Bearing Components Group reportable segment disclosed in our historical financial statements. In accordance with ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations, the operating results of the PBC Business for 2017 are classified as discontinued operations. The presentation of discontinued operations includes revenues and expenses of the discontinued operations, net of tax, as one line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) . All historical Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) presented have been revised to reflect this presentation. Accordingly, results of the PBC Business have been excluded from continuing operations and group results for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes unless otherwise stated. Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act) reduced the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. We have completed our accounting for the enactment of the Tax Act incorporating assumptions made based upon our current interpretation of the Tax Act and relevant proposed regulations in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118. We have also accounted for impacts of the Tax Act which became effective in 2018. The amounts recorded as it relates to the Tax Act could change in the future as a result of further guidance and regulations being issued and evaluated. Financial Data as a Percentage of Net Sales The following table sets forth for the periods indicated selected financial data and the percentage of our net sales represented by each income statement line item presented. 28 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 76.3 % 74.1 % 73.3 % Selling, general and administrative expense 12.1 % 12.0 % 11.0 % Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 0.8 % 0.1 % % Depreciation and amortization 9.2 % 8.5 % 8.7 % Other operating (income) expense, net 0.8 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Goodwill impairment 23.7 % % % Restructuring and integration expense, net 0.3 % 0.1 % 1.0 % Income (loss) from operations (23.2 )% 5.1 % 5.9 % Interest expense 7.9 % 8.4 % 10.7 % Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of debt issuance costs 2.5 % 6.8 % 0.4 % Derivative payments on interest rate swap % % 0.1 % Derivative loss (gain) on change in interest rate swap fair value % % 0.4 % Other (income) expense, net 0.2 % (0.3 )% (0.5 )% Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (33.8 )% (9.8 )% (5.2 )% Benefit for income taxes 1.4 % 12.8 % 2.6 % Share of net income (loss) from joint venture (1.9 )% 0.8 % 1.0 % Income (loss) from continuing operations (34.3 )% 3.8 % (1.6 )% Income from discontinued operations, net of tax (Note 2) % 22.2 % 2.8 % Net income (loss) (34.3 )% 26.0 % 1.2 % Sales Concentration During 2018 , sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 49% of our consolidated net sales. However, no customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales for 2018 . The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and have a corresponding negative impact on our income from operations due to the operational leverage these customers provide. This could lead to sales volumes not being high enough to cover our current cost structure or to provide adequate operating cash flows or cause us to incur additional restructuring and/or impairment costs. 29 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 $ Change Net sales $ 770,657 $ 619,793 $ 150,864 Acquisitions $ 152,952 Volume 7,320 Foreign exchange effects (2,083 ) Price/mix/inflation/other (7,325 ) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 588,205 459,080 129,125 Acquisitions $ 112,774 Volume 5,785 Foreign exchange effects (1,438 ) Cost reduction projects (7,501 ) Inflation 9,599 Mix/other 9,906 Selling, general and administrative expense 93,583 74,112 19,471 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 5,871 344 5,527 Depreciation and amortization 71,128 52,406 18,722 Other operating (income) expense, net 6,089 351 5,738 Goodwill impairment 182,542 182,542 Restructuring and integration expense, net 2,127 386 1,741 Income (loss) from operations (178,888 ) 33,114 (212,002 ) Interest expense 61,243 52,085 9,158 Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of debt issuance costs 19,562 42,087 (22,525 ) Derivative loss (gain) on change in interest rate swap fair value (101 ) 101 Other (income) expense, net 1,341 (2,084 ) 3,425 Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (261,034 ) (58,873 ) (202,161 ) Benefit for income taxes 10,957 79,026 (68,069 ) Share of net income (loss) from joint venture (14,390 ) 5,211 (19,601 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations (264,467 ) 25,364 (289,831 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax (Note 2) 137,688 (137,688 ) Net income (loss) $ (264,467 ) $ 163,052 $ (427,519 ) Net Sales . Net sales increased by $150.9 million , or 24% , in 2018 compared to 2017 , primarily due to $153.0 million of net sales attributable to the 2018 acquisitions of Paragon Medical and Bridgemedica, and the fourth quarter 2017 acquisition of NN Vandalia, in our Life Sciences group and the Technical Arts business acquired in our Power Solutions group. Higher volumes contributed another $7.3 million to the increase primarily as a result of demand improvements within the automotive, life sciences, and electrical end markets. These increases were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange effects of $2.1 million . Cost of Sales. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to $112.8 million in cost of sales attributable to the Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, NN Vandalia, and Technical Arts acquisitions. Higher volumes also contributed $5.8 million to the increase , consistent with the increase in sales demand. These volume increases were partially offset by favorable foreign exchange effects and $7.5 million in cost savings from production process improvement projects. Inflation and wage increases contributed $9.6 million to the increase in cost of sales. 30 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expense . The majority of the increase in selling, general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 , was due to the Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, NN Vandalia, and Technical Arts businesses which collectively contributed $12.5 million to selling, general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2018 . Infrastructure and staffing costs incurred related to our strategic initiatives, including integration of recent acquisitions and a global implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, also contributed to the increase . These increases were partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense in 2018 as compared to 2017. Acquisition Related Costs Excluded from Selling, General and Administrative . Acquisition related costs are primarily third party legal, accounting, valuation consulting and investment banking advisory fees incurred in connection with the Life Sciences acquisitions. Depreciation and Amortization . The increase in depreciation and amortization during the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 , was consistent with additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, including $16.1 million from the Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, NN Vandalia, and Technical Arts businesses. This additional depreciation and amortization expense includes the effects of related fair value adjustments to certain property, plant and equipment and the addition of intangible assets, principally for customer relationships and trade names. Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net . Other net operating expense in the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily resulted from impairment charges on property, plant and equipment of $5.2 million and a loss on the sale of property, plant and equipment of $0.6 million partially offset by a $0.7 million change in fair value of a contingent earnout liability associated with the Bridgemedica acquisition. Goodwill Impairment. The increase in goodwill impairment in the year ended December 31, 2018 was the result of goodwill impairment charges at Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions. See Note 8 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the impairment charges. Restructuring and Integration Expense. The increase in restructuring and integration expense was primarily due to employee severance costs incurred in connection with implementing our new enterprise and management structure. Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides more information regarding the effects of restructuring and integration on our operating results. Interest Expense . Interest expense increased by $9.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 , primarily due to interest on the Second Lien Facility, which was not in place during the year ended December 31, 2017 , and bore interest at a higher rate than our existing credit facility. This increase was partially offset by the redemption of our 10.25% Senior Notes due 2020 (the Senior Notes) on April 3, 2017, with the proceeds of our incremental term loan of an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 million (the Incremental Term Loan), which bears an interest rate based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable margin of 3.25%, which is lower than the 10.25% fixed interest rate on the Senior Notes. Additionally, LIBOR was higher in the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2017 . Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Interest on debt $ 56,977 $ 47,681 Amortization of debt issuance costs 4,845 4,296 Interest on capital leases and other 624 1,189 Capitalized interest (1,203 ) (1,081 ) Total interest expense $ 61,243 $ 52,085 Loss on Extinguishment of Debt and Write-off of Unamortized Debt Issuance Costs . The decrease in the loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs is primarily due to the $42.1 million write off in 2017 as the result of the extinguishment of the Senior Notes and modification of our credit facility offset by the $12.9 million write off in 2018 related to the Second Lien Facility. Additionally, we paid a two percent, or $4.0 million , prepayment penalty and wrote off $2.6 million of unamortized original issue discount when we paid the Second Lien Facility in full in September 2018. 31 Table of Contents Benefit for Income Taxes . Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 4.2% for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to 134.2% for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Note 11 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements describes the components of income taxes for each period presented. Share of Net Income from Joint Venture. The impact on our earnings from a Chinese joint venture in our Mobile Solutions group decreased primarily due to a partial impairment of the investment in the joint venture of $16.6 million as well as a decrease in the Companys share of net income from the joint venture of $3.0 million . The joint ventures net income decreased primarily due to price and volume decreases resulting from reduced demand in the Chinese automotive market and increased raw material costs. See Note 10 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the impairment charge. Results by Segment MOBILE SOLUTIONS Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 $ Change Net sales $ 335,037 $ 336,852 $ (1,815 ) Volume $ 4,300 Foreign exchange effects (1,327 ) Price/mix/inflation/other (4,788 ) Goodwill impairment (73,442 ) (73,442 ) Income from operations $ (54,103 ) $ 34,405 $ (88,508 ) Net sales decreased in 2018 from 2017 due to price reductions granted to our customers and the negative impact of shifts in foreign currency exchange rates during 2018. These effects were substantially offset by the benefit derived from our steering systems customers increasing their market share as the industry shifts from hydraulics to electric-assist steering systems technologies. Also, as the Brazilian economy improves, demand for automotive products improved during 2018. Income from operations decreased by $88.5 million compared to prior year primarily due to an impairment loss on goodwill of $73.4 million , which was recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the fourth quarter of 2018 . In addition, the decrease was due to higher start-up costs related to new product launches, lower customer pricing as noted above, and higher depreciation expense due to capital investments to support new product launches. These factors were partially offset by implementation of cost savings initiatives and the beneficial impact of higher production volumes. POWER SOLUTIONS Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 $ Change Net sales $ 189,778 $ 186,602 $ 3,176 Acquisitions $ 2,521 Volume 2,893 Foreign exchange effects (756 ) Price/mix/inflation/other (1,482 ) Goodwill impairment (109,100 ) (109,100 ) Income from operations $ (95,115 ) $ 23,440 $ (118,555 ) Net sales increased in 2018 from 2017 primarily due to growth in sales to customers in the electrical products end market. Sales from the Technical Arts business contributed $2.5 million to the current year. Income from operations decreased by $118.6 million primarily due to an impairment loss on goodwill of $109.1 million recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) during the fourth quarter of 2018 as well as a shift in product mix toward higher cost raw materials, such as precious metals used in power control products, and investments in the development of new products and manufacturing facilities to support growth in the aerospace end market. 32 Table of Contents LIFE SCIENCES Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 $ Change Net sales $ 248,173 $ 98,329 $ 149,844 Acquisitions $ 150,431 Volume 127 Foreign exchange effects Price/mix/inflation/other (714 ) Goodwill impairment Income from operations $ 19,136 $ 13,271 $ 5,865 Net sales increased during the year ended December 31, 2018 , from the year ended December 31, 2017 , primarily due to $150.4 million of net sales attributable to the 2018 acquisitions of Paragon Medical and Bridgemedica, and a full year of activity from the 2017 acquisition of NN Vandalia, as well as a $0.1 million increase in core volume. Income from operations increased by $5.9 million primarily due to $10.7 million contributed by the Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, and NN Vandalia acquisitions. This increase was partially offset by $2.6 million of increased operating expenses and $1.3 million of acquisition related restructuring and integration costs and other costs associated with establishing the Life Sciences Group. 33 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2017 , compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change Net sales $ 619,793 $ 584,954 $ 34,839 Acquisitions $ 6,682 Volume 25,944 Foreign exchange effects 1,956 Price/mix/inflation/other 257 Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 459,080 428,843 30,237 Acquisitions $ 6,204 Volume 17,704 Foreign exchange effects 1,796 Cost reduction projects (3,150 ) Inflation 2,506 Mix/other 5,177 Selling, general and administrative expense 74,112 64,144 9,968 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 344 344 Depreciation and amortization 52,406 50,721 1,685 Loss (gain) on disposal of assets 351 809 (458 ) Restructuring and integration expense 386 5,658 (5,272 ) Income from operations 33,114 34,779 (1,665 ) Interest expense 52,085 62,870 (10,785 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs 42,087 2,589 39,498 Derivative payments on interest rate swap 609 (609 ) Derivative loss (gain) on change in interest rate swap fair value (101 ) 2,448 (2,549 ) Other (income) expense, net (2,084 ) (2,871 ) 787 Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (58,873 ) (30,866 ) (28,007 ) Benefit for income taxes 79,026 15,438 63,588 Share of net income from joint venture 5,211 5,938 (727 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 25,364 (9,490 ) 34,854 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 137,688 16,153 121,535 Net income $ 163,052 $ 6,663 $ 156,389 Net Sales . Net sales increased by $34.8 million , or 6.0% , in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to increased volumes. The higher volumes were primarily due to demand improvements within the life sciences end market, the automotive end market, and the general industrial end market. Additionally, sales from the NN Vandalia business that we acquired on October 2, 2017, contributed $6.7 million to 2017 sales. Appreciation of the Chinese renminbi and the euro in relation to the U.S. dollar in 2017 also increased net sales year over year. Cost of Sales. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the increase in demand and production volumes as well as changes in product mix and start-up costs for certain new products. Cost of sales for NN Vandalia contributed $6.2 million to the 2017 increase, which includes a one-time $0.9 million impact to cost of sales related to inventory valuation as part of purchase accounting. Increases were partially offset by cost savings from production process improvement projects. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. The increase in selling, general and administrative expense during 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to infrastructure and staffing costs incurred related to our strategic initiatives, including a global implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. 34 Table of Contents Acquisition Related Costs Excluded from Selling, General and Administrative. Acquisition related costs are primarily third party legal, accounting, valuation consulting, and investment banking advisory fees incurred directly related to the NN Vandalia acquisition in 2017 . Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in depreciation and amortization in 2017 was primarily due to additions to property, plant and equipment. The increase was partially offset by a decrease of $2.5 million related to amortization in 2016 of backlog and unfavorable leasehold intangible assets acquired with the PEP Acquisition. These intangible assets became fully amortized in the first quarter of 2016. The NN Vandalia acquisition contributed $0.6 million of depreciation and amortization expense to 2017. The NN Vandalia depreciation and amortization includes the related step-ups of certain property, plant and equipment to fair value and the addition of intangible assets principally for customer relationships and trade names. Restructuring and Integration Expense. The decrease in restructuring and integration expense was primarily due to limited spending on site closure costs in 2017 compared to $4.3 million of cost incurred in 2016 to close a plant in Wheeling, Illinois, in our Autocam Precision Components Group. Interest Expense . Interest expense decreased by $10.8 million in 2017 due to the redemption of the Senior Notes on April 3, 2017, with the proceeds of the Incremental Term Loan, which bears a lower interest rate based on LIBOR. Further interest savings resulted from the refinancing of the Senior Secured Term Loan and Senior Secured Revolver in the third quarter of 2016 and further refinancing of the Senior Secured Term Loan and the Incremental Term Loan on November 24, 2017. Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Interest on debt $ 47,681 $ 57,519 Interest rate swaps settlements 1,393 Amortization of debt issuance costs 4,296 4,168 Interest on capital leases and other 1,189 1,379 Capitalized interest (1,081 ) (1,589 ) Total interest expense $ 52,085 $ 62,870 Loss on Extinguishment of Debt and Write-off of Unamortized Debt Issuance Costs . The increase in loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs is primarily due to the $42.1 million write off in 2017 as a result of the extinguishment of the Senior Notes and modification and subsequent refinancing of our credit facility offset by the $2.6 million write off in 2016 related to debt restructurings that occurred during 2016. Derivative Loss (Gain) on Change in Interest Rate Swap Fair Value. During the third quarter of 2016, we chose to discontinue hedge accounting. As a result, all amounts of accumulated other comprehensive income were reclassified to earnings. Benefit for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 134.2% in 2017 compared to 50.0% for 2016. Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the components of income taxes for each period presented. Income from Continuing Operations. Benefit for income taxes increased by $63.6 million primarily as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Income from operations of $33.1 million for 2017 was more than offset by the loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance cost and interest expense. Also, acquisition related costs accounted for a $0.3 million reduction in income from operations as compared to 2016. The $10.8 million reduction in interest expense also contributed to income from continuing operations. Significant components of the changes in income from operations and interest expense were presented in the preceding paragraphs. Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The largest component of income from discontinued operations in 2017 was the $127.7 million gain on sale of our PBC Business, net of tax. Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides details of the results of discontinued operations. 35 Table of Contents Results by Segment MOBILE SOLUTIONS Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change Net sales $ 336,852 $ 326,138 $ 10,714 Volume $ 9,963 Foreign exchange effects 2,213 Price/mix/inflation/other (1,462 ) Income from operations 34,405 29,490 4,915 Net sales increased in 2017 from 2016 due to industrial market demand improvements in the US and China and new automotive program launches in the US, China and Brazil. We are realizing the indirect benefits of our customers taking an increasing portion of market share. Also, as the Brazilian economy rebounds, demand for automotive products is increasing. The increase in net sales contributed to the increase in income from operations. Cost reduction projects resulted in savings in cost of sales of approximately $1.6 million in 2017 compared to 2016. Restructuring costs decreased by $4.0 million, primarily related to the closure of a plant in Wheeling, Illinois. These factors that increased income from operations were slightly offset by start-up costs for new products and a $2.3 million increase in depreciation and amortization consistent with recent capital expenditure activity. POWER SOLUTIONS Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change Net sales $ 186,602 $ 180,330 $ 6,272 Acquisitions $ Volume 5,759 Foreign exchange effects (257 ) Price/mix/inflation/other 770 Income from operations 23,440 24,060 (620 ) Net sales increased in 2017 from 2016 primarily due to the overall improvement in demand across the power solutions end market and sales to new customers within the aerospace and defense market. We have also benefited from the introduction of new products for the aerospace and defense end market. Income from operations decreased by $0.6 million primarily due to a shift in product mix toward higher cost raw materials and new program setup costs for certain products sold into the aerospace and defense end market. 36 Table of Contents LIFE SCIENCES Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change Net sales $ 98,329 $ 80,057 $ 18,272 Acquisitions $ 6,682 Volume 10,222 Foreign exchange effects Price/mix/inflation/other 1,368 Income from operations 13,271 9,840 3,431 Net sales increased in 2017 from 2016 primarily due to the overall improvement in demand across the life sciences end market and increases in market share for certain medical devices. Sales from the NN Vandalia business acquired on October 2, 2017, contributed $6.7 million to 2017 sales. Income from operations increased by $3.4 million primarily due to the increase in sales associated with the acquisition of NN Vandalia on October 2, 2017 offset by increase in operating expenses. Changes in Financial Condition from December 31, 2017 , to December 31, 2018 From December 31, 2017 , to December 31, 2018 , total assets increased by $26.6 million primarily due to assets acquired with the Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, and Technical Arts businesses which had $475.6 million of total assets as of December 31, 2018 . Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, and Technical Arts contributed $172.7 million to goodwill and $171.1 million to intangible assets. Overall, accounts receivable increased consistently with sales growth. Inventories increased as our plants satisfy customer demand. Days inventory outstanding increased by approximately 4 days as our businesses ramp up manufacturing activity to meet expected customer demand on a timely basis and due to managing procurement based on market price projections. Partially offsetting these increases was a $206.5 million decrease in cash to fund the Paragon Medical and Bridgemedica acquisitions as well as impairment of goodwill at Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions of $73.4 million and $109.1 million , respectively. From December 31, 2017 , to December 31, 2018 , total liabilities increased by $94.4 million , primarily related to debt used to fund operations and capital expenditures and deferred tax liabilities associated with Paragon Medical. Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, and Technical Arts contributed $58.9 million to the increase in total liabilities. Working capital, which consists principally of cash, accounts receivable, inventories, and other current assets offset by accounts payable, accrued payroll costs, income taxes payable, current maturities of long-term debt, and other current liabilities, was $151.8 million as of December 31, 2018 , compared to $368.9 million as of December 31, 2017 . The decrease in working capital was due primarily to the decrease in cash used to fund acquisitions and capital expenditures. Cash provided by operations was $40.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared with cash used by operations of $28.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The difference was primarily due to the impact of acquisition activities as well as the overpayment of income taxes associated with the sale of the PBC business in 2017, which was refunded to us in 2018, and higher interest payments. Additionally, cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations included $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase was partially offset by an increase in inventory levels. Cash used by investing activities was $461.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared with cash provided by investing activities of $282.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The difference was primarily due to $399.0 million of cash paid for the Paragon Medical, Bridgemedica, and Technical Arts acquisitions in 2018 compared to $371.4 million of cash received for the sale of the PBC Business in 2017 . Cash used by investing activities for discontinued operations was $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and $11.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Cash provided by financing activities was $215.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared with cash used by financing activities of $45.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . The difference was primarily due to net proceeds from the sale of 14.4 million shares of our common stock on September 18, 2018. 37 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Aggregate principal amounts outstanding under our Senior Secured Term Loan, Incremental Term Loan, and Senior Secured Revolver as of December 31, 2018 , were $849.8 million (without regard to unamortized debt issuance costs). As of December 31, 2018 , we had unused borrowing capacity of $76.6 million under the Senior Secured Revolver, subject to certain limitations. This amount of availability is net of $9.7 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2018 , which are considered as usage of the Senior Secured Revolver. Collectively, our Senior Secured Term Loan, Incremental Term Loan, and Senior Secured Revolver comprise our credit facility. Principal available under the Senior Secured Revolver was $125.0 million as of December 31, 2018 . Available principal may be restored to $143.0 million upon the achievement of certain requirements. Our credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants based on a consolidated net leverage ratio, as defined in the credit facility agreement. The financial covenants are effective when we have outstanding amounts drawn on our Senior Secured Revolver on the last day of any fiscal quarter and become more restrictive over time. We had a $38.7 million outstanding balance on the Senior Secured Revolver as of December 31, 2018 , and we were in compliance with all covenants under our credit facility. The Senior Secured Revolver matures on October 19, 2020. The Senior Secured Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of $1.4 million through October 19, 2022 , with the remaining principal amount due on the maturity date. If one-month LIBOR is less than 0.75% , then we pay 4.50% per annum in interest. If one-month LIBOR exceeds 0.75% , then we pay the variable one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 3.75% . Based on the outstanding balance and interest rate in effect at December 31, 2018 , annual interest payments would have been $33.3 million . The Incremental Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of $3.0 million through April 3, 2021 , with the remaining principal amount due on the maturity date. The Incremental Term Loan bears interest at the variable one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 3.25% . Based on the outstanding balance and interest rate in effect at December 31, 2018 , annual interest payments would have been $16.1 million . The Senior Secured Revolver bears interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 3.50% . Based on the outstanding balance and interest rate in effect at December 31, 2018 , annual interest payments would have been $2.3 million . We pay a quarterly commitment fee at an annual rate of 0.50% on the Senior Secured Revolver for unused capacity. In connection with the closing of Paragon Medical on May 7, 2018 , we amended our existing credit facility to permit the acquisition of Paragon Medical, to permit the addition of the Second Lien Facility, and to amend certain covenants. We entered into the $200.0 million Second Lien Facility on May 7, 2018 , to partially fund the acquisition of Paragon Medical. The Second Lien Facility bore interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 8.00% . We voluntarily prepaid in full the $200.0 million outstanding principal balance with proceeds from the sale of shares of our common stock on September 18, 2018 . We paid a prepayment penalty of two percent of the outstanding balance, or $4.0 million , and wrote off $2.6 million of unamortized debt issuance costs. We paid interest of $7.5 million for the period from May 7, 2018 through September 18, 2018 . On September 18, 2018 , we issued 14.4 million shares of our common stock in a registered public offering. Net proceeds of approximately $217.3 million were used to repay the Second Lien Facility and a portion of the Senior Secured Revolver. On February 8, 2019, the Company entered into a fixed-rate interest swap agreement. Refer to