Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report and in any of the Companys subsequent filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of this Annual Report, and the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or review any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, except as required by law. New risks and uncertainties may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for the Company to predict their occurrence or how they will affect the Company. The Company qualifies all forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Introduction NN, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a diversified industrial company that combines advanced engineering and production capabilities with in-depth materials science expertise to design and manufacture high-precision components and assemblies for a variety of end markets on a global basis. As used in this Annual Report, the terms the Company, we, our, or us refer to NN, Inc. and its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2024, we had 26 facilities in North America, South America, Europe, and China. Our enterprise and management structure is designed to accelerate growth and further balance our portfolio by aligning our strategic assets and businesses. Our businesses are organized into the Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions groups and are based principally on the end markets they serve. Business Segments and Products Mobile Solutions Mobile Solutions is focused on growth in the automotive, general industrial, and medical end markets. We have developed an expertise in manufacturing highly complex, tight tolerance, system critical components. Our technical capabilities can be utilized in numerous applications including for use in battery electric, hybrid electric, and internal combustion engine vehicles. The group currently manufactures components on a high-volume basis for use in power steering, braking, transmissions, and gasoline fuel system applications, along with components utilized in heating, ventilation and air conditioning and diesel injection and diesel emissions treatment applications. This expertise has been gained through investment in technical capabilities, processes and systems, and allows us to provide skilled program management and product launch capabilities. Power Solutions Power Solutions is focused on growth in the electrical, general industrial, automotive, and medical end markets. Within this group we combine materials science expertise with advanced engineering and production capabilities to design and manufacture a broad range of high-precision metal components, assemblies, and finished devices used in applications ranging from power control to transportation electrification. We manufacture a variety of products including electrical contacts, connectors, contact assemblies, and precision stampings for the electrical end market and high precision products for the aerospace and defense end market utilizing our extensive process technologies. Our medical business includes the production of a variety of tools and instruments for the orthopedics and medical/surgical end markets. Competitive Strengths High-precision manufacturing capabilities We believe our ability to produce high-precision parts at high production volumes is among the best in the market. Our technology platform consists of high precision machining, progressive stamping, laser welding, material science, assembly, and design optimization. In-house tool design and process know-how create trade secrets that enable consistent production tolerances of less than one micron while producing millions of parts per day. Parts are manufactured to application-specific customer design and co-design standards that are developed for a specific use. The high-precision capabilities are part of our zero-defect design process, which seeks to eliminate variability and manufacturing defects throughout the entire product lifecycle. We believe our production capabilities provide a competitive advantage as few other manufacturers are capable of meeting tolerance demands at any volume level requested by our customers. As the need for tight-tolerance precision parts, subassemblies, and devices continues to increase, we believe that our production capabilities will place us at the forefront of the industry. We have differentiated ourselves among our competitors by providing customers engineered solutions and a broad reach and breadth of manufacturing capabilities. We believe it is for these reasons, and because of our proven ability to produce high-quality, precision parts and components on a cost-effective basis, that customers choose us to meet their manufacturing needs. Differentiated, system-critical products The tight-tolerance and high-quality nature of our precision products is specifically suited for use in the most demanding applications that require superior reliability. Our products are critical components to the operation and reliability of larger mechanical and electrical systems. Precision parts are difficult to manufacture and the high cost of failure motivates our customers to focus on quality. Our products are developed for specific uses within critical systems and are typically designed in conjunction with the system designer. Our parts are often qualified for, or specified in, customer designs, reducing the ability for customers to change suppliers. Our ability to make products with tight-tolerance and extreme precision requirements enables our customers to satisfy the critical functionality and performance requirements of their products. We are included in customer designs and deployed in 5 Table of Contents critical systems that involve high cost of failure applications and significant regulatory certification processes, including those for the Underwriters Laboratories. Complete product lifecycle focus Our engineering expertise and deep knowledge of precision manufacturing processes adds proprietary value throughout the complete lifecycle of our products. Our in-house engineering team works closely with our customers to provide parts that meet specific design specifications for a given application. The relationship with the customer begins early in the conceptual design process when we provide feedback on potential cost, manufacturability, and estimated reliability of the parts. Part designs are then prototyped, tested, and qualified in coordination with the customer design process before going to full-scale production. The close working relationship with our customers early in the product lifecycle helps to secure business, increase industry knowledge, and develop significant trade secrets. Performance verification, product troubleshooting, and post-production engineering services further deepen relationships with our customers as well as provide additional industry knowledge that is applicable to future design programs and provide continuous manufacturing process improvement. Prototype products are developed for testing, and process validation procedures are instituted. In certain instances, we will file for regulatory production approval and include the customers proprietary processes, further reducing supplier changes. We will assist the customer with continuous supply chain management and comprehensive customer support for the lifetime of the product and continuously seek to identify new operational efficiencies to reduce the products cost and improve its quality. Once our solution is designed into a platform, it is often embedded through the multi-year manufacturing lifecycle and has a competitive advantage in supporting subsequent platforms. As an added benefit, customers generally fund development, prototypes, and manufacturing tooling expenses. This discourages supplier changes and drives recurring revenue for us. Long-term blue-chip customer base We maintain relationships with hundreds of customers around the world. Our customers are typically sophisticated, engineering-driven, mechanical and electrical systems manufacturers with long histories of product development and reputations for quality. We have no significant retail exposure, which limits volatility and provides enhanced sales visibility. Relationships with many of our largest customers, in terms of revenue, average more than ten years. We have significant exposure to emerging markets in Asia, South America, and Europe through these global customers as well as key local manufacturers. The diverse nature, size, and reach of our customer base provides resistance to localized market and geographic fluctuations and helps stabilize overall product demand. Strategic global footprint Our 26 facilities, on four continents, are strategically located to serve our customer base and provide local service and expertise. Our global footprint provides flexibility to locally supply identical products for global customers, reducing shipping time and expense, allowing us to match costs to revenue and to capitalize on industry localization trends. In total, we operate more than 1.7 million square feet of manufacturing space. North America constitutes the largest portion of our manufacturing operations with facilities in the U.S. and Mexico which are strategically located to serve major customers in those markets. Our foreign facilities are located in regional manufacturing hubs in France, Poland, China, and Brazil, and primarily serve global customers in those markets. We believe that the Chinese and South American facilities have significant growth potential as local customer bases expand and the markets for high-precision products grow in those regions. Synergies We continue to realize synergy effects between Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions by pairing our experienced engineering resources and wide-ranging portfolio of process technologies from each business to serve our customers ever evolving needs. Recent solutions developed in the electrical, electric vehicle, and general industrial markets leveraged the deep experience and expertise from each business to respond to tight, stringent requirements - all of which in a custom and innovative manner to meet each customers unique demand requirements. In addition, we continue to experience customer demand that utilizes multiple facilities from both businesses on a global basis due to our track record of quality and strong performance. Customers Our products are supplied primarily to manufacturers for use in a broad range of industrial applications, including automotive; electrical; agricultural; construction; residential devices and equipment; aerospace and defense; medical; heating, ventilation, and air conditioning; and fluid power and diesel engines. Sales to each of our top ten customers are made to multiple customer locations and divisions throughout the world. In 2024, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 51% of our net sales. In 2024, 64% of our products were sold to customers in North America, 17% to customers in Asia, 10% to customers in South America, and 9% to customers in Europe. We sell our products to most of our largest customers under either sales contracts or agreed upon commercial terms. In general, we pass through material cost fluctuations when incurred to our customers in the form of changes in selling prices. We ordinarily ship our products directly to customers within 60 days, and in many cases, during the same calendar month of the date on which a sales order is placed. 6 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing A primary emphasis of our marketing strategy is to expand key customer relationships by offering high quality, high-precision, application-specific customer solutions with the value of a single supply chain partner for a wide variety of products and components. Due to the technical nature of many of our products, our engineers and manufacturing management personnel also provide technical sales support functions, while internal sales employees handle customer orders and other general sales support activities. Our marketing strategy is to offer custom manufactured, high quality, precision products to markets with high value-added characteristics at competitive price levels. This strategy focuses on relationships with key customers that require the production of technically difficult parts and assemblies, enabling us to take advantage of our strengths in custom product development, equipment and tool design, component assembly, and machining processes. Human Capital Management Core Principles Our success depends in part on our ability to successfully manage our human capital resources, including attracting, identifying, and retaining key talent. Factors that may affect our ability to attract and retain qualified employees include employee morale, our reputation, competition from other employers, and availability of qualified individuals in the communities in which we operate. Throughout our business, we foster an ethical, safe, and supportive workplace where our employees thrive. We believe an inclusive workplace results in business growth and encourages increased innovation, retention of talent, and a more engaged workforce. Respect for human rights is fundamental to our business and our commitment to ethical business conduct, as is embodied by our Human Rights Policy, which sets forth our expectations related to workplace discrimination; workplace conditions; and freedom of association. Headcount As of December 31, 2024, we employed approximately 2,600 full and part-time employees and 300 temporary workers, which includes approximately 1,000 employees in the U.S. and 1,900 employees in other countries employed by our international subsidiaries. Of our total employment, approximately 12% are management/staff employees and 88% are production employees. Our employees in the France, Brazil, and Mexico City plants are subject to labor council relationships that vary due to the diverse countries in which we operate. We believe we have a good working relationship with our employees and the labor council that represent them. Compensation, Benefits, and Employee Health and Safety Our compensation programs are based on a strong alignment between pay and performance, and are designed to reward both financial and operational successes and support actions that drive stockholder value creation at all organizational levels. We use a combination of programs (which vary by geography and level) to attract and retain our employees, including annual performance bonuses, periodic gainsharing bonuses, and equity awards. We also provide our employees and their families access to a range of benefits, including health insurance benefits, employer-paid life and disability insurance, health savings and flexible spending accounts, 401(k) match, vacation and paid time off, wellness offerings, education assistance, and an employee assistance program. The health and safety of our employees and anyone who conducts business on our behalf is very important to us. Our commitment to safety starts at the top levels of our organization. We believe a safe and secure workplace is fundamental to our success. We are also committed to engaging our employees to continually improve health and safety by acting upon opportunities to reduce risk and improve our safety and health performance. In addition, we offer training programs on a regular basis. We maintain comprehensive safety programs focused on identifying hazards and eliminating risks that can lead to work-place injuries. Talent Development We invest resources in professional development to improve employee motivation, performance and engagement. Our annual talent management program helps identify needs at multiple levels, enabling us to provide employees with the resources they need to help achieve their career goals, build skills and lead their organizations. Further, annual goal-setting and development opportunities for employees and leaders helps our people align their professional experience with the Companys business objectives and encourages them to take ownership of their development and career paths. We use regular talent management and performance evaluation processes to inform the Companys internal development processes and to calibrate assessment of individual performance organizationally. These activities form the basis for succession planning activities, up to and including the senior leadership level. 7 Table of Contents We also have apprenticeships, internships, and cooperative education programs in place at certain locations, which we intend to expand more broadly across the company. These programs allow us to provide a combination of education and employment options that deliver depth and context and help them build a long-term career path. Competition Mobile Solutions In the market in which Mobile Solutions operates, internal production of components by our customers can impact our business as the customers weigh the risk of outsourcing strategically critical components or producing in-house. Our primary competitors are: Anton Hring KG; A. Berger Holding GmbH & Co. KG; Brovedani Group, Burgmaier Technologies GmbH & Co. KG; CIE Automotive, S.A.; IMS Companies; and MacLean-Fogg Component Solutions. We believe that we generally win new business on the basis of our technical competence, proven track record of successful product development and global platform, as well as on quality, price, and service. Power Solutions Power Solutions operates in competitive but very fragmented supply chains. We must compete with numerous companies in each industry market segment. Our primary competitors are: Checon Corporation; Deringer-Ney, Inc.; Electrical Contacts, Ltd.; Interplex Industries, Inc.; J&J Machining, LLC; Norstan, Inc.; Owens Industries, Inc.; and Precinmac Precision Machining. We believe that competition within the electrical end market is based principally on quality, price, design capabilities, and speed of responsiveness and delivery. We believe that our competitive strengths are product development, tool design, fabrication, tight tolerance processes, and customer solutions. With these strengths, we have built our reputation in the marketplace as a quality producer of technically difficult products. Raw Materials Mobile Solutions Mobile Solutions produces products from a wide variety of metals in various forms from various sources located in North America, Europe, South America, and Asia. Basic types include hot rolled steel, cold rolled steel (both carbon and alloy), stainless steel, steel alloys, copper alloys, extruded aluminum, die cast aluminum, aluminum alloy bar, gray and ductile iron castings, hot and cold forgings, titanium alloys, plastics, and mechanical tubing. Some material is purchased directly under contracts, some is consigned by the customer, and some is purchased directly from the steel mills. Power Solutions Power Solutions uses a wide variety of metals in various forms, including precious metals like gold, silver, palladium, and platinum, as well as copper, copper alloys, brass, brass alloys, and plastics. Through our diverse network of suppliers, we minimize supplier concentration risk and provide a stable supply of raw materials at competitive pricing. This group also procures metal stampings from several domestic and foreign suppliers. Power Solutions bases purchase decisions on quality, service and price. Generally, we do not enter into long term supply contracts with our suppliers or commit to maintain minimum monthly purchases of materials. However, we carefully manage raw material price volatility, particularly with respect to precious metals, through the use of consignment agreements, which allow us to buy the precious metals on the same day customer shipments are priced, thereby minimizing risk of price changes from procurement to product shipment. Supply and Cost Pressures In each of our segments, we at times have been affected by upward price pressure on the raw materials we purchase due to changes in commodity pricing. In general, we pass through material cost fluctuations to our customers in the form of changes in selling price. Most of the raw materials we use are purchased from various suppliers and are typically available from numerous sources, some of which are located in China and Europe. Supply chain disruptions, resulting in supply shortages and higher shipping charges, have impacted our suppliers and could continue to impact our ability to maintain supplies of products and the costs associated with obtaining raw materials and key components. We continue to monitor impacts on our supply chain in order to maintain regular and timely supply of raw materials to our business segments. Patents, Trademarks and Licenses We have several U.S. patents, patent applications and trademarks for various trade names. However, we cannot be certain that we would be able to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties, and if we cannot do so, we may face increased competition and diminished net sales. Furthermore, third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on their patents or other intellectual property, and we may have to pay substantial damages and/or redesign our products if we are ultimately found to infringe. Even if such intellectual property claims against us are without merit, investigating and defending these types of lawsuits takes significant time, may be expensive and may divert management attention from other business concerns. 8 Table of Contents Additionally, we rely on certain data and processes, including trade secrets and know-how, and the success of our business depends, to some extent, on such information remaining confidential. Each officer is subject to a non-competition and confidentiality agreement that seeks to protect this information. Additionally, all employees are subject to company code of ethics policies that prohibit the disclosure of information critical to the operations of our business. Seasonal Nature of Business General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months as customers slow production, automotive sales tend to slow in July and December, and sales to original equipment manufacturers are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not materially impacted by seasonality. Government Regulations and Environmental Matters Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state, local, and foreign regulatory requirements, including those intended to protect public health and the environment. In the U.S. certain of our products and operations are regulated by the Environmental Protection Agency. Similar regulations have been adopted by authorities in foreign countries where we sell our products, and by state and local authorities in the U.S. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state, local, and foreign governmental authorities. We are also required to comply with increasingly complex and changing laws and regulations enacted to protect business and personal data in the U.S. and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, use, transmission, and protection of personal information and other customer, supplier or employee data. Such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, and the interpretation and enforcement of such laws and regulations, are continuously developing and evolving and there is significant uncertainty with respect to how compliance with these laws and regulations may evolve and the costs and complexity of future compliance. Based on information compiled to date, management believes that our current operations are in compliance with applicable governmental laws and regulations, the violation of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. As of the date hereof, compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations, and competitive position. For additional information, see Item 1A - Risk Factors. The potential impact of climate change on our operations is unclear. Climate change could result in an increase in severe weather events, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, blizzards and ice storms, which often results in delays or other negative consequences for our manufacturing operations, which could negatively impact our financial results. We have not identified any, and we do not believe there to be in the near term, material impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations as a result of compliance with legislation or regulatory rules regarding climate change or from the known physical effects of climate change. Increased regulation and other climate change concerns, however, could subject us to additional costs and restrictions and could negatively affect our business, operations and financial results. In May 2022, we released our inaugural Sustainability Report which established our global sustainability strategy. We conducted a comprehensive environmental, social and governance (ESG) materiality assessment to identify our most significant economic, environmental and social impacts. The material ESG topics identified during this process enable our organization to prioritize our investments and actions and provide meaningful disclosures. We continue to strengthen our focus towards providing meaningful disclosures through our sustainability reports (collectively, ESG Reports), which we publish on a periodic basis. Our ESG Reports identify specific actions that we have taken, and will continue to take, to address our ESG priorities. The information provided in our ESG Reports, as well as on our website, is not part of this Annual Report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report or other filings with the SEC. Information about our Executive Officers The following table lists our executive officers as of February 14, 2025: Name Age Position Harold C. Bevis 65 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Christopher H. Bohnert 58 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Timothy M. French 61 Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer D. Gail Nixon 54 Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Jami A. Statham 44 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Harold C. Bevis has served the Company as President, Chief Executive Officer and Director since May 2023. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bevis served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Commercial Vehicle Group, Inc. (CVGI), from 9 Table of Contents March 2020 to May 2023, and as a Director from June 2014 to May 2023. Mr. Bevis served as Chief Executive Officer of Boxlight Corporation from January 2020 to March 2020 and as a Director from March 2018 to March 2020. Previously, Mr. Bevis served as President of OmniMax International from October 2017 to February 2019 and President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Xerium Technologies, Inc. from August 2012 to April 2017. Christopher H. Bohnert was appointed Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in June 2024. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Bohnert served as advisor to the CEO and CFO at CVGI from September 2022 to June 2024 and as Chief Financial Officer of CVGI from October 2020 to September 2022. Previously, Mr. Bohnert served as Chief Accounting Officer at Calumet Specialty Products Partners, L.P. from October 2017 to August 2019 and as Chief Financial Officer of its Finished Lubricants & Chemicals business from August 2019 through October 2020. Timothy M. French has served the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since August 2023. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. French was President of Synergein Solutions Limited, which provides executive and C-suite level interim management and consulting services to manufacturing companies, from September 2018 to August 2023. Previously, Mr. French served as Chief Operating Officer at ProAmpac, a leading global flexible packaging company, from 2010 to 2018. D. Gail Nixon has served the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer since January 2018. Ms. Nixon joined the Company in 2007 and previously served as our Vice President of Human Resources as well as Corporate Human Resources Manager. Ms. Nixon is a member of the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) and has earned her Senior Professional in Human Resources and SHRM Senior Certified Professional designations. Jami A. Statham was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary in July 2024. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Statham served as Executive Director, Deputy General Counsel for Nexteer Automotive Corporation from July 2022 to July 2024, and as Assistant General Counsel from June 2019 to July 2022. Previously, she served as Senior Legal Counsel at Autoneum North America, Inc. from March 2017 to May 2019. Available Information - SEC Filings We make available free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our website (www.nninc.com), our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such material with, or furnishing it to, the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risks and uncertainties may have a material effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows, and should be considered in connection with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the events described below were to actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely affected, and results could differ materially from expected and historical results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing our company. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Operations We depend heavily on a relatively limited number of customers, and the loss of any major customer would have a material adverse effect on our business. During 2024, sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 51% of our consolidated net sales. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and would lower our operating profit margin and cash flows from operations. Work stoppages or similar difficulties and unanticipated business disruptions could significantly disrupt our operations, reduce our revenues and materially affect our earnings. We have a complex network of suppliers, owned and leased manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. Factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as supply chain disruptions, weather, raw material shortages, natural disasters, fires or explosions, political unrest, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, including strikes at our suppliers, customers or end-users or public health crises could damage or disrupt our operations or our customers, suppliers, co-manufacturers or distributors operations. These disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. If we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or if we are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. If that occurs, our customers confidence in us and long-term demand for our products 10 Table of Contents could decline. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We operate in and sell products to customers outside the U.S. and are subject to several risks related to doing business internationally. We obtain a substantial portion of our raw materials from overseas suppliers, actively participate in overseas manufacturing operations, and sell to a large number of international customers. During the year ended December 31, 2024, sales to customers located outside of the U.S. accounted for 43% of our consolidated net sales. As a result of doing business internationally, we face risks associated with the following: changes in tariff regulations, which may make our products more costly to export or import; changes in monetary and fiscal policies, laws and regulations, and other activities of governments, agencies and similar organizations; recessions or marked declines specific to a particular country or region; the potential imposition of trade restrictions or prohibitions; the potential imposition of import tariffs or other duties or taxes; difficulties establishing and maintaining relationships with local original equipment manufacturers, distributors and dealers; difficulty in staffing and managing geographically diverse operations; compliance with respect to anti-bribery, competition, export and import, trade sanctions, data privacy, environmental, human rights and other laws; political uncertainty, instability, civil unrest, government controls over certain sectors and human rights concerns in countries, including but not limited to, China, in which our suppliers, manufacturing operations, and customers are located; and changes in the geopolitical environment, wars, conflicts, or trade barriers or blockades in the European Union and Asia, which may adversely affect business activity and economic conditions globally and could continue to contribute to instability in global financial and foreign exchange markets, as well as disrupt the free movement of goods, services, and people between countries. These and other risks may also increase the relative price of our products compared to those manufactured in other countries, thereby reducing the demand for our products in the markets in which we operate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the FCPA) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws, as well as export controls, which may include International Traffic in Arms Regulation and Export Administration Regulations, and economic sanction laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal