Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Despite our high indebtedness level, we will still be able to incur substantial additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt agreements contain various incurrence covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These incurrence covenants will limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt or make other restricted payments; make certain investments and acquisitions; create certain liens; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to us; consolidate, merge, sell, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; alter our existing businesses; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the incurrence covenants in our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements and permit our lenders to cease making loans to us under our credit facility (as defined below) or to accelerate the maturity date of the indebtedness incurred thereunder. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our secured debt agreements, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure our borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could also cause cross defaults under our other debt agreements. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to refinance our debt obligations as they mature. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. 14 Table of Contents We regularly review our capital structure, various financing alternatives and conditions in the debt and equity markets in order to opportunistically enhance our capital structure. In connection therewith, we may seek to refinance or retire existing indebtedness, incur new or additional indebtedness or issue equity or equity-linked securities, in each case, depending on market and other conditions. As our debt obligations mature or if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of our existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation. Approximately 28% of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, which may result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. In 2019 , the U.S. dollar strengthened against foreign currencies which unfavorably affected our revenue by $8.4 million . In contrast, a weakening of the U.S. dollar may beneficially affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations and may decline. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: macro or micro-economic factors; our operating and financial performance and prospects; quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; loss of any member of our senior management team; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; sales of our common stock by stockholders; general market conditions; domestic and international economic, legal, and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; loss of a major customer; and the declaration and payment of a dividend. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, due to the market capitalization of our stock, our stock tends to be more volatile than large capitalization stocks that comprise the Dow Jones Industrial Average or Standard and Poors 500 Index. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable and may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, a classified board of directors and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to five million preferred shares without a stockholder vote. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call a special meeting. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Generally, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. We anticipate that the provisions of 15 Table of Contents Section 203 may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions may constitute an important part of our future growth strategy. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and may continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We regularly evaluate acquisition transactions, sign non-disclosure agreements, and participate in processes with respect to acquisitions, some of which may be material to us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. In addition, we may borrow funds or issue equity to acquire other businesses, increasing our interest expense and debt levels or diluting our existing stockholders ownership interest in us. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to complete acquisitions without prior approval of our lenders. We have had difficulty with purchase accounting and other aspects related to the accounting for our acquisitions which resulted in material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we have remediated these material weaknesses, there can be no assurances we will not face similar issues with respect to any future acquisitions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We either may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or it may take longer to realize such benefits. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient, and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired businesses into our existing businesses. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude the realization of the full anticipated benefits. The difficulties of combining the operations of acquired companies include, among others: the diversion of managements attention to integration matters; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including, without limitation, the complexities associated with managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company, addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks, and other assets of each of the acquired companies; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the acquired businesses with our own; the inability to implement effective internal controls, procedures, and policies for acquired businesses as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 within the time periods prescribed thereby; the exposure to potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with acquired businesses; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, ongoing operations or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy, which could materially impact our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, we incurred a significant amount of debt in connection with our acquisitions in the past few years. Finally, in relation to such acquisitions, we have significantly higher amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. These intangible assets will be subject to impairment testing, and we could incur a significant impact to our financial statements in the form of an impairment if assumptions and expectations related to our acquisitions are not realized. We have and will continue to incur expenses related to our acquisitions and the integration of our acquired companies. We have and will continue to incur expenses related to our acquisitions and the integration of our acquired companies. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their 16 Table of Contents nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These integration expenses may result in us taking charges against earnings, and the amount of any future charges are uncertain at present. We may be unable to realize the anticipated cost or capital expenditure savings or may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the anticipated cost or capital expenditure savings from our acquisitions in the anticipated amounts or within the anticipated timeframes or at all. With respect to each acquisition, we anticipate implementing a series of cost savings initiatives that we expect to result in recurring, annual run-rate cost savings. These or any other cost or capital expenditure savings that we realize may differ materially from our estimates. We cannot provide assurances that these anticipated savings will be achieved or that our programs and improvements will be completed as anticipated or at all. In addition, any cost savings that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in revenues or through increases in other expenses. Our projections and assumptions related to cost savings are based on our current estimates, but they involve risks, uncertainties, projections, and other factors that may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements, express or implied. Neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent auditors, have examined, compiled or performed any procedures with respect to these projections, nor have they expressed any opinion, or any other form of assurance on such information or their achievability. Assumptions relating to our projections involve subjective decisions and judgments with respect to, among other things, the estimated impact of certain operational adjustments, including Six Sigma/OpEx optimization programs, product grouping and rationalization, facility rationalization and shared services cost savings, and other cost and savings adjustments, as well as future economic, competitive, industry and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are inherently uncertain and may be beyond the control of our management. Failure to realize the expected costs savings and operating synergies related to our acquisitions could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our future results could suffer if we cannot effectively manage our expanded operations, which are significantly larger and more complex following our acquisitions. As a result of our acquisitions over the past few years, the size and scope of our operations were significantly increased. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage the expanded operations, which will pose challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We may not have the expertise, experience and resources to pursue or successfully operate all of our businesses at once. The administration of our businesses requires implementation and oversight of appropriate operations, management, compliance and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties in effectively implementing and overseeing these and other systems. Such implementation and initial oversight will require the focused attention of our management team, including a significant commitment of its time and resources. The need for management to focus on these matters could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues and operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from our acquisitions. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements from past acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited in amount and duration and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. Our participation in joint ventures could expose us to additional risks from time to time. We currently have a 49% investment in a Chinese joint venture and may participate in additional joint ventures from time to time. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms, and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited; 17 Table of Contents our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. Any divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business and retained liabilities from businesses that we may sell could adversely affect our financial results. As part of our portfolio management process, we review our operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with our strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs, disputes with buyers, or potential impairment charges. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had previously anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are also subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, lease payments, product liability claims, or environmental matters. Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect future financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of December 31, 2019 , we owned or leased 50 facilities in a total of seven countries, which includes a 49% equity interest in a manufacturing joint venture in China. Utilization of these sites may vary with product mix and economic, seasonal, and other business conditions. Our plants generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and expected near-term growth. These plants are generally well maintained, in good operating condition, and suitable and adequate for their use. The following table lists the locations of our facilities by segment. Life Sciences Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Aurora, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Leased Bridgeport, Connecticut Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Bridgeport, Connecticut Plant 2 U.S.A. Owned Changzhou Plant China Leased East Providence, Rhode Island Plant U.S.A. Leased Hatfield, Pennsylvania Plant U.S.A. Leased Indianapolis, Indiana Plant U.S.A. Leased Lausanne Office Switzerland Leased Mansfield, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Mansfield, Massachusetts Warehouse U.S.A. Leased Pierceton, Indiana Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Pierceton, Indiana Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Siechnice Plant Poland Owned Smithfield, Utah Plant U.S.A. Leased Vandalia, Ohio Plant U.S.A. Leased Wallingford, Connecticut Plant U.S.A. Leased Warsaw, Indiana Plant U.S.A. Leased 18 Table of Contents Mobile Solutions Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Boituva Plant Brazil Leased Campinas Office Brazil Leased Dowagiac, Michigan Plant U.S.A. Owned Juarez Plant Mexico Leased Kamienna Gora Plant Poland Owned Kentwood, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 3, Warehouse U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Office U.S.A. Owned Marnaz Plant France Owned Marshall, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Marshall, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista Plant 1 Brazil Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista Plant 2 Brazil Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Wuxi Plant China Leased Power Solutions Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Algonquin, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 3 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Office U.S.A. Leased Fairfield, Ohio Plant U.S.A. Owned Foshan City Plant China Leased Franklin, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Hingham, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Irvine, California Plant U.S.A. Leased Lubbock, Texas Plant U.S.A. Owned Mexico City Plant Mexico Owned North Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Owned Palmer, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Joint Venture Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Wuxi Plant China Leased In addition to these manufacturing plants, we lease an office building in Charlotte, North Carolina, which serves as our corporate headquarters. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Brazil ICMS Tax Matter Prior to the acquisition of Autocam in 2014, Autocams Brazilian subsidiary (Autocam Brazil) received notification from the Brazilian tax authority regarding ICMS (state value added tax or VAT) tax credits claimed on intermediary materials (e.g., tooling and perishable items) used in the manufacturing process. The Brazilian tax authority notification disallowed state ICMS tax credits claimed on intermediary materials based on the argument that these items are not intrinsically related to the manufacturing process. Autocam Brazil filed an administrative defense with the Brazilian tax authority arguing, among other 19 Table of Contents matters, that it should qualify for an ICMS tax credit, contending that the intermediary materials are directly related to the manufacturing process. We believe that we have substantial legal and factual defenses, and we plan to defend our interests in this matter vigorously. The matter encompasses several lawsuits filed with Brazilian courts requesting declaratory actions that no tax is due or seeking a stay of execution on the collection of the tax. In 2018, we obtained a favorable decision in one of the declaratory actions for which the period for appeal has expired. We have filed actions in each court requesting dismissal of the matter based on the earlier court action. Although we anticipate a favorable resolution to all matters, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in achieving dismissal of all pending cases. While we believe a loss is not probable, we estimate the range of possible losses related to this assessment is from $0 to $6.0 million . No amount was accrued at December 31, 2019 , for this matter. We are entitled to indemnification from the former shareholders of Autocam, subject to the limitations and procedures set forth in the agreement and plan of merger relating to the Autocam acquisition. Management believes the indemnification would include amounts owed for the tax, interest, and penalties related to this matter. Securities Offering Matter On November 1, 2019, Erie County Employees Retirement System, on behalf of a purported class of plaintiffs, filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York, against the Company, certain of the Companys current and former officers and directors, and each of the underwriters involved in the Companys public offering and sale of 14.4 million shares of its common stock pursuant to a preliminary prospectus supplement, dated September 10, 2018, a final prospectus supplement, dated September 13, 2018, and a base prospectus, dated April 19, 2017, relating to the Companys effective shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-216737) (the Offering), which complaint was amended on January 24, 2020. The complaint alleges violations of Sections 11, 12(a)(2), and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with the Offering. The plaintiffs seek to represent a class of stockholders who purchased shares of the Companys common stock in the Offering. The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages and other relief. The Company believes the complaint and allegations to be without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself against these actions. The Company is unable at this time to determine whether the outcome of the litigation would have a material impact on the Companys financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. All Other Legal Matters All other legal proceedings are of an ordinary and routine nature and are incidental to our operations. Management believes that such proceedings should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In making that determination, we analyze the facts and circumstances of each case at least quarterly in consultation with our attorneys and determine a range of reasonably possible outcomes. The procedures performed include reviewing attorney and plaintiff correspondence, reviewing any filings made and discussing the facts of the case with local management and legal counsel. We have not recognized any material loss contingencies at December 31, 2019 , or at December 31, 2018 . Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq under the trading symbol NNBR . As of March 6, 2020 , there were approximately 6,944 beneficial owners of record of our common stock, and the closing per share stock price as reported by Nasdaq was $6.43 . The following graph and table compare the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total shareholder return of: (i) the S&P SmallCap 600 Index and (ii) a customized peer group, for the period from December 31, 2014 , to December 31, 2019 . The customized peer group consists of the following companies, which we believe are in similar lines of business: Altra Industrial Motion Corp., Ametek Inc., CIRCOR International, Inc., Colfax Corporation, Crane, Enerpac Tool Group Corp, Kaman Corporation, Park-Ohio Holdings Corp. and Worthington Industries, Inc. (collectively, the Peer Group). The following graph and table assume that a $100 investment was made at the close of trading on December 31, 2014 , in our common stock and in the S&P SmallCap Index and the Peer Group. We cannot assure you that the performance of our common stock will continue in the future with the same or similar trend depicted on the graph. 20 Table of Contents Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return NN, Inc. , Peer Group, and S&P SmallCap 600 Index (Performance results through 12/31/2019 ) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NN, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 78.47 $ 95.48 $ 139.88 $ 34.67 $ 48.99 Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 84.96 $ 99.66 $ 125.83 $ 103.12 $ 147.11 S&P SmallCap 600 $ 100.00 $ 98.03 $ 124.07 $ 140.48 $ 128.57 $ 157.86 Source: Value Line Publishing LLC The declaration and payment of dividends are subject to the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, credit agreement restrictions, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. See Part III, Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this Annual Report for information required by Item 201 (d) of Regulation S-K. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data has been derived from our audited financial statements. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the Notes thereto, in Item 8. Certain amounts in 2018 and 2017 have been revised for the correction of misstatements described in Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. 21 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 847,451 $ 770,657 $ 619,793 $ 584,954 $ 405,443 Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 641,639 589,181 460,414 428,843 320,632 Goodwill impairment 182,542 Income (loss) from operations 9,889 (179,864 ) 31,780 34,779 58 Income (loss) from continuing operations (46,741 ) (262,987 ) 24,549 (9,490 ) (24,375 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 137,688 16,153 17,889 Income (loss) from continuing operations per common share, basic $ (1.13 ) $ (8.30 ) $ 0.89 $ (0.35 ) $ (1.15 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations per common share, diluted $ (1.13 ) $ (8.30 ) $ 0.89 $ (0.35 ) $ (1.15 ) Cash dividends declared per common share $ 0.21 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 As of December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 (1) 2015 (1) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets $ 302,980 $ 296,203 $ 475,986 $ 282,328 $ 283,910 Current liabilities 139,481 145,030 108,421 140,241 132,491 Total assets 1,541,984 1,500,902 1,473,709 1,358,274 1,388,337 Long-term obligations 769,477 817,549 792,499 788,953 802,011 Convertible preferred stock 93,012 Stockholders equity 353,277 419,271 485,329 309,391 312,431 _______________________________ (1) Current assets of discontinued operations were $106.7 million , and $98.9 million as of December 31, 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. Current liabilities of discontinued operations were $45.2 million , and $44.6 million as of December 31, 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. Total assets of discontinued operations were $210.7 million , and $204.4 million as of December 31, 2016 , and 2015 , respectively. During 2019, we adopted new lease accounting guidance that requires operating leases to be included on the balance sheet. As a result of this new guidance, $65.5 million of operating lease right-of-use assets and $67.0 million of non-current operating lease liabilities are included in total assets and long-term obligations, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, we issued convertible preferred stock in December 2019 and used the net cash proceeds of $95.7 million to pay down debt and to pay debt amendment costs. During 2018 , we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $182.5 million as described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements and issued shares of common stock in a public offering as described in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Additionally, acquisitions made in 2018 and 2017 contributed $153.0 million to the increase in net sales and $10.4 million additional income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 , compared to the prior year. During 2017, we completed the sale of our global precision bearing components business (the PBC Business) and recorded an after-tax gain on sale of $127.7 million as described Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Also during 2017 , we acquired DRT Medical, subsequently renamed NN Life Sciences - Vandalia, LLC, which contributed $30.7 million to net sales and $1.5 million to income from operations during the year ended December 31, 2018 , and $6.7 million to net sales and $0.5 million to loss from operations during the year ended December 31, 2017 , as described in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2016, we recognized an increase in net sales of $174.2 million and increase in income from operations of $38.5 million primarily due to the acquisition of our former Precision Engineered Products Group. During 2015, we acquired two businesses, including our former Precision Engineered Products group, which contributed $40.7 million to net sales and $5.1 million to loss from operations during the year ended December 31, 2015. Also during 2015, we issued shares of common shares in a public offering with net proceeds used for repayment of principal and interest on existing debt. 22 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Historical operating results and percentage relationships among any amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. Unless otherwise noted herein, all amounts are in thousands, except per share numbers. Overview and Management Focus Our strategy and management focus are based upon the following long-term objectives Organic growth within all our segments; Improved operating margins Cost reduction Efficient capital deployment Reduced overall debt and debt leverage ratio improvement Capital management initiatives Management generally focuses on these trends and relevant market indicators Global industrial growth and economics; Residential and non-residential construction rates; Global automotive production rates; Surgery rates and U.S. healthcare spending; Costs subject to the global inflationary environment, including, but not limited to: Raw materials; Wages and benefits, including health care costs; Regulatory compliance; and Energy; Trends related to the geographic migration of competitive manufacturing; Regulatory environment for United States public companies and manufacturing companies; Currency and exchange rate movements and trends; Interest rate levels and expectations; and Changes in tariff regulations. Management generally focuses on the following key indicators of operating performance Sales growth; Cost of sales; Gross margin; Selling, general and administrative expense; Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; Return on invested capital; Income from operations and adjusted income from operations; Net income and adjusted net income; Leverage ratio Cash flow from operations and capital spending; Customer service reliability; External and internal quality indicators; and Employee development. 23 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies, including the assumptions and judgment underlying them, are disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . These policies have been consistently applied in all material respects and address such matters as revenue recognition, inventory valuation, and asset impairment recognition. Due to the estimation processes involved, management considers the following summarized accounting policies and their application to be critical to understanding our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that actual results will not significantly differ from the estimates used in these critical accounting policies. Business Combinations We allocate the total purchase price of tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the business combination date, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The purchase price allocation process requires us to use significant estimates and assumptions, including fair value estimates, as of the business combination date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired company. Our assumptions and estimates are also partially based on valuation models that incorporate projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans and are inherently uncertain. Valuations are performed by management or third-party valuation specialists under managements supervision. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, as appropriate, we may use one of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (including discounted cash flows, relief from royalty and excess earnings model), the market approach, or the replacement cost approach. Examples of significant estimates used to value certain intangible assets acquired include but are not limited to: sales volume, pricing, and future cash flows of the business overall; future expected cash flows from customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets, including future price levels, rates of increase in revenue, and appropriate attrition rate; the acquired companys brand and competitive position, royalty rate quantum, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to benefit the combined companys product portfolio; and cost of capital, risk-adjusted discount rates, and income tax rates. Different assumptions regarding projected performance and other factors associated with the acquired assets may affect the amount recorded under each type of asset and liability. The valuations of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, goodwill and deferred income tax liabilities depend heavily on assumptions. Subsequent assessment could result in future impairment charges. We refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained surrounding facts and circumstances existing at the acquisition date. Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and between annual tests if a triggering event occurs. The impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit level. An impairment charge is calculated based on a reporting units carrying amount in excess of its fair value (i.e., step 1 of the two-step impairment test). If the carrying value of the reporting unit including goodwill is less than fair value of the reporting unit, the goodwill is not considered impaired. Reporting units for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing are the same as our operating segments (Life Sciences, Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions). Based on the results of the quantitative measurement performed, which indicated a fair value in excess of carrying amount for each of our designated reporting units, we concluded there was no impairment of goodwill for the year ended December 31, 2019 . The fair value of the Power Solutions reporting unit exceeds the carrying value by approximately 5% as of the date of our annual impairment test. If our assessment of the relevant facts and circumstances changes, or the actual performance falls short of the expected results, impairment charges may be required. As noted above, it was determined under a quantitative assessment that there was no impairment of goodwill in 2019 . However, if we become aware of indicators of impairment in future periods, we may be required to perform an interim assessment for some or all of our reporting units before the next annual assessment. Examples of such indicators may include a decrease in expected net earnings, adverse equity market conditions, a decline in current market multiples, a decline in our common stock price, a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climates, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, or a more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of. In the event of significant adverse changes of the nature described above, we may have to recognize a non-cash impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Based on the closing sales price of a share of our common stock as of December 31, 2019 , our market capitalization exceeded the $353.3 million net book value of our stockholders equity. Subsequent to December 31, 2019 , our market capitalization declined to a level that is less than the net book value of our stockholders equity. A prolonged or significant decline in market capitalization could be an indicator of possible goodwill impairment. We will continue to monitor the market capitalization relative to net book value in subsequent periods. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Provision has been made for income taxes on unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries as these earnings are not deemed to be permanently reinvested. We recognize income tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold and accrue interest and potential penalties related to unrecognized income tax positions which are recorded as a component of the provision (benefit) for income taxes. The calculation of tax assets, liabilities, and expenses under U.S. GAAP is largely dependent on management judgment of the current and future deductibility and utilization of taxable expenses and benefits using a more likely than not threshold. Specifically, the realization of deferred tax assets and the certainty of tax positions taken are largely dependent upon management weighting the current positive and negative evidence for recording tax benefits and expenses. Additionally, many of our positions are based on future estimates of taxable income and deductibility of tax positions. Particularly, our assertion of permanent reinvestment of foreign undistributed earnings is largely based on managements future estimates of domestic and foreign cash flows and current strategic foreign investment plans. As of December 31, 2019 , the Company is not asserting indefinite reinvestment on unremitted earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries in China and Mexico. We have recorded a U.S. deferred tax liability as applicable for these subsidiaries. All other foreign earnings continue to be considered indefinitely reinvested. We treat global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) as a periodic charge in the year in which it arises and therefore do not record deferred taxes for basis differences associated with GILTI. In the event that the actual outcome from future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions or management plans and positions are amended, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and financial position. (See Note 1 and Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived tangible and intangible assets subject to depreciation or amortization are tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. A test for recoverability is also performed when management has committed to a plan to dispose of a reporting unit or asset group. Assets to be held and used are tested for recoverability when indications of impairment are evident. Recoverability of a long-lived tangible or intangible asset is evaluated by comparing its carrying value to the future estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. If the asset is not recoverable, then the asset is considered impaired and adjusted to fair value which is then depreciated or amortized over its remaining useful life. Assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lesser of carrying value or fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing potential impairment for long-lived assets, we consider forecasted financial performance based, in large part, on management business plans and projected financial information which are subject to a high degree of management judgment and complexity. Future adverse changes in market conditions or adverse operating results of the underlying assets could result in having to record additional impairment charges not previously recognized. Results of Operations Factors That May Influence Results of Operations The following paragraphs describe factors that have influenced results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 , that management believes are important to provide an understanding of the business and results of operations or that may influence operations in the future. Prior Periods Financial Statement Revisions As described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, we have revised previously issued financial statements to correct immaterial misstatements. Accordingly, this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations reflects the effects of the revisions. 25 Table of Contents Management Structure Our enterprise and management structure is designed to accelerate growth and further balance our portfolio by aligning our strategic assets and businesses. Our businesses are organized into the Life Sciences, Mobile Solutions, and Power Solutions groups and are based principally on the end markets they serve. Life Sciences is focused on growth in the medical end market, primarily in the orthopaedics and medical/surgical end markets. Mobile Solutions is focused on growth in the general industrial and automotive end markets. Power Solutions is focused on growth in the electrical and aerospace and defense end markets. During 2019, our former president and chief executive officer and former chief financial officer left the Company, and we appointed a new chief executive officer and new chief financial officer. We also appointed new executive vice presidents over each of our segments. Capital Structure On December 11, 2019, we issued to affiliates of existing common stockholders in a private placement 0.1 million shares of contingently redeemable Series B convertible preferred stock (Preferred Stock) at a price of $1,000 per share, together with detachable warrants (the Warrants) to purchase up to 1.5 million shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $12.00 per share. The Preferred Stock has a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share; is redeemable at our option in cash (or, under certain circumstances, in stock), subject to the applicable redemption premium; is convertible into a variable number of common shares on certain terms and conditions on or after March 31, 2023; and is subject to certain other rights and obligations. In connection with the issuance of Preferred Stock, we entered into a registration rights agreement with the purchasers to provide certain customary demand registration rights exercisable beginning on March 31, 2021, with respect to their shares of common stock, including those underlying the Preferred Stock and Warrants, shares of Preferred Stock, and the Warrants. Net cash proceeds of $95.7 million from the issuance of the Preferred Stock were used for debt repayment, fees associated with the amendment and extension of our credit facility, and for general corporate purposes. Preferred Stock shares have limited voting rights and earn cumulative dividends at a rate of 10.625% per year, payable quarterly in arrears if declared, and accrue whether or not earned or declared. If a Preferred Stock dividend is declared by the Board of Directors, then it will be paid in cash. Additionally, holders of Preferred Stock participate in any dividends paid on shares of NNs common stock on an as-converted basis at a fixed conversion rate. If our common stockholders do not approve a proposal at our 2020 annual stockholder meeting to issue common stock in excess of thresholds established by certain Nasdaq stock market rules upon the exercise of Warrants or the conversion or redemption of Preferred Stock, then the annual dividend rate will immediately increase to 11.625% until such time approval is obtained. Coronavirus Outbreak In December 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus began to impact the population of China, where several of our manufacturing facilities are located. In late January and early February 2020, in an effort to contain the spread of the virus and maintain the wellbeing of our employees and in accordance with governmental requirements, we closed several production facilities in China. To date, approximately 92% of our Chinese employees at one location and 100% at another have all returned back to work, and limitations on movement in China appear to be softening. However, the virus has now spread globally, and if the outbreak situation should continue to worsen, we could experience further supplier and customer disruption, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. 26 Table of Contents Financial Data as a Percentage of Net Sales The following table presents the percentage of our net sales represented by statement of operations line item. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 75.7 % 76.5 % Selling, general and administrative expense 12.2 % 12.1 % Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense % 0.8 % Depreciation and amortization 10.8 % 9.2 % Goodwill impairment % 23.7 % Restructuring and integration expense, net % 0.3 % Other operating (income) expense, net 0.1 % 0.8 % Income (loss) from operations 1.2 % (23.3 )% Interest expense 6.7 % 7.9 % Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of debt issuance costs 0.4 % 2.5 % Other (income) expense, net 0.1 % 0.2 % Loss before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (6.1 )% (34.0 )% Benefit for income taxes 0.4 % 1.7 % Share of net income (loss) from joint venture 0.2 % (1.9 )% Net income (loss) (5.5 )% (34.1 )% Sales Concentration During 2019 , sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 52% of our consolidated net sales. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , we recognized sales from a single customer of $93.1 million , or 11.0% of consolidated net sales. Revenues from this customer are in our Life Sciences and Power Solutions groups. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and have a corresponding negative impact on our income from operations and operating cash flows or cause us to incur additional restructuring and/or impairment costs. 27 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2018 Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change Net sales $ 847,451 $ 770,657 $ 76,794 Acquisitions $ 75,334 Organic growth 9,847 Foreign exchange effects (8,387 ) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 641,639 589,181 52,458 Selling, general and administrative expense 103,223 93,583 9,640 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 5,871 (5,871 ) Depreciation and amortization 91,846 71,128 20,718 Goodwill impairment 182,542 (182,542 ) Restructuring and integration expense, net (12 ) 2,127 (2,139 ) Other operating (income) expense, net 866 6,089 (5,223 ) Income from operations 9,889 (179,864 ) 189,753 Interest expense 57,155 61,243 (4,088 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of debt issuance costs 3,293 19,562 (16,269 ) Other (income) expense, net 1,140 1,341 (201 ) Loss before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (51,699 ) (262,010 ) 210,311 Benefit for income taxes 3,277 13,413 (10,136 ) Share of net income (loss) from joint venture 1,681 (14,390 ) 16,071 Net loss $ (46,741 ) $ (262,987 ) $ 216,246 Net Sales . Net sales increase d by $76.8 million , or 10.0% , during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to $75.3 million of additional net sales attributable to businesses acquired in 2018 as well as a net increase due to organic growth of $9.8 million which was led by an increase in core volume in the Life Sciences group. The increase in Life Sciences core volume was partially offset by lower demand within the automotive end market in Mobile Solutions group as well as unfavorable foreign exchange effects of $8.4 million in Europe, South America, and Asia. Cost of Sales. Cost of sales increase d by $52.5 million , or 8.9% , during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to $51.5 million in additional cost of sales attributable to the businesses acquired in 2018 as well as an increase due to organic growth of $6.9 million . Organic growth in cost of sales relative to net sales was impacted by the relative contribution margin impact of higher sales in the Life Sciences group and lower sales in the Mobile Solutions group. The increase in cost of sales was partially offset by favorable foreign exchange effects of $6.0 million . Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Selling, general and administrative expense increase d by $9.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to businesses acquired in 2018 which collectively contributed an additional $7.4 million to selling, general and administrative expense during the year ended December 31, 2019 , as well as an increase in overall headcount and inflation in wages and benefits. The increase was partially offset by lower costs for professional services as a result of cost savings initiatives, including integration of recent acquisitions. Acquisition Related Costs Excluded from Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Acquisition related costs decrease d by $5.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , as there was no business acquisition activity during the year ended December 31, 2019 . The year ended December 31, 2018 , included professional service costs incurred in connection with the 2018 business acquisitions. Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization increase d by $20.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , consistent with additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, including an additional $11.8 million from businesses acquired in 2018. The increase in depreciation and amortization includes the effects of related fair value adjustments to certain property, plant and equipment and the addition of intangible assets, principally for customer relationships and trade names. 28 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment. Goodwill impairment decreased by $182.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , as there was no goodwill impairment recorded during the year ended December 31, 2019 . Goodwill impairment was recorded in the year ended December 31, 2018 , as a result of the goodwill impairment charges at Mobile Solutions and Power Solutions. Restructuring and Integration Expense. Restructuring and integration expense decrease d by $2.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to employee severance costs incurred in connection with implementing our new enterprise and management structure as well as the acquisition of Paragon Medical, Inc. in 2018. Note 15 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides more information regarding the effects of restructuring and integration on our operating results. Other Operating (Income) Expense, Net . Other operating (income) expense, net, decrease d by $5.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to a reduction in asset impairment charges. Interest Expense. Interest expense decrease d by $4.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to payoff of the $200.0 million Second Lien Facility, which was entered into in May 2018 and repaid in full in September 2018, as well as principal payments on our credit facility, partially offset by higher average interest rates and increased borrowings under the Senior Secured Revolver during 2019. Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 Interest on debt $ 51,967 $ 56,977 Interest rate swap settlements 1,411 Amortization of debt issuance costs 4,789 4,845 Capitalized interest (1,847 ) (1,203 ) Other 835 624 Total interest expense $ 57,155 $ 61,243 Loss on Extinguishment of Debt and Write-off of Unamortized Debt Issuance Costs. Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs decrease d by $16.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , due to a prepayment penalty and costs written off associated with the Second Lien Facility and the amendment to the existing credit facility in May 2018. Costs written off in association with the 2019 amendments to the credit facility were lower than those associated with the Second Lien Facility. Provision/Benefit for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate was 6.3% for the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to 5.1% for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Note 12 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the components of income taxes for each period presented. Share of Net Income from Joint Venture. Our share of net income from the joint venture increase d by $16.1 million primarily due to a partial impairment of the investment in the joint venture of $16.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 . Refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of the joint venture. Results by Segment LIFE SCIENCES Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change Net sales $ 359,732 $ 248,173 $ 111,559 Acquisitions $ 71,375 Organic growth 41,383 Foreign exchange effects (1,199 ) Income from operations 28,157 19,136 9,021 Net sales increase d by $111.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to $71.4 million of net sales attributable to the Paragon Medical and Bridgemedica acquisitions as well as a $41.4 million increase in organic growth as a result of an increase in core volume primarily within the orthopaedic and medical/surgical end markets. These increase s were partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange effects of $1.2 million . Income from operations increase d by $9.0 million compared to prior year primarily due to income related to the Paragon Medical and Bridgemedica acquisitions as well as lower costs resulting from our strategic initiatives for cost savings and the 29 Table of Contents favorable impact of integration activities. The higher income was partially offset by an increase in costs related to organic growth in the Life Sciences group. MOBILE SOLUTIONS Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change Net sales $ 297,749 $ 335,037 $ (37,288 ) Organic growth (30,305 ) Foreign exchange effects (6,983 ) Goodwill impairment 73,442 (73,442 ) Income from operations 9,553 (55,079 ) 64,632 Net sales decrease d by $37.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to lower demand within the North American and European automotive markets, unfavorable foreign exchange effects, reduced demand for components associated with programs nearing the end of the product lifecycle, and delays in new product launches, partially offset by higher demand within the South American automotive market. Income from operations increase d by $64.6 million compared to prior year primarily due to the $73.4 million goodwill impairment in the prior year. Absent the effect of the goodwill impairment, income from operations decrease d by $8.8 million due to lost variable margin on the above-referenced sales volume decline and costs associated with the launch of new fuel systems business within our European operations. These unfavorable impacts were partially offset by favorable foreign exchange effects and fixed cost reduction initiatives achieved in response to the decline in sales volume. POWER SOLUTIONS Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change Net sales $ 192,100 $ 189,778 $ 2,322 Acquisitions $ 3,959 Organic growth (1,432 ) Foreign exchange effects (205 ) Goodwill impairment 109,100 (109,100 ) Income from operations 13,881 (95,115 ) 108,996 Net sales increase d by $2.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2019 , compared to the year ended December 31, 2018 , primarily due to $4.0 million of net sales attributable to the Technical Arts acquisition. The increase in net sales was partially offset by lower demand in the electrical products end market and unfavorable foreign exchange effects. Income from operations increase d by $109.0 million compared to prior year due to the $109.1 million goodwill impairment in the prior year. Changes in Financial Condition from December 31, 2018 , to December 31, 2019 Overview From December 31, 2018 , to December 31, 2019 , total assets increase d by $41.1 million primarily due to the initial recognition of operating lease assets as of January 1, 2019, pursuant to ASC 842. Cash increase d by $13.7 million primarily due to residual proceeds from the issuance of Preferred Stock after paying down debt and the payment of fees associated with the amendment and extension of our credit facility. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in intangible assets due to normal amortization. From December 31, 2018 , to December 31, 2019 , total liabilities increase d by $14.1 million primarily due to the initial recognition of operating lease liabilities as of January 1, 2019, pursuant to ASC 842 and recognition of the fair value of the interest rate swap. These increase s were partially offset by a reduction in outstanding borrowings under our credit facility. Working capital, which consists principally of cash, accounts receivable, inventories, and other current assets offset by accounts payable, accrued payroll costs, current maturities of long-term debt, current portion of lease liabilities, and other current liabilities, was $163.5 million as of December 31, 2019 , compared to $151.2 million as of December 31, 2018 . The increase in working capital was due primarily to cash proceeds from the sale of Preferred Stock after the paydown of principal outstanding on the Senior Secured Revolver. 30 Table of Contents Cash Flows Cash provided by operations was $49.2 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 , compared with cash provided by operations of $40.9 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . The difference was primarily due to improved gross margin which was partially offset by cash paid for taxes in 2019 compared to cash received for tax refunds in 2018. Cash used in investing activities was $39.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 , compared with cash used by investing activities of $461.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . The decrease was primarily due to cash paid for the 2018 business acquisitions partially offset by cash received from the liquidation of a short-term investment and some fixed assets during 2019. Cash provided by financing activities was $5.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 , compared with cash provided by financing activities of $215.1 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . The difference was primarily due to net proceeds of $217.3 million from the sale of common stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 . We received net proceeds of $95.7 million from the sale of Preferred Stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2019 , which were used to repay the entire balance outstanding on our Senior Secured Revolver. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview On October 21, 2019, we announced expense reduction and cash savings initiatives to help the Company continue to pay down its debt and support greater growth by reinvesting in its businesses. The expense reduction and cash saving initiatives will include streamlining facilities and reducing overall selling, general and administrative costs; elimination of quarterly dividend payments; and a reduction in capital expenditures from 2019 spending levels as the Company returns to a more normalized level of capital spending after several years of higher investment. In November 2019, we initiated a strategic review to evaluate a broad range of operational, financial, and strategic options to reduce leverage and enhance shareholder value, and we retained external advisors to assist in this effort. The strategic options we are evaluating include further cost savings and cash generation initiatives, more efficient capital deployment, changes to our debt and equity structure to improve financial flexibility and liquidity, and the sale of part or all of NN, among others. As discussed in Note 13 and Note 17 in the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, on December 11, 2019, we issued preferred stock for net proceeds of $95.7 million and used a portion of the proceeds to repay amounts due at that time on our Senior Secured Revolver. In December 2019 we amended our Credit Agreement which, in turn, extended the due date of our Senior Secured Revolver to July 20, 2022 , and reduced the total available borrowing amount to $75.0 million and extended our Incremental Term Loan to October 19, 2022 , matching the date of our longer-dated Senior Secured Term Loan. Additionally, as part of this amendment our debt covenants were amended to establish more restrictive leverage ratios that also become more restrictive over time. Our Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio covenant (the financial leverage ratio covenant) is required to be complied with on a quarterly basis at the end of each of our quarterly reporting periods. Our financial leverage ratio covenant is based upon our consolidated net indebtedness at each quarter end and our trailing twelve-month Adjusted EBITDA as defined in our Credit Agreement. In order to maintain compliance with the financial leverage ratio covenant, our operational and financial performance must continue to improve in line with our expectations. The Company relies on cash flow generated from operations and available borrowings under its Senior Secured Revolver to fund our working capital and other operating and investing needs. Our ability to borrow under our Senior Secured Revolver is based on our continued compliance with our financial leverage ratio covenant, as defined, which becomes more restrictive in the second quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. If our operational and financial performance does not improve in line with our expectations, and as a result we are unable to comply with our financial ratio covenant, then the revolving credit lenders, the Senior Secured Term Loan lenders, and the Incremental Term Loan lenders could take action to cause amounts due under our credit facilities to become due and payable unless we are able to amend such covenants or otherwise refinance our debt. Our ability to amend our covenants or refinance our debt is dependent upon several factors, and therefore there can be no assurance that we would be successful in these efforts. If we would be unable to access future borrowings or be required to pay amounts due under our credit facilities prior to their normal maturity dates, this would have a material impact to the Companys financial position. We have developed a plan to mitigate the risk of noncompliance with our financial covenants, if necessary, which includes the implementation of a series of specific and identified cost reductions in both our corporate and business groups, including a reduction of our direct and indirect labor costs and benefits. In addition, our plans also include, as deemed necessary, repatriating cash from certain overseas businesses, managing our working capital more efficiently through usage of our customers available supply chain finance programs and other means, and the sale or sublease of certain underutilized properties. 31 Table of Contents Hedging On February 8, 2019 , we entered into a $700.0 million fixed-rate interest rate swap agreement that changed the LIBOR-based portion of the interest rate on a portion of our variable rate debt to a fixed rate of 2.4575% . The term of the interest rate swap is from the effective date of February 12, 2019 , through the termination date of October 19, 2022 , with a declining notional amount over the term of the interest rate swap. Refer to Note 22 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion about the interest rate swap. Our arrangements with customers typically provide that payments are due within 30 to 60 days following the date of shipment. We invoice and receive payment from many of our customers in various other currencies. Additionally, we are party to various third party and intercompany loans, payables, and receivables denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of these sales, loans, payables, and receivables, we are exposed to foreign exchange transaction and translation risk. Various strategies to manage this risk are available to management, including producing and selling in local currencies and hedging programs. As of December 31, 2019 , no currency derivatives were in place. In addition, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could impair our ability to compete with international competitors for foreign as well as domestic sales. Credit Facility Aggregate principal amounts outstanding under our Senior Secured Term Loan, Incremental Term Loan, and Senior Secured Revolver as of December 31, 2019 , were $783.4 million , without regard to unamortized debt issuance costs. As of December 31, 2019 , we had unused borrowing capacity of $63.9 million under the Senior Secured Revolver, subject to certain limitations. This amount of borrowing capacity is net of $11.1 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2019 , which are considered as usage of the Senior Secured Revolver. Collectively, our Senior Secured Term Loan, Incremental Term Loan, and Senior Secured Revolver comprise our credit facility. Total available capacity under the Senior Secured Revolver was $75.0 million as of December 31, 2019 . The Senior Secured Revolver matures on July 20, 2022 . The Senior Secured Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of $1.4 million through October 19, 2022 , with the remaining principal amount due on the maturity date. If one-month LIBOR is less than 0.75% , then we pay 6.00% per annum in interest. If one-month LIBOR exceeds 0.75% , then we pay the variable one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 5.25% . Based on the interest rate in effect at December 31, 2019 , annual interest payments would be approximately $41.1 million in 2020 , approximately $40.2 million in 2021 , and approximately $30.6 million in 2022 . The Incremental Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of $3.0 million through October 19, 2022 , with the remaining principal amount due on the maturity date. The Incremental Term Loan bears interest at the variable one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 5.25% . Based on the interest rate in effect at December 31, 2019 , annual interest payments would be $19.3 million in 2020 , $17.2 million in 2021 , and $13.1 million in 2022 . The Senior Secured Revolver bears interest on a variable rate structure with borrowings bearing interest at either one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 4.00% or the prime lending rate plus an applicable margin of 3.00% . We pay a commitment fee of 0.50% for unused capacity under the Senior Secured Revolver. Covenants Our credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants based on a consolidated net leverage ratio, becoming more restrictive over time. If our operational or financial performance does not improve in line with our expectations, we may be required to take actions to further reduce expenditures and decrease our net indebtedness to maintain compliance in future periods. We were in compliance with all covenants under our credit facility at December 31, 2019 . 32 Table of Contents The table below sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2019 : Payments Due by Period Certain Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years After 5 years Long-term debt including current portion $ 793,247 $ 19,160 $ 767,939 $ 2,347 $ 3,801 Expected interest payments (1) 162,496 60,639 101,447 195 215 Operating leases (2) 109,212 12,229 22,174 18,535 56,274 Transition tax on deferred foreign income 1,480 208 598 674 Finance leases 16,763 4,099 7,952 4,440 272 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,083,198 $ 96,335 $ 900,110 $ 26,191 $ 60,562 _______________________________ (1) Expected interest payments consists of fixed-rate debt under the interest rate swap agreement (refer to Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and variable rate debt. Expected interest payments under the variable rate debt are based on one-month LIBOR as of December 31, 2019 . (2) During the year ended December 31, 2018, we entered into a build-to-suit lease agreement that will commence upon completion of construction of the leased facility. Base rent payments of approximately $1.8 million per year are not included in the table above and are expected to commence during the third quarter of 2020 and continue over the 15-year lease term. We have approximately $2.6 million in unrecognized tax benefits accrued within the liabilities section of our balance sheet. We are unsure when or if at all these amounts might be paid to U.S. and/or foreign taxing authorities. Accordingly, these amounts have been excluded from the table above. (See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Functional Currencies We currently have foreign operations in Brazil, China, France, Mexico, and Poland. The local currency of each foreign facility is also its functional currency. Seasonality and Fluctuation in Quarterly Results General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months as customers slow production, medical device sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and sales to original equipment manufacturers are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not materially impacted by seasonality. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources.