ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Spartacus Acquisition Shelf Corp. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning for Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commissions (the SEC) website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a Delaware corporation formed by Spartacus Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the SPAC) on May 21, 2021 (inception) to be the surviving company in connection with a proposed business combination between the SPAC and a target company. On June 3, 2021, the Company formed the Merger Entities (as defined below) for the purpose of consummating the proposed business combination described below. Each of the Merger Entities is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and has issued common stock and ownership interest to the Company in consideration of its payment of incorporation expenses. 8 Agreement and Plan of Merger for a Business Combination On June 9, 2021, the SPAC entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with the Company, NextNav, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, NextNav Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Holdings), NEA 14 NextNav Blocker, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (NEA Blocker), Oak NextNav Blocker, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (Oak Blocker), Columbia Progeny Partners IV, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Columbia Blocker), Global Long Short Partners Aggregating Holdings Del VII LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (GS Blocker 1), Global Private Opportunities Partners Holdings II Corp., a Delaware corporation, (GS Blocker 2, and collectively with NEA Blocker, Oak Blocker, Columbia Blocker, and GS Blocker 1, the Blockers), SASC (SPAC) Merger Sub 1 Corporation, a Delaware corporation (MS 1), SASC (Target) Merger Sub 2 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (MS 2), SASC (NB) Merger Sub 3 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (MS 3), SASC (OB) Merger Sub 4 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (MS 4), SASC (CB) Merger Sub 5 Corporation, a Delaware corporation (MS 5), SASC (GB1) Merger Sub 6 LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (MS 6) , and SASC (GB2) Merger Sub 7 Corporation, a Delaware corporation (MS 7, and collectively with MS 1, MS 2, MS 3, MS 4, MS 5, and MS 6, the Merger Entities). The Merger Agreement provides for, among other things, (a) MS 1 to be merged with and into the SPAC, with the SPAC surviving the merger; (b) MS 2 to be merged with and into Holdings, with Holdings surviving the merger; (c) MS 3 to be merged with and into NEA Blocker, with NEA Blocker surviving the merger; (d) MS 4 to be merged with and into Oak Blocker, with Oak Blocker surviving the merger; (e) MS 5 to be merged with and into Columbia Blocker, with Columbia Blocker surviving the merger; (f) MS 6 to be merged with and into GS Blocker 1, with GS Blocker 1 surviving the merger; and (g) MS 7 to be merged with and into GS Blocker 2, with GS Blocker 2 surviving the merger (the Transactions). As a result of the Transactions, the SPAC, NEA Blocker, Oak Blocker, Columbia Blocker, GS Blocker 1, GS Blocker 2 and Holdings and the various operating subsidiaries of Holdings (we refer to Holdings and its operating subsidiaries collectively as NextNav), will become wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, and the SPACs stockholders, the equity holders of each of NEA Blocker, Oak Blocker, Columbia Blocker, GS Blocker 1, GS Blocker 2, and the equity holders of Holdings, will become stockholders of the Company. The aggregate consideration to be paid to the equity holders of Holdings, NEA Blocker, Oak Blocker, Columbia Blocker, GS Blocker 1 and GS Blocker 2 in the Transactions will consist of approximately 75 million shares of the Companys common stock. The number of shares of the equity consideration will be based on a $10.00 per share value for the common stock. Pursuant to the SPACs amended and restated certificate of incorporation and in accordance with the terms of the Merger Agreement, the SPAC will be providing its public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem, upon the closing of the Transactions, their shares of Class A common stock of the SPAC for cash equal to their pro rata share of the aggregate amount on deposit as of two business days prior to the consummation of the Transactions in the trust account (which holds the proceeds of the SPACs initial public offering, less taxes payable). Upon the consummation of the business combination, the Company intends to change its name to NextNav Inc. The consummation of the business combination is subject to certain conditions as further described in the Merger Agreement. Concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement, certain qualified institutional buyers (as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act) or institutional accredited investors (as such term is defined in Rule 501 under the Securities Act) (collectively, the PIPE Investors), entered into subscription agreements (the PIPE Subscription Agreements) pursuant to which the PIPE Investors have committed to subscribe for and purchase 20.5 million shares of the SPACs Class A common stock (the PIPE Shares) at a purchase price per share of $10.00 for aggregate gross proceeds of $205 million. The purchase of the PIPE Shares will be consummated immediately prior to the Closing, with such PIPE Shares immediately being cancelled in connection with the mergers and in consideration for newly issued common stock of the Company. For additional information regarding NextNav, the Merger Agreement and related agreements and the Transactions, refer to the Registration Statement on Form S-4/A filed by the Company with the SEC on August 25, 2021, which the SEC declared effective on September 13, 2021. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities since inception have been organizational activities and those necessary to prepare for the proposed business combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial business combination. We incur expenses for legal, financial reporting, accounting, and auditing compliance in connection with completing our proposed business combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a loss from operations of $84,583, which consists of formation and operating costs related to our proposed business combination. For the period of May 21, 2021 (inception) through September 30, 2021, we had a loss from operations of $293,081, which consists of formation and operating costs related to our proposed business combination. 9 Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the proposed business combination, the Companys only source of liquidity is the SPAC. As of September 30, 2021, the Company did not have any cash, relying on the SPAC to fund all of its expenses. The SPAC has until April 19, 2022 to complete its initial business combination. If the SPAC is unable to complete the initial business combination by April 19, 2022, the SPAC must cease all operations and dissolve and liquidate under Delaware law. The liquidity condition and date for mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. For the period from May 21, 2021 (inception) through September 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was zero, due to the SPAC paying for all the Companys costs. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets, or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources are based on our unaudited financial information. We describe our significant accounting policies in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, of the Notes to Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report. Our unaudited financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Certain of our accounting policies require that management apply significant judgments in defining the appropriate assumptions integral to financial estimates. On an ongoing basis, management reviews the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. Judgments are based on historical experience, terms of existing contracts, industry trends and information available from outside sources, as appropriate. However, by their nature, judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, and, therefore, actual results could differ from our estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting pronouncements, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed financial statements.