Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Despite our high indebtedness level, we will still be able to incur substantial additional amounts of debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our debt agreements contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, the amount of indebtedness that could be incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries debt levels, the related risks that we now face could increase. 13 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that will limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our debt agreements contain various incurrence covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These incurrence covenants will limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our capital stock, prepay, redeem, or repurchase certain debt or make other restricted payments; make certain investments and acquisitions; create certain liens; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends to us; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; alter our existing businesses; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the incurrence covenants in our debt agreements require us to meet specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which, in turn, will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market, and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or more of our debt agreements and permit our lenders to cease making loans to us under our credit facility (as defined below). Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our secured debt agreements, our secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure our borrowings. Such actions by the lenders could also cause cross defaults under our other debt agreements. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to refinance our debt obligations as they mature. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. We regularly review our capital structure, various financing alternatives and conditions in the debt and equity markets in order to opportunistically enhance our capital structure. In connection therewith, we may seek to refinance or retire existing indebtedness, incur new or additional indebtedness or issue equity or equity-linked securities, in each case, depending on market and other conditions. As our debt obligations mature or if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of our existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We have international operations that are subject to foreign economic uncertainties and foreign currency fluctuation. Approximately 29% of our revenues are denominated in foreign currencies, which may result in additional risk of fluctuating currency values and exchange rates and controls on currency exchange. Changes in the value of foreign currencies could increase our U.S. dollar costs for, or reduce our U.S. dollar revenues from, our foreign operations. Any increased costs or reduced revenues as a result of foreign currency fluctuations could affect our profits. In 2017, the U.S. dollar weakened compared to the euro, which favorably affected our revenue by $2.0 million. In contrast, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 14 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations and may decline. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: macro or micro-economic factors; our operating and financial performance and prospects; quarterly variations in the rate of growth of our financial indicators, such as earnings per share, net income and revenues; changes in revenue or earnings estimates or publication of research reports by analysts; loss of any member of our senior management team; speculation in the press or investment community; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructuring; sales of our common stock by stockholders; general market conditions; domestic and international economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance; loss of a major customer; and the declaration and payment of a dividend. The stock markets in general have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, due to the market capitalization of our stock, our stock tends to be more volatile than large capitalization stocks that comprise the Dow Jones Industrial Average or Standard and Poors 500 Index. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable and may prevent shareholders from receiving a takeover premium for their shares. These provisions include, for example, a classified board of directors and the authorization of our board of directors to issue up to five million preferred shares without a stockholder vote. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that stockholders may not call a special meeting. We are a Delaware corporation subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, an anti-takeover law. Generally, this statute prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which such person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. A business combination includes a merger, asset sale or other transaction resulting in a financial benefit to the stockholder. We anticipate that the provisions of Section 203 may encourage parties interested in acquiring us to negotiate in advance with our board of directors, because the stockholder approval requirement would be avoided if a majority of the directors then in office approve either the business combination or the transaction that results in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Acquisitions and Divestitures Acquisitions may constitute an important part of our future growth strategy. Acquiring businesses that complement or expand our operations has been and may continue to be a key element of our business strategy. We regularly evaluate acquisition transactions, sign non-disclosure agreements, and participate in processes with respect to acquisitions, some of which may be material to us. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates or completing acquisitions on favorable terms in the future. In addition, we may borrow funds or issue equity to acquire other businesses, increasing our interest expense and debt levels or diluting our existing stockholders ownership interest in us. Our inability to acquire businesses, or to operate them profitably once acquired, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our borrowing agreements limit our ability to complete acquisitions without prior approval of our lenders. Although our previous acquisitions have been successful from a business perspective, we have had difficulty with purchase accounting and other aspects related to the accounting for our acquisitions. Future acquisitions are likely to exacerbate these issues and make remediation of our material weaknesses more challenging. See also the Risk Factor We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. We either may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from completed acquisitions or any future strategic portfolio acquisition, or it may take longer to realize such benefits. Achieving those benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post-acquisition events, including integrating the acquired businesses into our existing businesses. The integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would preclude the realization of the full anticipated benefits. The difficulties of combining the operations of acquired companies include, among others: the diversion of managements attention to integration matters; difficulties in the integration of operations and systems, including, without limitation, the complexities associated with managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company, addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies and the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of each of the acquired companies; difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired businesses with our own; the inability to implement effective internal controls, procedures and policies for acquired businesses as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 within the time periods prescribed thereby; the exposure to potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with acquired businesses; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, ongoing operations or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. Many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of managements time and energy, which could materially impact our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Additionally, we incurred a significant amount of debt in connection with our acquisitions in the past few years. Finally, in relation to such acquisitions, we have significantly higher amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill. These intangible assets will be subject to impairment testing, and we could incur a significant impact to our financial statements in the form of an impairment if assumptions and expectations related to our acquisitions are not realized. We have and will continue to incur expenses related to our acquisitions and the integration of our acquired companies. We have and will continue to incur expenses related to our acquisitions and the integration of our acquired companies. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These integration expenses may result in us taking charges against earnings, and the amount of any future charges are uncertain at present. 16 Table of Contents We may be unable to realize the anticipated cost or capital expenditure savings or may incur additional and/or unexpected costs in order to realize them. There can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the anticipated cost or capital expenditure savings from our acquisitions in the anticipated amounts or within the anticipated timeframes or at all. With respect to each acquisition, we anticipate implementing a series of cost savings initiatives that we expect to result in recurring, annual run-rate cost savings. These or any other cost or capital expenditure savings that we realize may differ materially from our estimates. We cannot provide assurances that these anticipated savings will be achieved or that our programs and improvements will be completed as anticipated or at all. In addition, any cost savings that we realize may be offset, in whole or in part, by reductions in revenues or through increases in other expenses. Our projections and assumptions related to cost savings are based on our current estimates, but they involve risks, uncertainties, projections and other factors that may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements, express or implied. Neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent auditors, have examined, compiled or performed any procedures with respect to these projections, nor have they expressed any opinion, or any other form of assurance on such information or their achievability. Assumptions relating to our projections involve subjective decisions and judgments with respect to, among other things, the estimated impact of certain operational adjustments, including Six Sigma/OpEx optimization programs, product grouping and rationalization, facility rationalization and shared services cost savings and other cost and savings adjustments, as well as future economic, competitive, industry and market conditions and future business decisions, all of which are inherently uncertain and may be beyond the control of our management. Failure to realize the expected costs savings and operating synergies related to our acquisitions could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our future results could suffer if we cannot effectively manage our expanded operations, which are significantly larger and more complex following our acquisitions. As a result of our acquisitions over the past few years, the size and scope of our operations were significantly increased. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage the expanded operations, which will pose challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We may not have the expertise, experience and resources to pursue or successfully operate all of our businesses at once. The administration of our businesses requires implementation and oversight of appropriate operations, management, compliance and financial reporting systems and controls. We may experience difficulties in effectively implementing and overseeing these and other systems. Such implementation and initial oversight will require the focused attention of our management team, including a significant commitment of its time and resources. The need for management to focus on these matters could have a material and adverse impact on our revenues and operating results. There can be no assurance that we will be successful or that we will realize any operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements or other benefits currently anticipated from our acquisitions. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and may result in unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements from past acquisitions require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of each of their companies before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited in amount and duration and certain former owners may not be able to meet their indemnification responsibilities. These indemnification provisions may not fully protect us, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our profitability and financial position. Our participation in joint ventures could expose us to additional risks from time to time. We currently have a 49% investment in a Chinese joint venture and may participate in additional joint ventures from time to time. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are not consistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; 17 Table of Contents we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited; our joint venture partners might become bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; and our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflict of interest issues. Any divestitures and discontinued operations could negatively impact our business, and retained liabilities from businesses that we may sell could adversely affect our financial results. As part of our portfolio management process, we review our operations for businesses which may no longer be aligned with our strategic initiatives and long-term objectives. Divestitures pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, including required separation or carve-out activities and costs, disputes with buyers or potential impairment charges. We may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had previously anticipated. After reaching an agreement with a buyer for the disposition of a business, we are also subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions, as well as necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which may prevent us from completing a transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement, as we may be required to retain responsibility for, or agree to indemnify buyers against contingent liabilities related to businesses sold, such as lawsuits, tax liabilities, lease payments, product liability claims or environmental matters. Under these types of arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect future financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties As of March 1, 2018, we owned or leased 44 facilities in a total of six countries, which includes a 49% equity interest in a manufacturing joint venture in China. Utilization of these sites may vary with product mix and economic, seasonal, and other business conditions. Our plants generally have sufficient capacity for existing needs and expected near-term growth. These plants are generally well maintained, in good operating condition, and suitable and adequate for their use. The following table lists the locations of our facilities by segment. Autocam Precision Components Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Dowagiac, Michigan Plant U.S.A. Owned Kentwood, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Plant 3, Warehouse U.S.A. Leased Kentwood, Michigan Office U.S.A. Owned Marshall, Michigan Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Marshall, Michigan Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 1 U.S.A. Leased Wellington, Ohio Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Kamienna Gora Plant Poland Owned Marnaz Plant France Owned Wuxi Plant China Leased Juarez Plant Mexico Leased Boituva Plant Brazil Leased Campinas Office Brazil Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista Plant 1 Brazil Leased Sao Joao da Boa Vista Plant 2 Brazil Leased 18 Table of Contents Precision Engineered Products Group Location General Character Country Owned or Leased Algonquin, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 2 U.S.A. Leased Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant 3 U.S.A. Owned Attleboro, Massachusetts Office U.S.A. Leased Aurora, Illinois Plant U.S.A. Leased Bridgeport, Connecticut Plant 1 U.S.A. Owned Bridgeport, Connecticut Plant 2 U.S.A. Owned East Providence, Rhode Island Plant U.S.A. Leased Fairfield, Ohio Plant U.S.A. Owned Franklin, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Hatfield, Pennsylvania Plant U.S.A. Leased Hingham, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Irvine, California Plant U.S.A. Leased Lubbock, Texas Plant U.S.A. Owned Mansfield, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Mansfield, Massachusetts Warehouse U.S.A. Leased North Attleboro, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Owned Palmer, Massachusetts Plant U.S.A. Leased Wallingford, Connecticut Plant U.S.A. Leased Warsaw, Indiana Plant U.S.A. Leased Vandalia, Ohio Plant U.S.A. Leased Foshan City Plant China Leased Mexico City Plant Mexico Owned Joint Venture Location General Character Country Owned or Leased by Joint Venture Wuxi Plant China Leased In addition to these manufacturing plants, we lease an office building in Johnson City, Tennessee, which currently serves as our corporate office. We are in the process of moving our global headquarters to a leased office building in Charlotte, North Carolina. We expect to complete this move to Charlotte in the first half of 2018. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Prior to the Autocam acquisition, Autocams Brazilian subsidiary received notification from the Brazilian tax authorities regarding ICMS (State Value Added Tax or VAT) tax credits claimed on intermediary materials (tooling and perishable items) used in the manufacturing process. The Brazilian tax authority notification disallowed state ICMS credits claimed on intermediary materials based on the argument that these items are not intrinsically related to the manufacturing processes. Autocam Brazil filed an administrative defense with the Brazilian tax authority arguing, among other matters, that it should qualify for ICMS tax credit, contending that the intermediary materials are directly related to the manufacturing process. We believe that we have substantial legal and factual defenses, and we plan to defend our interests in this matter vigorously. While we believe a loss is not probable, we estimate the range of possible losses related to this assessment is from $0 to $6.0 million. No amount was accrued at December 31, 2017, for this matter. There was no material change in the status of this matter during 2017. We are entitled to indemnification from the former shareholders of Autocam, subject to the limitations and procedures set forth in the agreement and plan of merger relating to the Autocam acquisition. Management believes the indemnification would include amounts owed for the tax, interest and penalties related to this matter. 19 Table of Contents All other legal proceedings are of an ordinary and routine nature and are incidental to our operations. Management believes that such proceedings should not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. In making that determination, we analyze the facts and circumstances of each case at least quarterly in consultation with our attorneys and determine a range of reasonably possible outcomes. The procedures performed include reviewing attorney and plaintiff correspondence, reviewing any filings made and discussing the facts of the case with local management and legal counsel. We have not recognized any material loss contingencies at December 31, 2017, or at December 31, 2016. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 20 Table of Contents Part II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq under the trading symbol NNBR. As of March 19, 2018, there were approximately 5,557 beneficial owners of record of our common stock, and the closing per share stock price as reported by Nasdaq was $24.80. The following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of the common stock, as reported by Nasdaq for our two most recent fiscal years. Close Price High Low 2017 First Quarter $ 25.20 $ 17.60 Second Quarter 30.80 24.95 Third Quarter 30.30 24.80 Fourth Quarter 32.40 25.75 2016 First Quarter $ 14.90 $ 10.58 Second Quarter 19.16 12.77 Third Quarter 18.81 13.48 Fourth Quarter 20.21 13.65 The following graph and table compare the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total shareholder return of: (i) the S&P SmallCap 600 Index and (ii) a customized peer group, for the period from December 31, 2012, to December 31, 2017. The customized peer group consists of the following companies, which we believe are in similar lines of business: Actuant Corporation, Altra Industrial Motion Corp., Ametek Inc., CIRCOR International, Inc., Colfax Corporation, Crane, Kaman Corporation, Park-Ohio Holdings Corp. and Worthington Industries, Inc. (collectively, the Peer Group). The following graph and table assume that a $100 investment was made at the close of trading on December 31, 2012, in our common stock and in the S&P SmallCap Index and the Peer Group. We cannot assure you that the performance of our common stock will continue in the future with the same or similar trend depicted on the graph. 21 Table of Contents Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return NN Inc., Peer Group, and S&P SmallCap 600 Index (Performance results through 12/31/17) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 NN, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 222.20 $ 229.08 $ 179.77 $ 218.72 $ 320.44 Peer Group $ 100.00 $ 147.91 $ 132.54 $ 112.60 $ 132.08 $ 166.77 S&P SmallCap 600 $ 100.00 $ 141.31 $ 149.45 $ 146.51 $ 185.42 $ 209.95 Source: Value Line Publishing LLC The declaration and payment of dividends are subject to the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and depend upon our profitability, financial condition, capital needs, credit agreement restrictions, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The following table sets forth the dividends per share paid during the last two fiscal years. 2017 Dividend First Quarter $ 0.07 Second Quarter $ 0.07 Third Quarter $ 0.07 Fourth Quarter $ 0.07 2016 Dividend First Quarter $ 0.07 Second Quarter $ 0.07 Third Quarter $ 0.07 Fourth Quarter $ 0.07 22 Table of Contents See Part III, Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information required by Item 201 (d) of Regulation S-K. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected financial data has been derived from our audited financial statements. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7 and the audited Consolidated Financial Statements, including the Notes thereto, in Item 8. Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 (1) 2015 (1) 2014 (2) 2013 (2) Statement of Operations Data: Net sales $ 619,793 $ 584,954 $ 405,443 $ 210,575 $ 113,747 Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 459,080 428,843 320,632 169,263 90,566 Income (loss) from operations 33,114 34,779 58 (3,776 ) 965 Income (loss) from continuing operations 25,369 (9,490 ) (24,375 ) (12,788 ) (408 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 137,688 16,153 17,889 21,005 17,586 Income (loss) from continuing operations per share, basic $ 0.92 $ (0.35 ) $ (1.15 ) $ (0.71 ) $ (0.02 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations per share, diluted $ 0.91 $ (0.35 ) $ (1.15 ) $ (0.71 ) $ (0.02 ) Dividends declared per common share $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.28 $ 0.18 As of December 31, 2017 2016 (1) 2015 (1) 2014 (2) 2013 (2) Balance Sheet Data: Current assets $ 477,280 $ 282,328 $ 283,910 $ 245,131 $ 125,674 Current liabilities 108,421 140,241 132,491 138,485 69,384 Total assets 1,475,003 1,358,274 1,388,337 702,892 260,752 Long-term obligations 792,499 788,953 802,011 327,759 24,350 Stockholders equity 486,104 309,391 312,431 172,989 152,760 (1) Includes the reclassification of discontinued operations and the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 2 and Note 21, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. (2) Includes the reclassification of discontinued operations as disclosed in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Net sales of discontinued operations were $278.0 million and $259.5 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Cost of sales of discontinued operations was $215.6 million and $204.6 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Income from operations attributable to discontinued operations was $31.5 million and $26.9 million in 2014 and 2013, respectively. Current assets of discontinued operations were $106.3 million and $92.6 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Current liabilities of discontinued operations were $54.9 million and $48.4 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Total assets of discontinued operations were $214.3 million and $198.0 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. On August 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our PBC Business to Tsubaki for a base purchase price of $375.0 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. After working capital and other closing adjustments, the final cash purchase price was approximately $388.5 million. We recorded an after-tax gain on sale of $127.7 million, which is included in the Income from discontinued operations, net of tax line in the table above. The PBC Business included all our facilities that were engaged in the production of precision steel balls, steel rollers, and metal retainers and automotive specialty products used primarily in the bearing industry. The sale of the PBC Business furthers managements long-term strategy to build a diversified industrial business with a comprehensive geographic footprint in attractive high-growth market segments. The PBC Business represented all of the PBC reportable segment disclosed in our historical financial statements. The operating results of PBC are classified as discontinued operations. The presentation of discontinued operations includes revenues and expenses of the discontinued operations and gain on the disposition of the business, net of tax, as one line item. Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 provides a summary of the components of income from discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016, and 2015. 23 Table of Contents On October 2, 2017, we acquired 100% of the membership interests of Vandalia for approximately $38.7 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Vandalia is a supplier of precision manufactured medical instruments and orthopedic implants with locations in Ohio and Pennsylvania. Operating results of Vandalia after the acquisition date are reported in the Precision Engineered Products Group and represented a $0.5 million loss from operations in 2017. Vandalia contributed $6.7 million to net sales of our Precision Engineered Products Group in 2017. The year ended December 31, 2015 was significantly impacted by the PEP Acquisition and to a lesser extent the Caprock acquisition completed in 2015, as well as the issuance of shares of our common stock. With these acquisitions, we acquired current assets and total assets of $71.7 million and $747.5 million, respectively, and assumed current liabilities and total liabilities of $22.0 million and $118.9 million, respectively. Beginning October 20, 2015, our Precision Engineered Products Group includes the results of the PEP Acquisition. Since the date of the PEP Acquisition, 2015 sales revenue of $40.7 million and net loss from operations of $5.1 million has been included in our Precision Engineered Products Group. The PEP Acquisition on October 19, 2015, was funded with new debt. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our debt instruments. On July 1, 2015 we closed a registered follow-on offering of public common stock. We sold approximately 7.6 million shares of common stock at a public offering price of $24.00 per share. The net proceeds received from the offering, after deducting underwriter discounts, commissions and offering expenses, were approximately $173.1 million. Of these proceeds, $148.7 million was used for repayment of principal and interest on existing debt. The year ended December 31, 2014 was significantly impacted by the Autocam acquisition. In addition, we discontinued use of certain Autocam trade names and incurred a $0.9 million impairment charge. The balance sheet as of December 31, 2014, includes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed during 2014. With the Autocam acquisition, we acquired current assets and total assets of $87.3 million and $407.8 million, respectively, and assumed current liabilities and total liabilities of $41.3 million and $119.3 million, respectively. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto and Selected Financial Data included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Historical operating results and percentage relationships among any amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements are not necessarily indicative of trends in operating results for any future period. Unless otherwise noted herein, all amounts are in thousands, except per share numbers. Overview and Management Focus Our strategy and management focus is based upon the following long-term objectives Organic and acquisitive growth within all our segments; Sales growth in adjacent markets; Sales growth through acquisitions; and Global expansion of our manufacturing base to better address the global requirements of our customers. Management generally focuses on these trends and relevant market indicators Global industrial growth and economics; Residential and non-residential construction rates; Global automotive production rates; Surgery rates and U.S. healthcare spending; Costs subject to the global inflationary environment, including, but not limited to: Raw materials; Wages and benefits, including health care costs; Regulatory compliance; and Energy; 24 Table of Contents Trends related to the geographic migration of competitive manufacturing; Regulatory environment for United States public companies and manufacturing companies; Currency and exchange rate movements and trends; Interest rate levels and expectations. Changes in tariff regulations, including, but not limited to, the Trump Administrations March 8, 2018, order that will impose an import tariff of 25% on steel. Management generally focuses on the following key indicators of operating performance Sales growth; Cost of sales; Selling, general and administrative expense; Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; Income from operations and adjusted income from operations; Net income and adjusted net income; Cash flow from operations and capital spending; Customer service reliability; External and internal quality indicators; and Employee development. Critical Accounting Policies Our significant accounting policies, including the assumptions and judgment underlying them, are disclosed in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies have been consistently applied in all material respects and address such matters as revenue recognition, inventory valuation and asset impairment recognition. Due to the estimation processes involved, management considers the following summarized accounting policies and their application to be critical to understanding our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that actual results will not significantly differ from the estimates used in these critical accounting policies. Business Combinations We allocate the total purchase price of tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as of the business combination date, with the excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. The purchase price allocation process required us to use significant estimates and assumptions, including fair value estimates, as of the business combination date. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from management of the acquired company. Our assumptions and estimates are also partially based on valuation models that incorporate projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans and are inherently uncertain. Valuations are performed by management or third-party valuation specialists under managements supervision. In determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, as appropriate, we may use one of the following recognized valuation methods: the income approach (including discounted cash flows from relief from royalty and excess earnings model), the market approach and/or the replacement cost approach. Examples of significant estimates used to value certain intangible assets acquired include but are not limited to: sales volume, pricing and future cash flows of the business overall; future expected cash flows from customer relationships, and other identifiable intangible assets, including future price levels, rates of increase in revenue and appropriate attrition rate; 25 Table of Contents the acquired companys brand and competitive position, royalty rate quantum, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to benefit to the combined companys product portfolio; and cost of capital, risk-adjusted discount rates and income tax rates. Different assumptions regarding projected performance and other factors associated with the acquired assets may affect the amount recorded under each type of asset and liability. The valuations of property plant and equipment, intangibles assets, goodwill and deferred income tax liabilities depend heavily on assumptions. Subsequent assessment could result in future impairment charges. We refine these estimates over a measurement period not to exceed one year to reflect new information obtained surrounding facts and circumstances existing at acquisition date. Goodwill and Other Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis in the fourth quarter and between annual tests if a triggering event occurs. The impairment analysis is performed at the reporting unit level. We have the option to make a qualitative assessment of whether it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount before applying the two-step goodwill impairment test. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, then we do not need to perform the two-step impairment test. For the years ended, December 31, 2017 and 2016, we chose not to perform the qualitative assessment but rather performed only the first step in the annual impairment test. The decision to perform a qualitative assessment or proceed to the two-step impairment test is an annual decision made by management. Based on the results of performing the first step of the impairment test, the fair value of the reporting units exceeded the carrying value of the reporting units at December 31, 2017 and 2016. If the qualitative assessment indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying value, Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) prescribes a two-step process for testing for goodwill impairments. The first step is to determine if the carrying value of the reporting unit with goodwill is less than the related fair value of the reporting unit. We consider three main approaches to value (cost, market and income) the fair value of the reporting unit and market based multiples of earning and sales methods obtained from a grouping of comparable publicly trading companies. We believe this methodology of valuation is consistent with how market participants would value reporting units. The discount rate and market based multiples used are specifically developed for the unit tested regarding the level of risk and end markets served. Even though we do use other observable inputs (Level 2 inputs) the calculation of fair value for goodwill would be most consistent with Level 3 inputs. If the carrying value of the reporting unit including goodwill is less than fair value of the reporting unit, the goodwill is not considered impaired. If the carrying value is greater than fair value then the potential for impairment of goodwill exists. The potential impairment is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit among the assets and liabilities based on a purchase price allocation methodology as if the reporting unit was acquired in a business combination. The fair value of the goodwill is implied from this allocation and compared to the carrying value with an impairment loss recognized if the carrying value is greater than the implied fair value. We base our fair value estimates, in large part, on management business plans and projected financial information which are subject to a high degree of management judgment and complexity. Actual results may differ from projections, and the differences may be material. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. Provision has not been made for income taxes on unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these earnings are deemed to be permanently reinvested. We recognize income tax positions that meet the more likely than not threshold and accrue interest and potential penalties related to unrecognized income tax positions which are recorded as a component of the provision (benefit) for income taxes. The calculation of tax assets, liabilities, and expenses under GAAP is largely dependent on management judgment of the current and future deductibility and utilization of taxable expenses and benefits using a more likely than not threshold. Specifically, the realization of deferred tax assets and the certainty of tax positions taken are largely dependent upon management weighting the current positive and negative evidence for recording tax benefits and expenses. Additionally, many of our positions are based on future estimates of 26 Table of Contents taxable income and deductibility of tax positions. Particularly, our assertion of permanent reinvestment of foreign undistributed earnings is largely based on managements future estimates of domestic and foreign cash flows and current strategic foreign investment plans. In the event that the actual outcome from future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions or management plans and positions are amended, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and financial position. (See Notes 1 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We did not record a U.S. deferred tax liability for the excess of the book basis over the tax basis of our investments in foreign subsidiaries to the extent the foreign earnings meet the indefinite reversal criteria. As of the year ended December 31, 2017, we consider the unremitted foreign earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be reinvested indefinitely. We base this assertion on two factors. First, our intention to invest in foreign countries that are strategically important to our Autocam Precision Components Group and our customers. With the acquisitions completed in 2015 and 2014, we have expanded our domestic and international base of operations adding subsidiaries in Mexico and China, which will require more foreign investment. Second, we have sufficient access to funds in the U.S. through projected free cash flows and the availability of our credit facilities to fund currently anticipated domestic operational and investment needs. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-lived tangible and intangible assets subject to amortization are tested for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. A test for recoverability is also performed when management has committed to a plan to dispose of a reporting unit or asset group. Assets to be held and used are tested for recoverability when indications of impairment are evident. Recoverability of a long-lived tangible or intangible asset is evaluated by comparing its carrying value to the future estimated undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group. If the asset is not recoverable, the asset is considered impaired and adjusted to fair value which is then depreciated or amortized over its remaining useful life. Assets to be disposed of are recorded at the lesser of carrying value or fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing potential impairment for long-lived assets, we consider forecasted financial performance based, in large part, on management business plans and projected financial information which are subject to a high degree of management judgment and complexity. Future adverse changes in market conditions or adverse operating results of the underlying assets could result in having to record additional impairment charges not previously recognized. Critical Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted Revenue Recognition. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued a new standard that provides a single, comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers and supersedes most of the existing revenue recognition requirements. Under the new guidance, revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration the entity expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also requires disclosure of the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Factors affecting implementation include, but are not limited to, identifying all the contracts that exist and whether incidental obligations or marketing incentives included in some of those contracts are performance obligations. Additionally, we evaluated the transfer of control of certain consignment and tooling contracts which may impact the timing of revenue recognition under the new standard. The standard is effective for us beginning January 1, 2018, with full retrospective or modified retrospective adoption permitted. We will adopt the standard utilizing the modified retrospective transition method. Under this transition method, we will recognize the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2018, and will apply the new standard beginning with the most current period presented to contracts that are not completed at the date of initial application. We expect the adoption adjustment to be less than $0.1 million, which represents the net profit on certain contracts that were accounted for on a consignment basis prior to the new guidance but do not meet the consignment criteria under the new standard. We expect to utilize certain practical expedients allowed by the new standard. We intend to utilize the portfolio approach practical expedient to evaluate sales-related discounts on a portfolio basis to contracts with similar characteristics. We expect that the effect on our financial statements of applying the portfolio approach would not differ materially from applying the new standard to individual contracts. While our ability to adopt the standard using the modified retrospective method depends on system readiness and completing our analysis of information necessary to present required footnote disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, the implementation project remains on schedule. We have completed a diagnostic accounting assessment, including an analysis of a representative sample of contracts, to identify areas that will be most significantly impacted by implementation of the new standard. We have also completed training to educate contract managers of the technical aspects of the new standard. We have documented our assessments related to the standard as well as system and procedural changes. Based on our analysis, we do not expect the new standard to have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Leases. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases . ASU 2016-02 creates Topic 842, Leases, in the ASC and supersedes ASC 840, Leases. Entities that hold numerous equipment and real estate leases, in particular those with numerous operating leases, will be most affected by the new guidance. The lease accounting standard is effective for NN beginning January 1, 2019, with modified retrospective adoption required and early adoption permitted. The amendments in ASU 2016-02 are expected to impact balance sheets at many companies by adding lease-related assets and liabilities. This may affect compliance with contractual agreements and loan covenants. We have performed inquiries within segment locations and compiled information on operating and capital leases. We are currently evaluating the impacts of the lease accounting standard on our financial position, results of operations, and related disclosures. Upon adoption, we expect to recognize a right-of-use asset and a lease liability for nearly all of our leases that are currently classified as operating leases and are therefore not recorded on the balance sheet. Note 14 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements presents future minimum lease payments under leases that are currently accounted for as off-balance sheet operating leases. We are in the process of gathering information that will enable us to estimate the amounts of those assets and liabilities. Results of Operations Factors That May Influence Results of Operations The following paragraphs describe factors that have influenced results of operations for 2017 that management believes are important to provide an understanding of the business and results of operations. Discontinued Operations On August 17, 2017, we completed the sale of our PBC Business to Tsubaki for a base purchase price of $375.0 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. After working capital and other closing adjustments, the final cash purchase price was approximately $388.5 million. The PBC Business included all our facilities that were engaged in the production of precision steel balls, steel rollers, and metal retainers and automotive specialty products used primarily in the bearing industry. The PBC Business represented all of the PBC reportable segment disclosed in our historical financial statements. The sale of the PBC Business furthers managements long-term strategy to build a diversified industrial business with a comprehensive geographic footprint in attractive high-growth market segments. We recorded an after-tax gain on sale of $127.7 million, which is included in the Income from discontinued operations, net of tax line on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2017. In accordance with ASC 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements Discontinued Operations, the operating results of PBC are classified as discontinued operations. The presentation of discontinued operations includes revenues and expenses of the discontinued operations and gain on the disposition of the business, net of tax, as one line item on the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income. All Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income presented have been revised to reflect this presentation. Accordingly, results of the PBC Business have been excluded from continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes unless otherwise stated. Refer to Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. Debt Refinancing On April 3, 2017, we redeemed our 10.25% senior notes due 2020 (the Senior Notes) for $281.6 million resulting in a loss on debt extinguishment of $36.3 million, including $31.6 million cash paid for the call premium and a $4.7 million non-cash write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. The Senior Notes were redeemed and the call premium was paid with the proceeds of a new $300.0 million Incremental Term Loan that was added by amendment to our existing credit facility. The Incremental Term Loan matures on April 3, 2021, with payments of $3.0 million due quarterly. The amendment also reduced our Senior Secured Revolver from $143.0 million to $100.0 million until such time as a leverage ratio covenant threshold has been met for four consecutive fiscal quarters. Upon satisfaction of the ratio threshold, our Senior Secured Revolver may be restored to $143.0 million. In connection with the amendment, we paid $6.5 million in debt issuance costs of which we recorded $4.0 million as a direct reduction to the carrying amount of the associated debt and $2.5 million as a loss on modification of the Senior Secured Term Loan. Debt issuance costs related to the amendment were paid with proceeds from the Incremental Term Loan. Also in connection with the amendment, we wrote off $0.8 million of unamortized debt issuance costs related to the modification of the Senior Secured Revolver. 28 Table of Contents On November 24, 2017, we further amended our existing credit facility to reduce the interest rate by 50 basis points on the Senior Secured Term Loan and the Incremental Term Loan. The interest rate on the Senior Secured Term Loan decreased from the London Inter Bank Offering Rate (LIBOR) plus 4.25% to LIBOR plus 3.75%. The interest rate on the Incremental Term loan decreased from LIBOR plus 3.75% to LIBOR plus 3.25%. In connection with the amendment, we paid $2.1 million in debt issuance costs, which we recorded as a loss on modification of debt. Debt issuance costs related to the amendment were paid with cash on hand. Also in connection with the amendment, we wrote off $0.3 million of unamortized debt issuance costs related to the modification. Prior Periods Financial Statement Revision Financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, as well as financial statements for the interim periods in 2017 and 2016, have been revised to correct for prior period errors primarily related to the (i) accounting for income and franchise taxes, (ii) accounting for the gain on the disposition of the PBC Business; (iii) accounting for indemnification assets related to a prior acquisition, (iv) accounting for foreign currency transactions, (v) accounting for the translation of foreign subsidiary assets and joint ventures, and (vi) other immaterial errors, including errors that had previously been adjusted for as out of period corrections in the period identified. The impact of these error corrections and the resulting revision is reflected throughout this Annual Report on 10-K. Acquisitions On October 2, 2017, we acquired 100% of the membership interests of Vandalia for approximately $38.7 million in cash, subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Vandalia is a supplier of precision manufactured medical instruments and orthopedic implants with locations in Ohio and Pennsylvania. Operating results of Vandalia after the acquisition date are reported in our Precision Engineered Products Group. We incurred approximately $0.3 million in acquisition related costs with respect to Vandalia during 2017. On October 19, 2015, we completed the PEP Acquisition for $619.6 million in cash. We financed the PEP Acquisition with new debt. On May 29, 2015, we completed the acquisition of Caprock for approximately $9.1 million in cash. Operating results of PEP and Caprock after their respective acquisition dates are reported in our Precision Engineered Products Group. We incurred, in the aggregate, approximately $11.7 million in acquisition related costs in 2015. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the Act). The Act reduces the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that were previously tax deferred, and creates new taxes on certain foreign sourced earnings. As a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, we recognized a $51.8 million net tax benefit in 2017. At December 31, 2017, we have made a reasonable estimate of the effects on the one-time transition tax and included this in our provisional amount. The ultimate impact could possibly differ materially from this provisional amount due to, among other things, additional analysis, changes in interpretations and assumptions we have made, and additional interpretive regulatory guidance that may be issued. In accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, we may record additional provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date of the Act. The accounting is expected to be complete when our 2017 U.S. corporate income tax return is filed in 2018, and any measurement period adjustments will be recognized as income tax expense or benefit in 2018. 29 Table of Contents Financial Data as a Percentage of Net Sales The following table sets forth for the periods indicated selected financial data and the percentage of our net sales represented by each income statement line item presented. Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 (1) 2015 (1) Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 74.1 % 73.3 % 79.1 % Selling, general and administrative expense 12.0 % 11.0 % 8.6 % Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 0.1 % 0.0 % 2.9 % Depreciation and amortization 8.5 % 8.7 % 8.1 % Other operating expense (income) 0.1 % 0.1 % 0.0 % Restructuring and integration expense 0.1 % 1.0 % 1.3 % Income (loss) from operations 5.3 % 5.9 % 0.0 % Interest expense 8.4 % 10.7 % 7.3 % Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs 6.8 % 0.4 % 4.7 % Derivative payments on interest rate swap 0.0 % 0.1 % 0.0 % Derivative loss (gain) on change in interest rate swap fair value 0.0 % 0.4 % 0.0 % Other (income) expense, net -0.3 % -0.5 % 0.1 % Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture -9.5 % -5.3 % -12.1 % Benefit for income taxes 12.8 % 2.6 % 4.9 % Share of net income from joint venture 0.8 % 1.0 % 1.2 % Income (loss) from continuing operations 4.1 % -1.6 % -6.0 % Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 22.2 % 2.8 % 4.4 % Net income (loss) 26.3 % 1.1 % -1.6 % (1) Includes the reclassification of discontinued operations and the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 2 and Note 21, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report Sales Concentration During 2017, sales to various U.S. and foreign divisions of our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 46% of our consolidated net sales. However, no customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net sales for 2017. The loss of all or a substantial portion of sales to these customers would cause us to lose a substantial portion of our revenue and have a corresponding negative impact on our income from operations due to the operational leverage these customers provide. This could lead to sales volumes not being high enough to cover our current cost structure or to provide adequate operating cash flows or cause us to incur additional restructuring and/or impairment costs. 30 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2017, Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2016 The year ended December 31, 2017, was significantly impacted by certain costs related to current and past acquisitions as well as refinancing our debt portfolio as well as the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The following table summarizes these costs. Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs $ 42,087 Intangible asset amortization cost related to acquisition activities 23,460 Acquisition related costs 344 Restructuring and integration expense 386 Foreign exchange loss on inter-company charges 258 Estimated tax effect of identified items at an assumed rate of 37% (24,618 ) Impact of Tax Act (51,822 ) Total impact on income from continuing operations $ (9,905 ) Overall Consolidated Results Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 (1) $ Change Net sales $ 619,793 $ 584,954 $ 34,839 Acquisitions $ 6,682 Volume 25,944 Foreign exchange effects 1,956 Price/mix/inflation/other 257 Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 459,080 428,843 30,237 Acquisitions $ 6,204 Volume 17,704 Foreign exchange effects 1,796 Cost reduction projects (3,150 ) Mix/inflation/other 7,683 Selling, general and administrative expense 74,112 64,144 9,968 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 344 344 Depreciation and amortization 52,406 50,721 1,685 Loss (gain) on disposal of assets 351 809 (458 ) Restructuring and integration expense 386 5,658 (5,272 ) Income from operations 33,114 34,779 (1,665 ) Interest expense 52,085 62,870 (10,785 ) Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs 42,087 2,589 39,498 Derivative payments on interest rate swap 609 (609 ) Derivative loss (gain) on change in interest rate swap fair value (101 ) 2,448 (2,549 ) Other (income) expense, net (2,084 ) (2,871 ) 787 Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (58,873 ) (30,866 ) (28,007 ) Benefit for income taxes 79,026 15,438 63,588 Share of net income from joint venture 5,211 5,938 (727 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 25,364 (9,490 ) 34,854 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 137,688 16,153 121,535 Net income $ 163,052 $ 6,663 $ 156,389 (1) Includes the effects of discontinued operations and prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 2 and Note 21, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report 31 Table of Contents Net Sales . Net sales increased by $34.8 million, or 6.0%, in 2017 compared to 2016 primarily due to increased volumes. The higher volumes were primarily due to demand improvements within the life sciences end market, the automotive end market, and the general industrial end market. Additionally, sales from the Vandalia business that we acquired on October 2, 2017, contributed $6.7 million to 2017 sales. The appreciation of the Chinese renminbi and the euro in relation to the U.S. dollar in 2017 also increased net sales year over year. Overall, net sales increased from 2016 to 2017 by $24.1 million for the Precision Engineered Products Group and $10.7 million for the Autocam Precision Components Group. Cost of Sales. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the increase in demand and production volumes as well as changes in product mix and start-up costs for certain new products. Cost of sales for Vandalia contributed $6.2 million to the 2017 increase, which includes a one-time $0.9 million charge for stating inventories at fair value in connection with purchase accounting. Increases were partially offset by cost savings from production process improvement projects. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. The majority of the increase in selling, general and administrative expense during 2017 compared to 2016 was due to infrastructure and staffing costs incurred related to our strategic initiatives, including a global implementation of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. Acquisition Related Costs Excluded from Selling, General and Administrative. Acquisition related costs are primarily third party legal, accounting, valuation consulting and investment banking advisory fees incurred directly related to the Vandalia acquisition in 2017. Depreciation and Amortization. The slight increase in depreciation and amortization in 2017 was consistent with additions to property, plant and equipment. The expected increase was partially offset by a decrease of $2.5 million related to amortization in 2016 of backlog and unfavorable leasehold intangibles acquired with the PEP Acquisition. These intangibles became fully amortized in the first quarter of 2016. The Vandalia business contributed $0.6 million of depreciation and amortization expense to 2017. This additional depreciation and amortization includes the related step-ups of certain property, plant and equipment to fair value and the addition of intangible assets principally for customer relationships and trade names. Restructuring and Integration Expense. The decrease in restructuring and integration expense was primarily due to limited spending on site closure costs in 2017 compared to $4.3 million of cost incurred in 2016 to close a plant in Wheeling, Illinois, in our Autocam Precision Components Group. Interest Expense . Interest expense decreased by $10.8 million in 2017 due to the redemption of the Senior Notes on April 3, 2017, with the proceeds of the Incremental Term Loan, which bears a lower interest rate based on LIBOR. Further interest savings resulted from the refinancing of the Senior Secured Term Loan and Senior Secured Revolver in the third quarter of 2016 and further refinancing of the Senior Secured Term Loan and the Incremental Term Loan on November 24, 2017. Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 Interest on debt $ 48,870 $ 58,898 Interest rate swaps settlements 1,393 Amortization of debt issuance costs 4,296 4,168 Capitalized interest (1) (1,081 ) (1,589 ) Total interest expense $ 52,085 $ 62,870 (1) Capitalized interest primarily relates to equipment construction efforts at various plants. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt and Write-off of Unamortized Debt Issuance Costs . We wrote off $39.6 million as a result of the extinguishment of the Senior Notes and modification of our credit facility in April 2017. We wrote off an additional $2.4 million as a result of refinancing our credit facility to achieve a lower interest rate in November 2017. Derivative Loss (Gain) on Change in Interest Rate Swap Fair Value. During the third quarter of 2016, we chose to discontinue hedge accounting. As a result, all amounts of accumulated other comprehensive income were reclassified to earnings. Benefit for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 134.2% in 2017 compared to 50.0% for 2016. Note 11 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the components of income taxes for each period presented. Income from Continuing Operations. Benefit for income taxes increased by $63.6 million primarily as a result of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. Income from operations of $33.1 million for 2017 was more than offset by the loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance cost and interest expense. Also, acquisition related costs accounted for a $0.3 million reduction in income from operations as compared to 2016. The $10.8 million reduction in interest expense also contributed to income from continuing operations. Significant components of the changes in income from operations and interest expense were presented in the preceding paragraphs. 32 Table of Contents Income from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax. The largest component of income from discontinued operations in 2017 was the $127.7 million gain on sale of our PBC Business, net of tax. Note 2 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides details of the results of discontinued operations. Results by Segment AUTOCAM PRECISION COMPONENTS GROUP Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change Net sales $ 336,852 $ 326,138 $ 10,714 Volume $ 9,963 Foreign exchange effects 2,213 Price/mix/inflation/other (1,462 ) Income from operations $ 34,405 $ 29,490 (1) $ 4,915 (1) Includes the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Net sales increased in 2017 from 2016 due to industrial market demand improvements in the US and China and new automotive program launches in the US, China and Brazil. We are realizing the indirect benefits of our customers taking an increasing portion of market share. Also, as the Brazilian economy rebounds, demand for automotive products is increasing. The increase in net sales contributed to the increase in income from operations. Cost reduction projects resulted in savings in cost of sales of approximately $1.6 million in 2017 compared to 2016. Restructuring costs decreased by $4.0 million, primarily related to the closure of a plant in Wheeling, Illinois. These factors that increased income from operations were slightly offset by start-up costs for new products and a $2.3 million increase in depreciation and amortization consistent with recent capital expenditure activity. PRECISION ENGINEERED PRODUCTS GROUP Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change Net sales $ 282,941 $ 258,816 $ 24,125 Acquisitions $ 6,682 Volume 15,981 Foreign exchange effects (257 ) Price/mix/inflation/other 1,719 Income from operations $ 36,711 $ 33,900 (1) $ 2,811 (1) Includes the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Net sales increased in 2017 from 2016 primarily due to the overall improvement in demand across the life sciences end market and sales to new customers within the aerospace and defense market. In addition to overall life sciences market improvement, we have achieved increases in market share for certain medical devices. We have also benefited from the introduction of new products for the aerospace and defense end market. Sales from the Vandalia business acquired on October 2, 2017, contributed $6.7 million to 2017 sales. 33 Table of Contents The increase in net sales contributed to the increase in income from operations. Cost of sales increased at a rate consistent with net sales. The increase from additional sales volumes was offset by a shift in product mix toward higher cost raw materials and new program setup costs for certain products sold into the aerospace and defense end market. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2016, we recognized $2.5 million of amortization expense related to backlog and unfavorable leasehold intangibles which was fully amortized in 2016 and therefore did not impact 2017. Likewise, $1.3 million of restructuring cost was incurred in 2016 related to restructuring after the PEP Acquisition. Year Ended December 31, 2016, Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2015 The year ended December 31, 2016, was significantly impacted by certain costs related to past acquisitions and higher debt levels. The following table summarizes these costs. Intangible asset amortization cost related to acquisition activities $ 25,998 Restructuring and integration expense 5,658 Write-off of interest rate swap 3,785 Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs 2,589 Foreign exchange loss on inter-company charges (1,310 ) Estimated tax effect of identified items at an assumed rate of 37% (13,586 ) Total impact on loss from continuing operations $ 23,134 34 Table of Contents Overall Consolidated Results Year Ended December, 31 2016 (1) 2015 (1) $ Change Net sales $ 584,954 $ 405,443 $ 179,511 Acquisitions $ 192,182 Sale of a plant (8,173 ) Volume 6,995 Foreign exchange effects (3,090 ) Price/mix/inflation/other (8,403 ) Cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below) 428,843 320,632 108,211 Acquisitions $ 119,157 Sale of a plant (6,375 ) Volume 2,109 Foreign exchange effects (2,427 ) Cost reduction projects (17,840 ) Mix/inflation/other 13,587 Selling, general and administrative expense 64,144 34,873 29,271 Acquisitions 15,154 Foreign exchange effects (291 ) Strategic initiatives and other 14,408 Acquisition related costs excluded from selling, general and administrative expense 11,682 (11,682 ) Depreciation and amortization 50,721 32,973 17,748 Loss (gain) on disposal of assets 809 (24 ) 833 Restructuring and integration expense 5,658 5,249 409 Income from operations 34,779 58 34,721 Interest expense 62,870 29,582 33,288 Loss on extinguishment of debt and write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs 2,589 19,173 (16,584 ) Derivative payments on interest rate swap 609 609 Derivative loss on change in interest rate swap fair value 2,448 2,448 Other (income) expense, net (2,871 ) 521 (3,392 ) Loss from continuing operations before benefit for income taxes and share of net income from joint venture (30,866 ) (49,218 ) 18,352 Benefit for income taxes 15,438 19,842 (4,404 ) Share of net income from joint venture 5,938 5,001 937 Loss from continuing operations (9,490 ) (24,375 ) 14,885 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax 16,153 17,889 (1,736 ) Net income (loss) $ 6,663 $ (6,486 ) $ 13,149 (1) Includes the reclassification of discontinued operations and the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 2 and Note 21, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report Net Sales. Net sales increased during 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to sales in our PEP business that was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2015. Partially offsetting these increases were both the sale of the Delta Rubber plant in November 2015 and the impact of devaluation of the euro and other currency denominated sales. Additionally, we had lower sales prices and changes in product mix, offset by increased volumes. The reduction in value relates to global industrial weakness partially offset by growth in the markets we serve. 35 Table of Contents Cost of Sales. The increase in cost of sales was primarily due to the addition of production costs from the acquired PEP business. Partially offsetting these increases was the impact of the devaluation of the euro and other currency denominated costs. Additionally, we experienced savings from cost reduction projects that were partially offset by changes in product mix and volume increases. Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Approximately $15.0 million of the increase during 2016 was due to selling, general and administrative costs from the acquired PEP business. Additionally, administrative costs were incurred for infrastructure and staffing costs related to our strategic initiatives. Acquisition Related Costs Excluded from Selling, General and Administrative Expense. Acquisition related costs are third party legal, accounting, valuation consulting and investment banking advisory fees incurred directly related to the PEP Acquisition and the Caprock acquisition in 2015. Depreciation and Amortization. The increase in 2016 was primarily due to $17.0 million of depreciation and amortization from the acquired PEP and Caprock businesses. This additional depreciation and amortization includes the related step-ups of certain property, plant and equipment to fair value and the addition of intangible assets principally for customer relationships and trade names related to the purchase price allocation of the new acquisitions. Restructuring and Integration Expense. Restructuring and integration activity in 2016 primarily consisted of the closure of a plant in Wheeling, Illinois, in our Autocam Precision Components Group and integration of the PEP business that was acquired in the fourth quarter of 2015. Restructuring and integration activity in 2015 consisted of site closure and PEP integration as well as $1.8 million for an abandoned accounting and reporting system implementation. Interest Expense . Interest expense increased in 2016 due to new debt to finance the PEP Acquisition and the Caprock acquisition. Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 Interest on debt $ 58,898 $ 29,203 Interest rate swaps settlements 1,393 Amortization of debt issuance costs 4,168 1,754 Capitalized interest (1) (1,589 ) (1,375 ) Total interest expense $ 62,870 $ 29,582 (1) Capitalized interest primarily relates to equipment construction efforts at various plants. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt and Write-off of Unamortized Debt Issuance Costs . We wrote off debt issuance costs in 2016 and 2015 due to the debt restructurings that occurred in each year. Derivative Loss on Change in Interest Rate Swap Fair Value. During the third quarter of 2016, we chose to discontinue hedge accounting. As a result, all amounts of accumulated other comprehensive income were reclassified to earnings. Benefit for Income Taxes. Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 50.0% in 2016 compared to 40.3% for 2015. The effective tax rate in 2016 was higher due to the proportionate share of income from foreign entities and the utilization of net operating losses in the U.S. Loss from Continuing Operations. The PEP and Caprock businesses acquired in 2015 contributed $35.4 million to income from operations in 2016 and had a loss from operations in 2015 of $4.5 million after the acquisition date of each business. This increase was offset by increased interest expense related to the debt restructuring in 2016. Significant components of the changes in income from operations and interest expense were presented in the preceding paragraphs. 36 Table of Contents Results by Segment AUTOCAM PRECISION COMPONENTS GROUP Year Ended December, 31 2016 2015 $ Change Net sales $ 326,138 $ 328,260 $ (2,122 ) Volume $ 6,995 Foreign exchange effects (3,090 ) Price/mix/inflation/other (6,027 ) Income from operations (1) $ 29,490 $ 30,810 $ (1,320 ) (1) Includes the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The decrease in net sales in 2016 was due to the devaluation of the Brazilian real and changes to the product mix, partially offset by the increase in volume. The growth in volume was a result of increased demand for automotive products related to Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) efforts. The decrease in income from operations was due to restructuring charges in 2016 related to our Wheeling, Illinois, plant closure of $4.3 million. The decrease was partially offset by increased income from higher sales volumes and continuous improvement initiatives. PRECISION ENGINEERED PRODUCTS GROUP Year Ended December, 31 2016 2015 $ Change Net sales $ 258,816 $ 77,183 $ 181,633 Acquisitions $ 192,182 Sale of a plant (8,173 ) Price/mix/inflation/other (2,376 ) Income from operations (1) $ 33,900 $ (3,806 ) $ 37,706 (1) Includes the effects of prior periods revisions as disclosed in Note 21 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. The increase in net sales and income from operations was due primarily to the acquisition of PEP and was partially offset by the sale of Delta Rubber in the fourth quarter of 2015. Changes in Financial Condition from December 31, 2016, to December 31, 2017 From December 31, 2016, to December 31, 2017, total assets increased by $116.7 million. Cash proceeds of $387.6 million from the sale of the PBC Business was the primary contributor to the increase in assets. Income tax receivable increased by $41.5 million due to excess estimated tax payments primarily related to the sale of the PBC Business. The Vandalia acquisition contributed $40.5 million in assets in 2017. We also experienced increases in accounts receivable at the Autocam Precision Components Group and the Precision Engineered Products Group as sales grew. Days inventory outstanding increased slightly by approximately four days due to normal inventory building activity as we prepare to fulfill customer orders. The increases in cash, income tax receivable, accounts receivable, and inventory were partially offset by the carrying value of current and noncurrent assets of discontinued operations as of December 31, 2016, which were sold in the sale of the PBC Business and are therefore no longer a component of total assets as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, current assets decreased by $106.7 million and noncurrent assets decreased by $103.9 million 37 Table of Contents compared to December 31, 2016, due to the sale of the PBC Business. Also offsetting the increase in cash was a $16.6 million decrease in intangible assets due to normal amortization. Foreign exchange translation impacted total assets in comparing changes in account balances from December 31, 2016, to December 31, 2017, by increasing total assets by $8.6 million, of which $3.4 million related to current assets. From December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017, total liabilities decreased by $60.0 million. Total liabilities decreased by the carrying value of current and noncurrent liabilities of discontinued operations as of December 31, 2016, which were assumed by the acquirer in the sale of the PBC Business and are therefore no longer a component of total liabilities as of December 31, 2017. Accordingly, current liabilities decreased by $45.2 million and noncurrent liabilities decreased by $12.6 million compared to December 31, 2016, due to the sale of the PBC Business. The decrease related to discontinued operations was partially offset by increases in debt and accounts payable. Total debt increased by $9.6 million as a result of the redemption of our Senior Notes with the proceeds of a new $300.0 million Incremental Term Loan in April 2017, net of the effect of paying down the Senior Secured Revolver using cash generated from operations and a portion of the cash proceeds from the sale of the PBC Business. We also experienced increases in accounts payable at the Autocam Precision Components Group and the Precision Engineered Products Group as sales grow. Foreign exchange translation impacted total liabilities in comparing changes in account balances from December 31, 2016, to December 31, 2017, by increasing total liabilities by $2.4 million, of which $1.7 million related to current liabilities. Working capital, which consists principally of cash, accounts receivable, inventories and other current assets offset by accounts payable, accrued payroll costs, current maturities of long-term debt and other current liabilities, was $368.9 million as of December 31, 2017, compared to $142.1 million as of December 31, 2016. The increase in working capital was due primarily to $387.6 million of cash proceeds from the sale of the PBC Business and increases in accounts receivable and inventories, as discussed above, slightly offset by an increase in accounts payable, also discussed above. The repayment of approximately $33.2 million of principal outstanding on our Senior Secured Revolver in August 2017 resulted in a reduction of working capital. The elimination of current assets of discontinued operations of $106.7 as of December 31, 2016, has the effect of decreasing working capital at December 31, 2017, compared to December 31, 2016, because they were sold in the sale of the PBC Business and are no longer a component of our current assets. The elimination of current liabilities of discontinued operations of $45.2 as of December 31, 2016, has the effect of increasing working capital at December 31, 2017, compared to December 31, 2016, because they were assumed by the acquirer in the sale of the PBC Business and are no longer a component of our current liabilities. Cash used by operating activities was $59.8 million in 2017 compared with cash provided by operating activities of $69.4 million in 2016. The difference was primarily due to the increase in income tax receivable as a result of excess estimated tax payments primarily related to the sale of the PBC Business and $31.6 million paid for the call premium on the redemption of the Senior Notes in April 2017. Cash provided by operating activities of $69.4 million in 2016 increased from cash provided by operating activities of $33.3 million in 2015. The increase was primarily due to a full year of results of operations from late 2015 acquisitions, offset by higher interest costs incurred on debt used to finance the acquisitions. Cash provided by operating activities for discontinued operations was $14.4 million, $17.3 million, and $9.7 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Cash provided by investing activities was $282.5 million in 2017 compared with cash used by investing activities of $41.2 million in 2016. The difference was primarily due to proceeds from the sale of the PBC Business in August 2017. Cash used by investing activities of $41.2 million in 2016 decreased from cash used by investing activities of $665.8 million in 2015. The decrease was due to no acquisitions made in 2016 while capital expenditures remained within planned amounts. Cash used by investing activities for discontinued operations was $7.1 million, $11.8 million, and $15.0 million in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. Cash used by financing activities was $14.3 million in 2017 compared with cash used by financing activities of $24.5 million in 2016. The difference was primarily due to net proceeds of debt to fund the Senior Notes call premium in 2017. Cash used by financing activities of $24.5 million in 2016 decreased from cash provided by financing activities of $611.6 million in 2015. The decrease was primarily related to obtaining financing for 2015 acquisitions compared to a year of debt repayments in 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Aggregate principal amounts outstanding under the Senior Secured Term Loan and Incremental Term Loan as of December 31, 2017, were $825.3 million (without regard to debt issuance costs). We had no amounts outstanding on the Senior Secured Revolver at that time. As of December 31, 2017, we could borrow up to $97.6 million under the Senior Secured Revolver, subject to certain limitations. This amount of availability is net of $2.4 million of outstanding letters of credit at December 31, 2017, which are considered as usage of the Senior Secured Revolver. Collectively, our Senior Secured Term Loan, Incremental Term Loan, and Senior Secured Revolver is our credit facility. Our credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants based on a consolidated net leverage ratio, as defined in the credit facility agreement. The financial covenants are effective when we have outstanding amounts drawn on our Senior Secured Revolver on the last day of any fiscal quarter. We had no outstanding balance on the Senior Secured Revolver as of December 31, 2017, and were in compliance with all covenants under our credit facility. 38 Table of Contents The Senior Secured Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of $1.4 million through October 19, 2022, with the remaining principal amount due on the maturity date. If one-month LIBOR is less than 0.75%, then we pay 4.50% per annum in interest. If one-month LIBOR exceeds 0.75%, then we pay the variable one-month LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin of 3.75%. Based on the outstanding balance at December 31, 2017, annual interest payments would have been $28.4 million. The Incremental Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments of $3.0 million through April 3, 2021, with the remaining principal amount due on the maturity date. The Incremental Term Loan bears interest at the variable one-month LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin of 3.25%. Based on the outstanding balance at December 31, 2017, annual interest payments would have been $14 million. The Senior Secured Revolver bears interest at a rate of one-month LIBOR plus an applicable margin of 3.50%. We had no outstanding balance at December 31, 2017. We pay a quarterly commitment fee at an annual rate of 0.5% on the Senior Secured Revolver for unused capacity. The Senior Notes were paid in full on April 3, 2017, with proceeds from the Incremental Term Loan. The Senior Notes bore interest at 10.25% payable semi-annually in arrears on May 1 and November 1 of each year. Upon redemption of the Senior Notes, we paid interest of $10.8 million for the period November 1, 2016 through April 3, 2017. We believe that funds generated from our consolidated continuing operations and existing cash will provide sufficient cash flow to service the required debt and interest payments under our existing credit facility. The absence of cash flows from discontinued operations is not expected to significantly affect our ability to service our debt. Our arrangements with customers typically provide that payments are due within 30 to 60 days following the date of shipment. We invoice and receive payment from many of our customers in euros as well as other currencies. Additionally, we are party to various third party and intercompany loans, payables and receivables denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As a result of these sales, loans, payables and receivables, our foreign exchange transaction and translation risk has increased. Various strategies to manage this risk are available to management, including producing and selling in local currencies and hedging programs. As of December 31, 2017, no currency hedges were in place. In addition, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar and/or euro against foreign currencies could impair our ability to compete with international competitors for foreign as well as domestic sales. For the next twelve months, we expect capital expenditures to remain relatively consistent, the majority of which relate to new or expanded business or continuous improvement programs. We believe that funds generated from continuing operations and borrowings from the credit facility will be sufficient to finance capital expenditures and working capital needs through this period. The absence of cash flows from discontinued operations is not expected to significantly affect our ability to finance capital expenditures or working capital needs. We base these assertions on current availability for borrowing of up to $97.6 million, existing cash of $224.4 million and forecasted positive cash flow from continuing operations for the next twelve months. The table below sets forth our contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2017: Payments Due by Period Certain Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years After 5 years Long-term debt including current portion $ 828,565 $ 17,283 $ 35,720 $ 775,562 $ Expected interest payments (1) 170,964 42,092 81,582 47,290 Operating leases 77,129 8,616 18,246 14,192 36,075 Transition tax on deferred foreign income 6,776 1,183 1,598 3,995 Capital leases 4,559 2,790 1,337 432 Total contractual cash obligations $ 1,087,993 $ 71,964 $ 138,483 $ 841,471 $ 36,075 (1) Substantially all of our debt is based on one-month LIBOR which is a variable rate. Amounts in this table are based on the rate in effect as of December 31, 2017. We have approximately $5.7 million in unrecognized tax benefits and related penalties and interest accrued within the liabilities section of our balance sheet. We are unsure when or if at all these amounts might be paid to U.S. and/or foreign taxing authorities. Accordingly, these amounts have been excluded from the table above. (See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 39 Table of Contents Functional Currencies We currently have operations in Brazil, China, France, Mexico, and Poland. The following table presents the functional currency of each of our foreign facilities. Location Functional Currency Brazil Real China Renminbi France Euro Mexico Peso Poland Zloty Seasonality and Fluctuation in Quarterly Results General economic conditions impact our business and financial results, and certain of our businesses experience seasonal and other trends related to the industries and end markets that they serve. For example, European sales are often weaker in the summer months as customers slow production, medical device sales are often stronger in the fourth calendar quarter, and sales to original equipment manufacturers are often stronger immediately preceding and following the launch of new products. However, as a whole, we are not materially impacted by seasonality. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on our financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources.