ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: "ability," "anticipate," "attempt," "believe," "can be," "continue," "could," "depend," "enable," "estimate," "expect," "extend," "grow," "if," "intend," "likely," "may," "objective," "ongoing," "plan," "possible," "potential," "predict," "project," "propose," "rely," "should," "target," "will," "would" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from the information expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that we have a reasonable basis for each forward-looking statement, we caution you that these statements are based on a combination of facts and factors currently known by us and our projections of the future, about which we cannot be certain. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: the size of our market opportunity; our ability to compete effectively against other providers of similar products and services, as well as competing technologies; applications and processes that will use lasers, including the suitability of our products; our ability to develop new technology, designs and applications for our lasers; the reduction in cost per brilliant watt and increase in power of semiconductor lasers going forward; the implementation of our business model and strategic plans, including estimates regarding future sales, revenues, expenses, capital requirements and stock performance; our future financial performance; fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other operating measures, particularly as a result of seasonality; the regulatory regime for our products and services, domestically and internationally; the adoption of our products or lasers generally and the growth of the laser market broadly and within specific industries; our utilization of vertical integration; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our foreign customers; the effect on our business of litigation to which we are or may become a party; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls necessary to accurately report our financial results and prevent fraud; future macroeconomic conditions; the sufficiency of our existing liquidity sources to meet our cash needs; and our ability to sustain and manage growth in our business. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors . In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of highpower semiconductor and fiber lasers. Our lasers are changing not only the way things are made but also the things that can be made. We design, develop and manufacture the critical elements of our lasers, and we believe our vertically integrated business model enables us to rapidly introduce innovative products, control our costs and protect our intellectual property. We function through a single operating segment in three primary markets: industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense. We sell our products worldwide. Based on customer location, we generated approximately 37% and 38% of our revenues from North America, approximately 33% and 36% of our revenues from China, and approximately 30% and 26% of our revenues from the rest of the world during each of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We had revenues of $41.9 million and $42.5 million , net income (loss) of $(1.2) million and $2.9 million , and an Adjusted EBITDA of $3.1 million and $6.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP measure, see NonGAAP Financial Information in the Results of Operations discussion following this overview. We primarily sell to three end markets: industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , approximately $18.1 million , $14.6 million and $9.2 million of revenues were derived from the industrial, 14 Table of Contents microfabrication, and aerospace and defense markets, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , approximately $19.1 million , $15.7 million and $7.7 million of revenues were derived from the industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense markets, respectively. Factors Affecting Our Performance Demand for our Semiconductor and Fiber Laser Solutions In order to continue to grow our revenues, we must continue to achieve design wins for our semiconductor and fiber lasers. We consider a design win to occur when a customer notifies us that it has selected one of our products to be incorporated into a product or system under development by such customer. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in the industrial and microfabrication markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for these customers products or services. In addition, in the aerospace and defense market, our business depends in large part on continued investment in laser technology by the U.S. government and its allies. Technology and New Product Development We invest heavily in the development of our semiconductor and fiber laser technologies to provide solutions to our current and future customers. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in research and development to achieve our technology and product roadmap. Our product development is targeted to specific sectors of the market where we believe the power and performance requirements of our products can provide the most benefit. We believe our close coordination with our customers regarding their future product requirements enhances the efficiency of our research and development expenditures. Manufacturing Costs and Gross Margins Our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, is impacted by our product sales mix, sales volumes, changes in average selling prices, or ASPs, production volumes, the corresponding absorption of manufacturing overhead expenses, production costs and manufacturing yields. Our product sales mix can affect gross profits due to variations in profitability related to product configurations and cost profiles, customer volume pricing, availability of competitive products in various markets, and new product introductions, among other factors. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model. Increases in sales and production volumes drive favorable absorption of fixed costs, improved manufacturing efficiencies and lower production costs. Gross margins may fluctuate from period to period depending on product mix and the level of capacity utilization. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 was 32.3% and 34.7% , respectively. Investment in Infrastructure We have made, and intend to continue to make, substantial investments in infrastructure that will impact our cost of revenues, operating expenses and capital expenditures. We intend to continue investing to support growth at our existing facilities in order to meet the demands of our customer base. In addition, we intend to expand existing and establish new facilities in the future to accommodate our growth at various locations around the world. We expect to incur substantial costs in connection with such expansion efforts, including leasehold improvements and equipment costs. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues can fluctuate with general economic trends, holidays in foreign countries such as Chinese New Year in the first quarter of our fiscal year, the timing of capital expenditures by our customers, and general economic trends. In addition, as is typical in our industry, we tend to recognize a larger percentage of our quarterly revenues in the last month of the quarter, which may impact our working capital trends. Components of Results of Operations We are organized as, and operate in, one segment: the design, development, manufacture and sale of high-power semiconductor and fiber lasers. The following discussion sets forth certain components of our statements of results of operations as well as significant factors that impact those items. Revenues Revenue is recognized when transfer of control to the customer occurs, in an amount reflecting the consideration to which we expect to be entitled. Our sales typically are made on a purchase order or similar basis rather than through long-term purchase contracts. 15 Table of Contents Erosion of ASPs of established products is typical in our industry, and the ASPs of our products generally decrease as our products mature. We may also negotiate discounted selling prices from time to time with certain customers that purchase higher volumes, or to penetrate new markets or applications. We expect revenues to continue to increase as we grow our volumes and continue to introduce new and higher value products. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists primarily of the cost of raw materials and components, direct labor expenses and manufacturing overhead. Cost of revenues includes compensation and other costs related to our manufacturing and service operations, facilities and equipment costs, shipping costs, cost of duties and tariffs, write-downs for inventory obsolescence and provisions for warranty obligations. Inventories are written down and charged to cost of revenues when identified as excess or obsolete. Given the fixed nature of our facilities and equipment costs, we expect gross margin to increase as revenues and volumes increase; however, gross margins may fluctuate from period to period depending on product mix and the level of capacity utilization. Operating Expenses Research and Development Our research and development expense consists primarily of compensation, development expenses related to the design of our products and certain components, allocated facilities and information technology costs, and the cost of materials and components to build prototype devices for testing. Costs related to product development are recorded as research and development expense in the period in which they are incurred. We expect that research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in developing new products and technologies. However, we expect research and development expense to decrease modestly as a percentage of revenues over the longer term as revenues grow, although research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales, General and Administrative Our sales and marketing expense consists primarily of costs related to compensation, trade shows, travel, allocated facilities and information technology costs, amortization of assets used for demonstration purposes, commissions and other sales and marketing expenses, including charges and benefits related to the change in allowance for doubtful accounts. Our general and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and associated costs for executive management, finance, legal and other administrative personnel, outside legal and professional fees, allocated facilities costs and other general corporate expenses. We expect sales, general and administrative expense will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow and incur the costs of compliance associated with being a publicly-traded company, including legal, audit, compliance and consulting fees. Although sales, general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses, over the long term, we expect sales, general and administrative expense to decrease modestly as a percentage of revenues as we scale with the growth of our business. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income (expense), net, primarily consists of interest income on our deposit accounts, net of interest expense on outstanding debt. Other Expense Other expense primarily relates to realized and unrealized gains and losses related to our foreign currency transactions and balances and other non-operating gains and losses. Income Tax Expense We record income tax expense for taxes in our foreign jurisdictions including China and Finland. We also record tax expense for uncertain tax positions taken and associated penalties and taxes. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, in assessing the extent to which a valuation allowance should be applied against our deferred tax assets. While earnings in 2018 in the U.S. resulted in the utilization of a portion of our accumulated net operating loss carry-forwards, due to the uncertainly with respect to their ultimate realizability, we continue to maintain a full valuation allowance as of March 31, 2019 . 16 Table of Contents Given our current earnings levels and anticipated future earnings, we believe that there is a reasonable possibility that we may utilize these tax assets, and within the next 12 months, sufficient positive evidence may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that a significant portion of the valuation allowance will no longer be needed. A release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 41,861 $ 42,467 $ (606 ) (1.4 )% Revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $0.6 million , or 1.4% compared to the same period in 2018 . The decrease is driven primarily by lower revenues in the industrial end market in China. Revenues from the industrial end market decrease d $1.0 million , or approximately 5% from the same period in 2018 . The decrease in revenue was driven by price reductions in China related to the lower-power segment of the market. Revenues from the microfabrication end market decreased $1.1 million or 7% . The decrease was driven by lower sales to customers for consumer electronics and semiconductor markets, primarily in North America and the rest of the world. Revenues from the aerospace and defense end market increase d $1.5 million , or 19% compared to the same period in 2018 . This increase was driven by higher revenues on our existing government contracts. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 28,347 $ 27,738 $ 609 2.2 % Gross profit $ 13,514 $ 14,729 $ (1,215 ) (8.2 )% Gross margin as % of revenue 32.3 % 34.7 % (2.4 )% Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased from 34.7% to 32.3% . The decline in gross margin was driven primarily by price declines for certain products serving the industrial market and impact of tariff costs, partially offset by product cost improvements and better product mix. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 6,422 $ 4,283 $ 2,139 49.9 % Research and development expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $2.1 million , or 49.9% , compared to the same period in 2018 . The increase was primarily related to higher compensation costs due to increased headcount and an 17 Table of Contents additional $0.5 million of stock-based compensation, higher materials and facilities expenses related to our continued investment in product development initiatives. Sales, General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales, general, and administrative $ 8,144 $ 6,238 $ 1,906 30.6 % Sales, general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.9 million , or 30.6% , compared to the same period in 2018 . The increase was primarily driven by higher compensation due to modest headcount growth and an additional $1.0 million of stock-based compensation. We also incurred increased costs for insurance and taxes related to being a public company, and higher marketing, personnel related and amortization expenses compared to the same period in 2018. Interest Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income (expense), net $ 750 $ (219 ) $ 969 NM Interest income, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.0 million compared to the net expense during the same period in 2018 . The net change was primarily driven by interest income generated on the cash we received in our 2018 initial and follow-on public offerings and a reduction in interest expense on our loan facilities which were paid off as of December 31, 2018 . Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Other income, net $ 820 $ 76 $ 744 NM The increase in other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily attributable to higher net unrealized and realized foreign exchange gains compared to the same period in 2018 , driven by foreign exchange rate fluctuations between the USD and the Chinese RMB. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2019 2018 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 1,753 $ 1,149 $ 604 52.6 % Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $0.6 million or 52.6% between the periods. Our tax expense is highly dependent upon the geographic mix of earnings, and is primarily related to operations in China and Finland. There is limited tax expense associated with our operations in the U.S. as we maintain a full valuation allowance against 18 Table of Contents our U.S. deferred tax assets. The increase was driven by decreased income from our U.S. operations relative to our foreign subsidiaries, which resulted in a higher effective tax rate during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . NonGAAP Financial Information We monitor Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial metric, to help us evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) adjusted for income tax expense, other nonoperating expense or income, net interest expense or income, depreciation and amortization, stockbased compensation and other special items as determined by management. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA is a meaningful measure of performance as it is commonly utilized by us and the investment community to analyze operating performance in our industry. The following table sets forth Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation from net income (loss), the most comparable GAAP measure, for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net income (loss) $ (1,235 ) $ 2,916 Income tax expense 1,753 1,149 Other income, net (820 ) (76 ) Interest (income) expense, net (750 ) 219 Depreciation and amortization 2,212 1,946 Stock-based compensation 1,909 162 Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,069 $ 6,316 Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our business that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure included in the table above, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. This non-GAAP financial measure should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. We believe that the nonGAAP measure disclosed herein is only useful as an additional tool to help management and investors make informed decisions about our financial and operating performance. By definition, nonGAAP measures do not give a full understanding of our performance. To be useful, they must be used in conjunction with the comparable GAAP measures. In addition, nonGAAP financial measures are not standardized. It may not be possible to compare our financial measures with other companies nonGAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. We strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had cash and cash equivalents of $142.4 million and $149.5 million as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , our principal uses of liquidity were to fund our working capital needs and purchase new capital equipment. To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been the net proceeds we received through sales of equity securities, borrowings under our credit facilities, and from our initial public offering and secondary offering, and payments received from customers for our products. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital to expand the commercialization of our products, fund our operations and further our research and development activities. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from period to period and will depend on many factors, including the timing and extent of spending on research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the continuing market acceptance of our products and ongoing investments to support the growth of our business. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources which could include equity, equitylinked and debt financing arrangements. 19 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (4,939 ) $ (4,170 ) Net cash used in investing activities (2,734 ) (3,390 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 442 (489 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 119 (16 ) Net decrease in cash $ (7,112 ) $ (8,065 ) Net Cash Used in Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash used in operating activities was $4.9 million which was primarily driven by $1.2 million of net loss reported for the period, noncash adjustments of $4.2 million related to depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, and other items. These items were partially offset by a $3.6 million increase in accounts receivable, due to the timing of sales and customer collections, and a $6.1 million increase in inventory to support new product introductions and future growth. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in operating activities was $4.2 million which was driven by $2.9 million of net income reported in the period, non-cash adjustments of $2.2 million related to depreciation, stock-based compensation, and other items. These items were offset by increases of $5.1 million in inventory, $4.7 million in accounts receivable, which grew to support higher revenue levels, and $1.1 million in other current assets driven by higher value-added taxes receivable. Those uses of cash were offset by a $1.3 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued expenses, largely driven by the timing of payments as well as costs accrued for but not yet paid related to preparation for our initial public offering. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash used in investing activities was $2.7 million which was primarily due to capital expenditures related to investments in manufacturing equipment and facilities in our worldwide operations, as well as continued investments in our patent portfolio. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities was $3.4 million which was primarily due to capital expenditures during the period related to expanding our manufacturing capacity, and purchases of new manufacturing and lab equipment. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash provided by financing activities was $0.4 million which was primarily driven by $0.5 million of proceeds from stock options exercised, partially offset by payments on our capital lease obligations. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in financing activities was $0.5 million which was due to payment of deferred offering costs related to our initial public offering. Credit Facilities The terms of our credit facilities arrangements were reported in our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2018 . There have been no material changes to those arrangements during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , and as of March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , we were in compliance with the covenants under our loan facilities. Contractual Obligations For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , there have been no material changes to our significant contractual obligations as previously disclosed in our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2018 . 20 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. We believe that our significant accounting policies, which are discussed in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements, and the accounting policies discussed below, involve a greater degree of complexity, involving management's judgments and estimates. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are critical to understanding our financial condition and historical and future results of operations: revenue recognition; inventory; and income taxes Other than the adoption of ASC 606 and the resulting changes to our revenue recognition policies as outlined below, there have been no other material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as previously disclosed in our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Revenue Recognition and Adoption of Topic 606 We adopted ASC 606 Revenue from Contracts with Customers using the cumulative effect method with a date of initial application of January 1, 2019. Therefore, the comparative period information has not been adjusted and continues to be reported under ASC 605 Revenue Recognition. The impact of adoption was immaterial, and we expect the impact of the adoption of the new standard to be immaterial to our consolidated financial statements on an ongoing basis. A majority of our revenue continues to be recognized at a point in time when control transfers based on the terms of the underlying contract. Revenue is recognized when control of the product is transferred to the customer (i.e., when our performance obligation is satisfied), in an amount reflecting the consideration to which we expect to be entitled, which typically occurs at shipment or delivery, depending on shipping terms. In order to achieve this core principle, we apply the following five step approach: (1) identify the contract with a customer, (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, (3) determine the transaction price, (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and (5) recognize revenue when a performance obligation is satisfied. We consider customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master sales agreements, to be the contracts with a customer. As part of our consideration of the contract, we evaluate certain factors including the customer's ability to pay (or credit risk). For each contract, we consider the promise to transfer products, each of which is distinct, as the identified performance obligations. As our standard payment terms are less than one year, we have elected the practical expedient under ASC 606-10-32-18 to not assess whether a contract has a significant financing component. Payment terms in excess of one year are evaluated as they occur. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct product based on its relative standalone selling price. Master sales agreements or purchase orders from customers could include a single product or multiple products. Regardless, the contracted price with the customer is agreed to at the individual product level outlined in the customer contract or purchase order. We do not bundle prices; however, we do negotiate with customers on pricing for the same products based on a variety of factors (e.g. level of contractual volume). We have concluded that the prices negotiated with each individual customer are representative of the stand-alone selling price of the product. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Since inception, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for another contractually narrow or limited purpose. 21 Table of Contents Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Newly-Adopted Standards The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2018-07, Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718) , in June 2018. ASU 2018-07 simplifies the accounting for share-based payments made to nonemployees so the accounting for such payments is substantially the same as those made to employees. We adopted ASU 2018-07 on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective approach with fair value measurement of unsettled liability-classified nonemployee awards, and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $161 thousand to beginning retained earnings. Issued Not Yet Adopted Standards The FASB issued ASU No. 201602, Leases (Topic 842) , in February 2016. ASU 201602 requires a lessee to recognize a right of use asset and a lease liability for virtually all leases, other than leases that meet the definition of shortterm. ASU 2016-02, as amended, is effective for annual reporting periods of emerging growth companies beginning after December 15, 2019. We expect to implement the provisions of ASU 201602, as amended, as of January 1, 2020. We are currently evaluating the impact of this ASU, as amended, and cannot reasonably estimate the quantitative impact on the financial statements at this time. However, we do expect the most significant effects to relate to the recognition of new right-of-use (ROU) assets and lease liabilities on our balance sheet for our facilities operating leases. In addition, we expect this ASU, as amended, to have significant additional disclosure requirements.