ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by the following words: "ability," "anticipate," "attempt," "believe," "can be," "continue," "could," "depend," "enable," "estimate," "expect," "extend," "grow," "if," "intend," "likely," "may," "plan," "possible," "potential," "predict," "projections," "rely," "should," "target," "will," "would" or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology, although not all forward-looking statements contain these words. These statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from the information expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Although we believe that we have a reasonable basis for each forward-looking statement, we caution you that these statements are based on a combination of facts and factors currently known by us and our projections of the future, about which we cannot be certain. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: the size of our market opportunity; our ability to compete effectively against other providers of similar products and services, as well as competing technologies; applications and processes that will use lasers, including the suitability of our products; our ability to develop new technology, designs and applications for our lasers; the reduction in cost per brilliant watt and increase in power of semiconductor lasers going forward; the implementation of our business model and strategic plans, including estimates regarding future sales, revenues, expenses, capital requirements and stock performance; our future financial performance; fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations and other operating measures, particularly as a result of seasonality; the regulatory regime for our products and services, domestically and internationally; the adoption of our products or lasers generally and the growth of the laser market broadly and within specific industries; our utilization of vertical integration; our ability to adequately protect our intellectual property rights; our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our foreign customers; the effect on our business of litigation to which we are or may become a party; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls necessary to accurately report our financial results and prevent fraud; future macroeconomic conditions; the sufficiency of our existing liquidity sources to meet our cash needs; and our ability to sustain and manage growth in our business. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. Overview We are a leading provider of highpower semiconductor and fiber lasers. Our lasers are changing not only the way things are made but also the things that can be made. We design, develop and manufacture the critical elements of our lasers, and we believe our vertically integrated business model enables us to rapidly introduce innovative products, control our costs and protect our intellectual property. We function through a single operating segment and, in 2017, sold our products to over 300 customers worldwide in three primary markets: industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense. We maintain our corporate headquarters in Vancouver, Washington. Our Vancouver facility includes semiconductor laser fabrication and packaging, fiber laser operations, corporate offices, sales and marketing, customer support, research and development, finance, accounting and administrative functions. Our Hillsboro, Oregon facility is primarily dedicated to highprecision packaging and activities for our aerospace and defense customers. We produce optical fiber products and perform research and development at our Lohja, Finland facility. We operate highvolume manufacturing, sales and service for our Chinese customers from our Shanghai, China facility. Due to our vertically integrated business model, we maintain a relatively high fixed manufacturing overhead. Our gross margin is therefore significantly affected by our sales volume, product mix, utilization of capacity and absorption of fixed manufacturing overhead expenses. We expect to continue to reduce the cost of our products by developing new semiconductor laser and fiber laser architectures, introducing new packaging technologies and increasing the use of automation in our manufacturing and packaging facilities. 15 We sell our products throughout the world primarily through our direct sales organization and also through our network of distributors and sales representatives. We have established, and expect to continue to broaden and deepen, relationships with our customers. We sell our products to customers that build their own systems which either incorporate our products or use our products as an energy or light source. Our sales cycle varies substantially, ranging from a period of a few weeks to as long as one year or more, but is typically several months. We sell our products worldwide. Based on customer location, we generated approximately 36% and 31% of our revenues from North America, approximately 38% and 41% of our revenues from China and approximately 26% and 28% of our revenues from the rest of the world during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. China is the largest geographic market for lasers globally. We established our operations in China in 2004 and believe our sales, marketing and production operations in China will continue to enable us to increase revenues from new and existing customers. We believe that our innovative approach of tailoring our platformbased highpower semiconductor and fiber laser solutions to the specific needs of our customers will allow us to grow our market share with existing customers and attract new customers worldwide. We had revenues of $51.0 million and $36.5 million , net income of $4.0 million and $2.2 million and an Adjusted EBITDA of $9.2 million and $6.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. We had revenues of $145.2 million and $101.1 million , net income of $11.6 million and $0.7 million and an Adjusted EBITDA of $24.0 million and $13.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. For a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income, the most comparable GAAP measure, see NonGAAP Financial Information. We primarily sell to three end markets: industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense. During the three months ended September 30, 2018 , approximately $20.9 million , $19.9 million and $10.2 million of revenues were derived from the industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense markets, respectively. During the three months ended September 30, 2017 , approximately $15.2 million , $16.4 million and $4.9 million of revenues were derived from the industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense markets, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , approximately $65.3 million , $55.0 million and $24.9 million of revenues were derived from the industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense markets, respectively. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , approximately $40.3 million , $45.7 million and $15.1 million of revenues were derived from the industrial, microfabrication, and aerospace and defense markets, respectively. Factors Affecting Our Performance Demand for our Semiconductor and Fiber Laser Solutions In order to continue to grow our revenues, we must continue to achieve design wins for our semiconductor and fiber lasers. We consider a design win to occur when a customer notifies us that it has selected one of our products to be incorporated into a product or system under development by such customer. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures by customers in the industrial and microfabrication markets, which, in turn, depend upon the demand for these customers products or services. In addition, in the aerospace and defense market, our business depends in large part on continued investment in laser technology by the U.S. government and its allies. Technology and New Product Development We invest heavily in the development of our semiconductor and fiber laser technologies to provide solutions to our current and future customers. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in research and development to achieve our technology and product roadmap. Our product development is targeted to specific sectors of the market where we believe the power and performance requirements of our products can provide the most benefit. We believe our close coordination with our customers regarding their future product requirements enhances the efficiency of our research and development expenditures. Manufacturing Costs and Gross Margins Our gross profit, in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues, is impacted by our product sales mix, sales volumes, changes in ASPs, production volumes, the corresponding absorption of manufacturing overhead expenses, production costs and manufacturing yields. Our product sales mix can affect gross profits due to variations in profitability related to product configurations and cost profiles, customer volume pricing, availability of competitive products in various markets, and new product introductions, among other factors. Capacity utilization affects our gross margin because we have a high fixed cost base due to our vertically integrated business model. Increases in sales and production volumes drive favorable absorption of fixed costs, improved manufacturing efficiencies and lower production costs. Gross margins may fluctuate from period to period depending on product mix and the level of capacity utilization. Our gross margins have been improving. Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2018 , increased to 35.4% from 33.8% during the same period in 2017 and for the nine months ended September 16 30, 2018 , gross margin increased to 34.7% from 31.6% during the same period in 2017 . However, during the second half of 2018, certain of our competitors have substantially reduced the price of their fiber lasers sold in the China market. In some instances, we have reduced the price of our fiber lasers sold in China, and may continue to do so as our competitors, and the industry generally, reduce the selling prices of fiber lasers. We believe that introducing new and higher value products, increasing the sales of our existing products, expanding into new applications and reducing our manufacturing costs will enable us to address recent declines in the average selling prices of certain of our fiber lasers and continue to grow our revenues and gross margin. Investment in Infrastructure We have made, and intend to continue to make, substantial investments in infrastructure that will impact our cost of revenues, operating expenses and capital expenditures. We intend to continue investing to support growth at our existing facilities in order to meet the demands of our customer base. In addition, we intend to expand existing and establish new facilities in the future to accommodate our growth at various locations around the world. We expect to incur substantial costs in connection with such expansion efforts, including leasehold improvements and equipment costs. Seasonality Our quarterly revenues can fluctuate with general economic trends, holidays in foreign countries such as Chinese New Year in the first quarter of our fiscal year, the timing of capital expenditures by our customers and general economic trends. In addition, as is typical in our industry, we tend to recognize a larger percentage of our quarterly revenues in the last month of the quarter, which may impact our working capital trends. Components of Results of Operations We are organized as, and operate in, one segment: the design, development, manufacture and sale of high-power semiconductor and fiber lasers. The following discussion sets forth certain components of our statements of results of operations as well as significant factors that impact those items. Revenues Sales of our products generally are recognized upon shipment or delivery, provided that the sales price is determinable, no obligation remains and collection is reasonably assured. Our sales typically are made on a purchase order or similar basis rather than through long-term purchase contracts. Erosion of ASPs of established products is typical in our industry, and the ASPs of our products generally decrease as our products mature. We may also negotiate discounted selling prices from time to time with certain customers that purchase higher volumes, or to penetrate new markets or applications. We expect revenues to continue to increase as we grow our volumes and continue to introduce new and higher value products. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Our cost of revenues consists primarily of the cost of raw materials and components, direct labor expenses and manufacturing overhead. Cost of revenues includes compensation and other costs related to our manufacturing and service operations, facilities and equipment costs, shipping costs, cost of duties and tariffs, write-downs for inventory obsolescence and provisions for warranty obligations. Inventories are written down and charged to cost of revenues when identified as excess or obsolete. Given the fixed nature of our facilities and equipment costs, we expect gross margin to increase as revenues and volumes increase; however, gross margins may fluctuate from period to period depending on product mix and the level of capacity utilization. Operating Expenses Research and Development Our research and development expense consists primarily of compensation, development expenses related to the design of our products and certain components, allocated facilities costs and the cost of materials and components to build prototype devices for testing. Costs related to product development are recorded as research and development expense in the period in which they are incurred. We expect that research and development expense will increase in absolute dollars as we invest in developing new products and technologies. However, we expect research and development expense to decrease modestly as a percentage of revenues over the longer term as revenues grow, although research and development expense may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales, General and Administrative 17 Our sales and marketing expense consists primarily of costs related to compensation, trade shows, travel, allocated facilities costs, amortization of assets used for demonstration purposes, commissions and other sales and marketing expenses, including charges and benefits related to the change in allowance for doubtful accounts. Our general and administrative expense consists primarily of compensation and associated costs for executive management, finance, legal and other administrative personnel, outside legal and professional fees, allocated facilities costs and other general corporate expenses. Also included in general and administrative expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 are costs associated with preparing for our initial public offering. We expect sales, general and administrative expense will continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow and incur the costs of compliance associated with being a publicly-traded company, including legal, audit, compliance and consulting fees. Although sales, general and administrative expense may fluctuate as a percentage of revenues from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses, over the long term, we expect sales, general and administrative expense to decrease modestly as a percentage of revenues as we scale with the growth of our business. Interest Income (Expense), Net Interest income (expense), net, primarily consists of interest income on our deposit accounts, net of interest expense on outstanding debt under our credit facilities and any other indebtedness we may incur. Other Expense Other expense primarily relates to realized and unrealized gains and losses related to our foreign currency transactions and balances and other non-operating gains and losses. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of foreign income taxes. Due to cumulative losses, we maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, in assessing the extent to which a valuation allowance should be applied against our deferred tax assets. While earnings through the third quarter of 2018 resulted in the utilization of a portion of our accumulated net operating loss carry-forwards, due to the uncertainly with respect to their ultimate realizability, we continue to maintain this position as of September 30, 2018 . Given our current earnings levels and anticipated future earnings, we believe that there is a reasonable possibility that we will continue to utilize these tax assets, and within the next 12 months, sufficient positive evidence may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that a significant portion of the valuation allowance will no longer be needed. A release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period the release is recorded. We record income tax expense for taxes in our foreign jurisdictions including China and Finland. We also record tax expense for uncertain tax positions taken and associated penalties and taxes. Results of Operations Three Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Revenues Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 51,025 $ 36,547 $ 14,478 39.6 % Revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $14.5 million , or 39.6% compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase is driven by growth in each of our three key end markets and across all regions. Revenues from the industrial end market increased $5.7 million , or approximately 37% from the same period in 2017 . The increase was driven by the higher sales of our fiber lasers, primarily in North America and Asia. Revenues from the microfabrication end market grew $3.5 million or 21% . The increase was driven by sales growth to customers for consumer electronics and semiconductor markets, primarily in North America and Asia. Revenues from the aerospace and defense end market 18 increased $5.3 million , or 107% compared to the same period in 2017 . This increase was driven by higher revenues on our existing government contracts, combined with higher semiconductor laser sales to new customers for defense applications. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 32,978 $ 24,202 $ 8,776 36.3 % Gross profit $ 18,047 $ 12,345 $ 5,702 46.2 % Gross margin as % of revenue 35.4 % 33.8 % 1.6 % Cost of revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $8.8 million , or 36.3% , on higher volumes compared to the same period in 2017 . Gross profit for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $5.7 million , or 46.2% , compared to the same periods in 2017 . Gross margin for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased from 33.8% to 35.4% . The improvement in gross margin was driven primarily by lower manufacturing overhead as a percentage of revenues due to higher production volumes. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 5,475 $ 3,849 $ 1,626 42.2 % Research and development expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $1.6 million , or 42.2% , compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase was primarily related to higher compensation costs, including $0.5 million of stock compensation, and higher materials expense, as we continued to invest in our product development initiatives. Sales, General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales, general, and administrative $ 7,485 $ 3,897 $ 3,588 92.1 % Sales, general and administrative expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.6 million , or 92.1% , compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by higher compensation costs due to increased headcount within our sales, general, and administrative functions including higher stock-based compensation of $1.1 million . Sales, general, and administrative expense also increased due to a $1.0 million recovery of a previously reserved receivable that occurred in the third quarter of 2017. 19 Interest Income (Expense), net Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income (expense), net $ 298 $ (76 ) $ 374 NM Interest income, net, for the three months ended September 30, 2018 increased $0.4 million compared to the net expense during the same period in 2017 . The increase was driven by $0.5 million of interest income generated on the cash we received in our initial and follow-on public offerings. Other Expense Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Other expense $ (537 ) $ (1,043 ) $ 506 (48.5 )% The decrease in other expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 was primarily attributable to a $0.9 million loss on debt extinguishment related to paying off our loan facility with Multiplier Growth Partners SPV I, LP in the third quarter of 2017. This was partially offset by higher net unrealized and realized foreign exchange losses compared to the same period in 2017, driven by foreign exchange rate fluctuations between the USD and the Chinese RMB. Other changes included an increase in subsidy income of $0.3 million. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 839 $ 1,236 $ (397 ) (32.1 )% Income tax expense for the three months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $0.4 million or 32.1% between the periods. Our tax expense is highly dependent upon the geographic mix of earnings, and is primarily related to operations in China and Finland. There is limited tax expense associated with our operations in the U.S. as we maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets. The decrease was driven by increased income from our U.S. operations relative to our foreign subsidiaries, which resulted in a lower effective tax rate during the three months ended September 30, 2018 . Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 Revenues Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 145,197 $ 101,098 $ 44,099 43.6 % Revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $44.1 million , or 43.6% compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase was driven by growth in each of our three key end markets and across all regions. 20 Revenues from the industrial end market increased $25.0 million , or approximately 62% from the same period in 2017 . The increase was driven by the higher sales of our fiber lasers across all regions, particularly in China. Revenues from the microfabrication end market grew $9.3 million , or 20% , compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase was driven by sales growth to customers for consumer electronics and semiconductor markets, primarily in North America. Revenues from the aerospace and defense end market increased $9.8 million , or 65% compared to the same period in 2017 . This increase was primarily driven by new defense contracts secured in the second half of 2017, as well as higher volumes on our existing government contracts. Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 94,742 $ 69,106 $ 25,636 37.1 % Gross profit $ 50,455 $ 31,992 $ 18,463 57.7 % Gross margin as % of revenue 34.7 % 31.6 % 3.1 % Cost of revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $25.6 million , or 37.1% , on higher volumes compared to the same period in 2017 . Gross profit increased $18.5 million , or 57.7% for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , compared to the same period in 2017 . This was driven by higher sales volumes combined with improvements in product costs. Gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased from 31.6% to 34.7% . The improvement in gross margin was driven by lower manufacturing overhead as a percentage of revenues due to higher production volumes, coupled with cost reductions realized in our laser production. Operating Expenses Research and Development Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 14,656 $ 11,585 $ 3,071 26.5 % Research and development expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $3.1 million , or 26.5% , compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase was primarily related to higher compensation costs, including $0.7 million in additional stock-based compensation as we continued to increase headcount to support our product development initiatives. Sales, General and Administrative Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales, general, and administrative $ 20,955 $ 13,300 $ 7,655 57.6 % Sales, general and administrative expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $7.7 million , or 57.6% , compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase was primarily driven by higher compensation costs on increased headcount within our sales, general, and administrative functions, including higher stock-based compensation of $1.7 million related to new grants issued in the second quarter of 2018. We also incurred higher professional services as a result of our initial public offering, which we completed in April 2018. The sales expense increased due to a $1.0 million recovery of a previously reserved receivable that occurred in the third quarter of 2017. Other increases were related to higher insurance and other expenses associated with being a public company. 21 Interest Income (Expense), net Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income (expense), net $ 73 $ (1,047 ) $ 1,120 NM Interest income, net, for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 increased $1.1 million , compared to the net expense during the same period in 2017 . The increase was primarily related to interest income of approximately $0.7 million generated on the cash received in connection with our initial and follow-on public offerings. Also contributing was the restructuring of our debt facilities, which included the extinguishment of our debt with Multiplier Growth Partners SPV I, LP in July 2017, as it carried a higher interest rate than our facility with Pacific Western Bank. Other Expense Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Other expense $ (503 ) $ (1,840 ) $ 1,337 (72.7 )% The decrease in other expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 is primarily attributable to a $0.9 million loss on debt extinguishment related to paying off our loan facility with Multiplier Growth Partners SPV I, LP in the prior year. Other changes included an increase in subsidy income of $0.6 million. Income Tax Expense Nine Months Ended September 30, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 2,836 $ 3,476 $ (640 ) (18.4 )% Income tax expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 decreased $640 thousand , or 18.4% compared to the same period in 2017 . The decrease was driven by the change in the jurisdictional mix of pre-tax earnings, which reflect increased income from our United States operations compared to relatively lower income from our foreign subsidiaries. There is limited tax expense associated with our operations in the U.S. as we maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2018 was 20% . NonGAAP Financial Information We monitor Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial metric, to help us evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful in evaluating our operating performance. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income adjusted for income tax expense, other nonoperating expense or income, net interest expense or income, depreciation and amortization, stockbased compensation and other special items as determined by management. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA is a meaningful measure of performance as it is commonly utilized by us and the investment community to analyze operating performance in our industry. The following table sets forth Adjusted EBITDA and a reconciliation from net income, the most comparable GAAP measure, for the periods presented. 22 Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 (in thousands) (in thousands) Net income $ 4,009 $ 2,244 $ 11,578 $ 744 Income tax expense 839 1,236 2,836 3,476 Other expense 537 1,043 503 1,840 Interest (income) expense, net (298 ) 76 (73 ) 1,047 Depreciation and amortization 2,194 1,890 6,312 5,799 Stock-based compensation 1,903 109 2,871 257 Adjusted EBITDA $ 9,184 $ 6,598 $ 24,027 $ 13,163 Adjusted EBITDA as a non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our business that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure included in the table above, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. This non-GAAP financial measure should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures. We believe that the nonGAAP measure disclosed herein is only useful as an additional tool to help management and investors make informed decisions about our financial and operating performance. By definition, nonGAAP measures do not give a full understanding of our performance. To be useful, they must be used in conjunction with the comparable GAAP measures. In addition, nonGAAP financial measures are not standardized. It may not be possible to compare our financial measures with other companies nonGAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. We strongly encourage investors to review our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. Liquidity and Capital Resources We had cash and cash equivalents of $168.2 million and $36.7 million as of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , respectively. On April 30, 2018 and September 11, 2018, upon the closing of our initial and follow-on public offerings, we received estimated net proceeds of $138 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated offering costs. Our principal uses of liquidity are to fund our working capital needs, purchase new capital equipment, and service our debt obligations. To date, our principal sources of liquidity have been the net proceeds we received through sales of equity securities, borrowings under our debt facilities and payments received from customers for our products. We believe our existing sources of liquidity will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional capital to expand the commercialization of our products, fund our operations and further our research and development activities. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from period to period and will depend on many factors, including the timing and extent of spending on research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the continuing market acceptance of our products and ongoing investments to support the growth of our business. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, technologies and intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may explore additional financing sources which could include equity, equitylinked and debt financing arrangements. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2018 2017 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,142 $ 193 Net cash used in investing activities (8,646 ) (3,017 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 138,003 24,574 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (4 ) 821 Net increase in cash $ 131,495 $ 22,571 23 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , net cash provided by operating activities was $2.1 million which was primarily driven by $11.6 million of net income reported in the current period, noncash adjustments of $9.2 million related to depreciation, stock-based compensation, and other items as well as a $0.8 million increase in accounts payable and other accrued expenses, largely driven by the timing of vendor payments. These positive adjustments were partially offset by an $8.4 million increase in accounts receivable and $7.1 million increase in inventory, in support of higher revenue levels, $3.1 million increase in other current assets driven by increases in duty rebate and value-added taxes receivables, prepaid insurance, other prepaid expenses, and a $1.4 million increase in other assets. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , net cash provided by operating activities was $0.2 million which was driven by a $0.7 million of net income reported in the period, non-cash adjustments of $7.1 million related to depreciation and amortization and other items and a $3.0 million increase in cash related to fluctuations in the balance of accounts payable and accrued liabilities. These positive adjustments were offset by a $4.0 million increase in accounts receivable, a $7.0 million increase in inventory, and a $0.4 million increase in other assets. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities was $8.6 million which was primarily due to capital expenditures during the period related to investments in manufacturing equipment and facilities, as well as investments in our patent portfolio. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , net cash used in investing activities was $3.0 million which was due to $3.0 million of capital expenditures and was primarily related to expanding manufacturing capacity. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2018 , net cash provided by financing activities was $138.0 million which was driven by $139.1 million in net proceeds related to our initial and follow-on public offerings less payment of offering expenses. These positive adjustments were offset by principal payments on our loan facility and capital leases of $1.2 million . During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , net cash provided by financing activities was $24.6 million which was due to $27.5 million of proceeds related to issuance of convertible preferred stock partially offset by $2.8 million in loan and capital lease payments and $0.4 million of payments to retire our loan facility with Multiplier Growth Partners SPV I, LP. Credit Facilities Pacific Western Bank Loan Facility In March 2014, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Pacific Western Bank (successor in interest to Square 1 Bank), as lender. The loan facility initially provided for up to $15.0 million in aggregate commitments, comprised of a $7.5 million term loan and a revolving loan facility subject to a borrowing base of eligible accounts receivable and inventory. In August 2014, the revolving loan facility was increased to $20.0 million , with adjustments to the borrowing base. We amended and restated the loan facility in March 2018.The amended and restated loan facility provided for $25.0 million in aggregate commitments, including a term loan of $15.0 million and a revolving loan facility equal to the lesser of (i) $25.0 million minus the unpaid principal amount of the term loan and the amount of any reserves for ancillary banking services, or (ii) a borrowing base equal to 85% of eligible accounts receivable plus the lesser of $5.5 million or 35% of eligible inventory. We amended and restated this loan facility in September 2018. The second amended and restated loan and security agreement provides a $40 million revolving credit facility to the Company. Our obligations under the loan facility are secured by substantially all of our assets. We initially borrowed $16.1 million under this line of credit to refinance the existing outstanding balance of the term and revolving loans under the prior agreement. As of September 30, 2018 , the outstanding balance under the amended and restated loan facility was $16.1 million . Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a per annum rate, depending on certain liquidity thresholds, ranging from adjusted LIBOR plus 1.35% to 2.25%, or prime rate minus 1.40% to 0.50%. Prior to the amendment and restatement of our loan facility in September 2018, the term and revolving loans bore interest at a rate equal to the banks prime rate plus 0.50% per annum, subject to a floor of 5.00% per annum. Interest is due and payable monthly in arrears. All outstanding principal and interest on the revolving loan is due and payable on September 24, 2021 . We may prepay loans under the loan facility in whole or in part at any time without premium or penalty. 24 The loan agreement contains customary representations and warranties, events of default and affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, covenants that limit or restrict the Companys ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, merge or consolidate, dispose of assets, make investments, make acquisitions, enter into certain transactions with affiliates, engage in any new line of business, pay dividends or make distributions, or repurchase common shares. We are also required to comply with a minimum cash threshold of $50.0 million . In the event cash is less than $50.0 million , we have to comply with a minimum capital expenditures covenant determined in relation to our adjusted EBITDA for the quarter. The facility also contains events of default that include, among others, nonpayment defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, crossdefaults to other indebtedness and material obligations, judgment defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and a change of control default. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the loan facility, an increase in the applicable interest rate under the loan facility to a per annum rate equal to 5.00% above the applicable interest rate and would permit our lender to exercise remedies with respect to all of the collateral that is securing the loan facility. As of September 30, 2018 and December 31, 2017 , we were in compliance with the covenants under our loan facilities. Multiplier Loan Facility In July 2015, we entered into a loan facility with Multiplier Growth Partners SPV I, LP, or Multiplier, as lender, and our subsidiary, Arbor Photonics, LLC, as co-borrower. The loan facility provided for a $15.0 million term loan available in two tranches and was subordinated to the loan facility with Pacific Western Bank. All of our obligations under the loan facility with Multiplier were secured by substantially all of our assets. We borrowed $12.5 million in aggregate principal amount under the loan facility. On July 17, 2017, we repaid the term loan in full and terminated the loan facility. The transaction qualified as a debt extinguishment and a loss of $0.9 million was recorded in other expense in the third quarter of 2017 as a result. The term loan bore interest at a rate equal to 11.00% per annum. Interest was due and payable monthly in arrears. The loan facility would have matured on July 16, 2020. In connection with our prepayment and termination of the loan facility, we were required to pay a prepayment premium equal to 3.00% of the principal amount prepaid. Contractual Obligations Our future significant contractual obligations as of March 31, 2018 were reported in the Prospectus. There have been no material changes from the contractual commitments previously disclosed in the Prospectus other than entering into a lease for additional space in Shanghai in the normal course of business, extending a lease for one of our Vancouver facilities in the normal course of business, entering into non-cancelable purchase orders with vendors in the normal course of business and amending and restating our loan facility with Pacific Western Bank. For more information please see the section titled "-Credit Facilities." Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Estimates Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and include our accounts and the accounts of our wholly owned subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these judgments and estimates under different assumptions or conditions and any such differences may be material. We believe that our significant accounting policies, which are discussed in the footnotes to our consolidated financial statements, and the accounting policies discussed below, involve a greater degree of complexity, involving management's judgments and estimates. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are critical to understanding our financial condition and historical and future results of operations: revenue recognition; product warranty; inventory; income taxes; and stock-based compensation. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as previously disclosed in the Prospectus. 25 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Since inception, we have not had any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or for another contractually narrow or limited purpose. Inflation We do not believe that inflation has had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.