Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with (1) the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2019 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on September 24, 2019. The last day of our fiscal year is July 31. Our fiscal quarters end on October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q. See also "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above. Overview Nutanix, Inc. ("we," "us," "our" or "Nutanix") provides a leading enterprise cloud platform that consists of software solutions that power many of the worlds business applications by digitizing the traditional silos of enterprise computing. We seek to provide an enterprise cloud platform that empowers our customers to unify various clouds - private, public, distributed - into one seamless cloud, allowing enterprises to choose the right cloud for each application. Our enterprise cloud platform natively converges compute, virtualization, storage, networking, desktop and security services into one integrated, simple to consume solution, which allows enterprises to simplify the complexities of a multi-cloud environment with automation, cost governance and compliance. Our enterprise cloud platform can be deployed on a variety of qualified hardware platforms or, in the case of our cloud-based software and software as a service ("SaaS") offerings, via hosted service or delivered pre-installed on an appliance that is configured to order. Non-portable software is delivered or sold alongside configured-to-order appliances with a license term equal to the life of the associated appliance. Our subscription term-based licenses are sold separately, or can be sold alongside configured-to-order appliances. Configured-to-order appliances, including our Nutanix-branded NX hardware line, can be purchased from one of our channel partners, original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") or directly from Nutanix. Our enterprise cloud platform is typically purchased with one or more years of support and entitlements, which includes the right to software upgrades and enhancements as well as technical support. Product revenue is generated primarily from the licensing of our solutions. Support, entitlements and other services revenue is primarily derived from the related support and maintenance contracts. Prior to fiscal 2019, we delivered most of our solutions on an appliance, thus our revenue included the revenue associated with the appliance and the included non-portable software, which lasts for the life of the associated appliance. However, starting in fiscal 2018, as a result of our business model transition toward software-only sales, more of our customers began buying appliances directly from our OEMs while separately buying licenses for our software solutions from us or one of our channel partners. In addition, starting in fiscal 2019, as a result of our transition towards a subscription-based business model, more of our customers began purchasing separately sold subscription term-based licenses that could be deployed on a variety of hardware platforms. As we continue our transition to a subscription-based business model, we expect a greater portion of our products to be delivered through subscription term-based licenses or cloud-based SaaS subscriptions. We had a broad and diverse base of approximately 16,580 end customers as of April 30, 2020, including approximately 905 Global 2000 enterprises. We define the number of end customers as the number of end customers for which we have received an order by the last day of the period, excluding partners to which we have sold products for their own demonstration purposes. A single organization or customer may represent multiple end customers for separate divisions, segments or subsidiaries. Since shipping our first product in fiscal 2012, our end customer base has grown rapidly. The number of end customers grew from approximately 13,190 as of April 30, 2019 to approximately 16,580 as of April 30, 2020. Our solutions are primarily sold through channel partners, including distributors, resellers and OEMs, and delivered directly to our end customers. Our solutions serve a broad range of workloads, including enterprise applications, databases, virtual desktop infrastructure, unified communications and big data analytics, and we support both virtualized and container-based applications. We have end customers across a broad range of industries, such as automotive, consumer goods, education, energy, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, media, public sector, retail, technology and telecommunications. We also sell to service providers, who utilize our enterprise cloud platform to provide a variety of cloud-based services to their customers. 34 Table of Contents We continue to invest in the growth of our business, including the development of our solutions, hiring for critical roles in our global teams, projects to increase the demand for our solutions and other sales and marketing initiatives. The number of our full-time employees increased from approximately 4,930 as of April 30, 2019 to approximately 6,230 as of April 30, 2020. We have an engineering team focused on distributed systems and IT infrastructure technologies at our San Jose, California headquarters and at our research and development centers in India, North Carolina, Washington, Serbia and Germany. We have in the past also expanded our international sales and marketing presence by continuing to build out our global teams and continuing to invest in sales and marketing initiatives, such as additional demand generation spending to increase pipeline growth. We plan to, in the long term, invest in our global engineering team to enhance the functionality of our enterprise cloud platform, including our newer subscription-based products, introduce new products and features to build upon our technology leadership, as well as expand our global sales and marketing teams in the long term. However, as discussed further in the "Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic" and "Factors Affecting Our Performance" sections below, in response to the ongoing and rapidly evolving global outbreak of a respiratory illness caused by a novel strain of the coronavirus that was identified in late 2019 and subsequently named in February 2020 by the World Health Organization as COVID-19 (collectively with any future mutations or related strains thereof, "COVID-19"), we have proactively taken steps to manage our expenses. As a result, our overall spending on such efforts will fluctuate, and may decline, from quarter to quarter in the near-term. Our total revenue was $936.3 million and $979.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 4.7%. Our software and support revenue, which we also refer to as total contract value ("TCV") revenue, was $843.9 million and $957.8 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 13.5%. Our subscription revenue was $452.8 million and $745.4 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively, an increase of 64.6%. Our net loss was $426.8 million and $687.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Net cash provided by operating activities was $51.8 million and net cash used in operating activities was $163.5 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively. Free cash flow, which is calculated as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, was a use of $43.0 million and use of $235.6 million for the nine months ended April 30, 2019 and 2020, respectively. As of April 30, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.3 billion. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing and rapidly evolving COVID-19 pandemic has significantly curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, imposed unprecedented strains on governments, health care systems, educational institutions, businesses and individuals around the world, including in nearly all of the regions in which we operate, and has resulted in significant volatility and uncertainty in the global economy. In response to the pandemic, authorities, businesses, and individuals have implemented numerous unprecedented measures, including travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place, stay-at-home, remote work and social distancing orders, and shutdowns, which have impacted and will continue to impact our workforce and operations, as well as those of our customers, vendors, suppliers, and partners. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have also been required or have deemed it necessary to take a number of actions to protect and assist our employees, customers, and partners, including: temporarily closing all of our offices (including our California headquarters) around the world through at least August 2020; requiring our employees to work remotely; implementing travel restrictions that prohibit all non-essential business travel; and postponing, cancelling, withdrawing from, or converting to virtual-only experiences (where possible and appropriate) our in-person customer, industry, analyst, investor, and employee events, including our 2020 .NEXT customer and partner events, our 2020 Investor Day, and our fiscal 2021 sales kick off; and offering extended payment terms of up to 60 days to certain partners through at least June 2020. As a result of such actions, as well as the general effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, our business and operations have experienced and may continue to experience numerous negative impacts, including: curtailed demand for certain of our solutions; reduced IT spending; delays in or abandonment of planned or future purchases; lengthened payment terms; lengthened sales cycles, particularly with new customers and partners who do not have prior experience with our solutions; supply chain disruptions; and voluntary and involuntary delays in the ability to ship, and the ability of our end customers to accept delivery of, the hardware platforms on which our software solutions run. We also expect the reduced manufacturing capacity caused by the pandemic to result in increases in the prices of certain components used to manufacture such hardware platforms, which may increase the price of those hardware platforms for our end customers. The travel bans, shutdowns, social distancing restrictions and remote work policies have also made it difficult or impossible to deliver on-site services to our partners and end customers, and to meet with our current and potential end customers in person. We have also seen positive impacts, including increased demand for our virtual desktop, desktop-as-a-service, and end-user computing solutions as a result of our end customers enabling their employees to work remotely. 35 Table of Contents We have also quickly adapted to the new work environment, leveraging digital, video, and other collaborative tools to enable our teams to stay connected with each other, and our sales, marketing and support teams to continue to engage with and remain responsive to our partners and end customers. Furthermore, we have taken, and expect to continue to take, a number of proactive actions to manage our operating expenses in light of the uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, including: effecting a global hiring pause outside of a small number of critical roles; implementing a 10% reduction in executive salaries, effective April 2020; pausing all merit salary increases and bonus payments; and implementing two, non-consecutive, mandatory one-week furloughs for our employees in the U.S., along with two, non-consecutive, voluntary one-week unpaid leave periods for our employees outside the U.S. Although the impact of these actions is uncertain, they have resulted in a reduction in our operating expenses, including sales and marketing expenses. See the section titled "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of this Form 10-Q for further discussion of the possible impact of these actions on our business and financial performance. The duration, scope and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business remain highly fluid and cannot be predicted with certainty, and the full effect of the pandemic and the actions we have taken in response may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and financial performance until future periods. Our management team is focused on guiding our company through the emerging challenges presented by COVID-19, and remains committed to driving positive business outcomes. Although we do not currently expect the pandemic to affect our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting or disclosure