Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Investment in Growth," we have proactively taken steps to reduce our expenses and increase our go-to-market productivity, as a result, our operating expenses may fluctuate from quarter to quarter in the near-term. In addition, as we continue to grow our business in the long-term, we must effectively train, integrate, develop, motivate and retain a large number of new employees, as well as existing employees who are promoted or moved into new roles, while maintaining the effectiveness of our business execution. The failure to manage these changes could significantly delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. In particular, our success depends heavily on our ability to ramp new sales teams in a fast and effective manner and retain those sales teams. We have also recently seen higher than normal attrition among our sales representatives and while we are actively recruiting additional sales representatives, it will take time to replace, train, and ramp them to full productivity, and if we are unable to do so, we may not be able to achieve our growth targets. We must also continue to improve and expand our IT and financial infrastructure, management systems and product management and sales processes. We expect that our future growth will continue to place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and we may not be able to sustain or manage any future growth effectively. We may incur costs associated with future growth prior to or without realizing the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, if any, or may develop more slowly than we expect. For example, as part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have shifted many of our demand generation activities to digital initiatives. If the returns on these initiatives are not as high as expected or take longer to realize than expected, the failure to generate the results we expect may negatively impact our revenue growth and profitability. If we are unable to sustain or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities. We also may fail to satisfy end customers requirements, maintain product quality, execute on our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. We believe our long-term value as a company will be greater if we focus on growth, which may negatively impact our profitability in the near term. Part of our business strategy is to primarily focus on our long-term growth. As a result, our profitability may be lower in the near term than it would be if our strategy was to maximize short-term profitability. Expenditures related to expanding our research and development efforts, sales and marketing efforts, our transition to a subscription-based business model, infrastructure and other such investments may not ultimately grow our business or cause long-term profitability. If we are ultimately unable to achieve profitability at the level anticipated by analysts and our stockholders, the price of our securities may decline, potentially significantly. 20 Table of Contents The enterprise IT market is rapidly changing and expanding, and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future from both established competitors and new market entrants. We operate in the intensely competitive enterprise infrastructure market and compete primarily with companies that sell software to build and operate enterprise clouds, integrated systems and standalone storage and servers, as well as providers of public cloud infrastructure solutions. These markets are characterized by constant change and rapid innovation. Our main competitors fall into the following categories: software providers, such as VMware, that offer a broad range of virtualization, infrastructure and management products to build and operate enterprise and hybrid clouds; traditional IT systems vendors, such as Cisco, Dell, HPE, Hitachi, IBM and Lenovo, that offer integrated systems that include bundles of servers, storage and networking solutions, as well as a broad range of standalone server and storage products; traditional storage array vendors, such as Dell, Hitachi and NetApp, which typically sell centralized storage products; and providers of public cloud infrastructure and SaaS-based offerings, such as Amazon, Google Inc. and Microsoft. In addition, we compete against vendors of hyperconverged infrastructure and software-defined storage products, such as Cisco, HPE, Dell, VMware and many smaller emerging companies. As our market grows, we expect it will continue to attract new companies as well as existing larger vendors. Some of our competitors may also expand their product offerings, acquire competing businesses, sell at lower prices, bundle with other products, provide closed technology platforms, partner with other companies to develop joint solutions, or otherwise attempt to gain a competitive advantage. Furthermore, as we expand our product offerings, we may expand into new markets and we may encounter additional competitors in such markets. Additionally, as companies increasingly offer competing solutions, they may be less willing to cooperate with us as an original equipment manufacturer ("OEM" and, collectively, "OEMs") or otherwise. 21 Table of Contents Many of our existing competitors have, and some of our potential competitors may have, competitive advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand awareness and name recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios and broader global presence and distribution networks. Moreover, our current or potential competitors may be acquired by third parties with greater available resources and the ability to initiate or withstand substantial price competition. Furthermore, some of our competitors have access to larger customer bases and supply a wide variety of products to, and have well-established relationships with, our current and prospective end customers. Some of these competitors have in the past and may in the future take advantage of their existing relationships with end customers, distributors or resellers to provide incentives to such current or prospective end customers that make their products more economically attractive or to interfere with our ability to offer our solutions to our end customers. Our competitors may also be able to offer products or functionality similar to ours at a more attractive price, such as by integrating or bundling their solutions with their other product offerings or those of technology partners or establishing cooperative relationships with other competitors, technology partners or other third parties. Potential end customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier, especially given the significant investments that they have historically made in their legacy infrastructures. Some of our competitors may also have stronger or broader relationships with technology partners than we do, which could make their products more attractive than ours. We are also venturing into a number of markets that are adjacent to our core HCI market, both through the expansion of HCI in hybrid multicloud as well as through our emerging products, and some of our competitors in these adjacent markets have more experience with those markets and more resources targeted at penetration those markets than we do. As a result, we cannot assure you that our solutions will compete favorably, and any failure to do so could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Developments or improvements in enterprise IT infrastructure technologies may materially and adversely affect the demand for our solutions. Significant developments in enterprise IT infrastructure technologies, such as advances in storage, virtualization, containers, networking, disaster recovery, edge computing, management software and public cloud and hybrid cloud infrastructure solutions, may materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects in ways we do not currently anticipate. Any failure by us to develop new or enhanced technologies or processes, to react to changes or advances in existing technologies or to correctly anticipate these changes or advances as we create and invest in our product roadmap, could materially delay our development and introduction of new solutions, which could result in the loss of competitiveness of our solutions, decreased revenue and a loss of market share to competitors. In addition, public cloud infrastructure offers alternatives to the on-premises infrastructure deployments that our platform currently primarily supports. Various factors could cause the rate of adoption of public cloud infrastructure to increase, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, continued or accelerated decreases in the price of public cloud offerings, increased interoperability with on-premises infrastructure solutions that compete with our solutions, and improvements in the ability of public cloud providers to deliver reliable performance, enhanced security, better application compatibility and more precise infrastructure control. Any of these factors could make our platform less competitive as compared to the public cloud, and could materially and adversely affect the demand for our solutions. 22 Table of Contents If other IT vendors do not cooperate with us to ensure that our solutions interoperate with their products, including by providing us with early access to their new products or information about their new products, our product development efforts may be delayed or impaired, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Our solutions provide a platform on which software applications and hypervisors from different software providers run. As a result, our solutions must interoperate with our end customers existing hardware and software infrastructure, specifically their networks, servers, software and operating systems, as well as the applications that they run on this infrastructure, which may be manufactured and provided by a wide variety of vendors and OEMs. In addition to ensuring that our solutions interoperate with these hardware and software products initially, we must occasionally update our software to ensure that our solutions continue to interoperate with new or updated versions of these hardware and software products. Current or future providers of hardware, software applications, hypervisors or data management tools could make changes that would diminish the ability of our solutions to interoperate with them, and significant additional time and effort may be necessary to ensure the continued compatibility of our solutions, which might not be possible at all. Even if our solutions are compatible with those of other providers, if they do not certify or support our solutions for their systems or cooperate with us to coordinate troubleshooting and hand off of support cases, end customers may be reluctant to buy our solutions, which could decrease demand for our solutions and harm our ability to achieve a return on the investments and resources that we have dedicated to ensuring compatibility. Developing solutions that interoperate properly requires substantial partnering, capital investment and employee resources, as well as the cooperation of the vendors or developers of the software applications and hypervisors both with respect to product development and product support. Vendors may not provide us with early or any access to their technology and products, assist us in these development efforts, certify our solutions, share with or sell to us any APIs, formats, or protocols we may need, or cooperate with us to support end customers. If they do not provide us with the necessary access, assistance or proprietary technology on a timely basis or at all, we may experience product development delays or be unable to ensure the compatibility of our solutions with such new technology or products. To the extent that vendors develop products that compete with ours, they have in the past, and may again in the future, withhold their cooperation, decline to share access, certify our solutions or sell or make available to us their proprietary APIs, protocols or formats or engage in practices to actively limit the functionality, or compatibility, and certification of our products. If any of the foregoing occurs, our product development efforts may be delayed or impaired, our solutions could become less attractive to end customers resulting in a decline in sales, and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. If we fail to successfully execute on our plan to sell more cloud services, which would be sold on a ratable subscription-basis, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We have sold and anticipate selling more of our products and services as cloud-based offerings - which include offerings hosted on public cloud infrastructure as well as part of our own Nutanix Cloud Platform - on a ratable subscription basis. While cloud-based offerings currently make up a small portion of our business, this shift has required and will continue to require a considerable investment of resources and will continue to divert resources and increase costs, especially in cost of license and other revenues, in any given period. We have also made, and intend to continue to make, investments in the supporting infrastructure for such cloud-based offerings that we host, and may not recoup the costs of such investments. Such investments of resources may also not improve our long-term growth and results of operations. Further, the increase in some costs associated with our cloud-based services may be difficult to predict over time, especially in light of our lack of historical experience with the costs of delivering cloud-based versions of our solutions. 23 Table of Contents We believe our plan has certain advantages; however, it also presents a number of risks to us including, but not limited to, the following: arrangements entered into on a ratable subscription basis may delay when we can recognize revenue, even when compared to similar term-based subscription sales, which we currently recognize upfront, and can require up-front costs, which may be significant; since revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the customer agreement, any decrease in customer purchases of our ratable subscription-based products and services will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. This will also make it difficult for us to increase our revenue through additional ratable subscription sales in any given period; cloud-based ratable subscription arrangements are generally under short-term agreements. Accordingly, our customers generally have no long-term obligation to us and may cancel their subscription at any time, even if our customers are satisfied with our cloud-based subscription products; and there is no assurance that the cloud-based solutions we offer on a ratable subscription basis, including new products that we may introduce, will receive broad marketplace acceptance. If we fail to properly execute on our plan to sell more of our products and services as cloud-based offerings on a ratable subscription basis, our business and operating results would be adversely affected, and the price of our securities could decline. If we fail to develop or introduce new or enhanced solutions on a timely or cost-effective basis, our ability to attract and retain end customers could be impaired and our brand, reputation and competitive position could be harmed. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards and technological obsolescence. We will need to continue to create valuable software solutions and integrate these solutions across hardware platforms. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell new or enhanced solutions that provide increasingly higher levels of performance, capacity, scalability, security, interoperability, application mobility and reliability and meet the cost expectations of our end customers. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future solutions obsolete or less attractive to end customers. Any failure to anticipate or develop new or enhanced solutions or technologies in a timely or cost-effective manner in response to technological shifts, could result in decreased revenue and harm to our business and prospects. Any new feature or application that we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve broad market acceptance and investments in research and development or efforts to optimize our engineering cost structure may not be successful. In particular, if we fail to timely release new products, technology or services that we previously announced, our brand and reputation could be harmed. In addition, we have recently announced plans to shift from offerings based on individual products to offerings based on solutions. If we fail to introduce new or enhanced solutions that meet the needs of our end customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, we will lose market share and our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents If we are not successful in executing our strategy to increase sales of our solutions to new and existing large organizations, service providers and government entities, our operating results may suffer. Our growth strategy is dependent in large part upon increasing sales of our solutions to new and existing large enterprises, service providers and government entities, particularly when such sales result in large orders for our solutions. Sales to these end customers involve risks that may not be present, or that are present to a lesser extent, with sales to smaller end customers, which can act as a disincentive to our sales team to pursue these larger end customers. These risks include: competition from companies that traditionally target larger enterprises, service providers and government entities and that may have pre-existing relationships or purchase commitments from such end customers; increased purchasing power and leverage held by large end customers in negotiating contractual arrangements with us; more stringent requirements in our support service contracts, including demand for quicker support response times and penalties for any failure to meet support requirements; and longer sales cycles and the associated risk that substantial time and resources may be spent on a potential end customer that elects not to purchase our solutions. Large organizations often undertake a significant evaluation process that results in a lengthy sales cycle. Although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our prospective end customers as well as our distributors and resellers. We typically provide evaluation products to these end customers and may spend substantial time, effort and money in our sales efforts to these prospective end customers. In addition, product purchases by large organizations are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unanticipated administrative, processing and other delays. Finally, large organizations typically have longer implementation cycles, require greater product functionality and scalability, require a broader range of services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, require acceptance provisions that can lead to a delay in revenue recognition and expect greater payment flexibility. Given these variables, it can be difficult for us to estimate when an expected sale from a large organization, service provider or government entity may occur, and our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results may be adversely affected. If we fail to realize an expected sale from a large end customer in a particular quarter or at all, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. All of these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these end customers. 25 Table of Contents Our growth depends on our existing end customers making additional purchases of software licenses and software upgrades and renewing and upgrading their subscriptions and support and entitlement agreements, and the failure of our end customers to do so could harm our business and operating results. Our future success depends in part on purchases by our existing end customers of additional software licenses and appliances as well as renewals and upgrades to their subscription and support and entitlement agreements. If our end customers do not purchase additional software licenses or appliances or software upgrades, or renew or upgrade their subscription and support and entitlement agreements, our revenue may decline and our operating results may be harmed. In order for us to maintain or improve our operating results, we depend on our existing end customers renewing their subscription agreements as well as their support and entitlement agreements, or purchasing additional solutions. End customers may choose not to renew their subscription agreements or support and entitlement agreements, or purchase additional solutions, because of several factors, including dissatisfaction with our prices or features relative to competitive offerings, reductions in our end customers spending levels or other causes outside of our control. If our existing end customers do not purchase new solutions, or renew or upgrade their subscription agreements or support and entitlement agreements, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or may decline, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We rely on our key personnel, and our Chief Executive Officer in particular, to grow our business, and the loss of one or more such key employees or the inability to attract, hire, integrate, train, retain, and motivate qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our executive officers and key personnel. If we lose the services of any member of management or any key personnel, we may not be able to locate a suitable or qualified replacement, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit and train a replacement, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. For example, in December 2020, we appointed Rajiv Ramaswami as our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Ramaswami could disrupt our business and negatively impact our operating results, prospects and future growth and cause a significant decline in the price of our securities. In addition, we do not have life insurance policies that cover any of our executive officers or other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees, and any failure to have in place and execute an effective succession plan for key executives, could disrupt our business and have a significant negative impact our operating results, prospects and future growth. In addition, our future success also depends substantially on our ability to continue to attract, hire, integrate, train, retain, and adequately incentivize qualified and highly skilled personnel, in particular, in engineering and sales. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. Moreover, ineffective management of any leadership transitions, especially within our sales organization, or the inability of our recently hired sales personnel to effectively ramp to target productivity levels could negatively impact our growth and operating margins. Competition for highly skilled personnel, particularly in engineering, is frequently intense, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area, where we are headquartered and have a substantial need for such personnel. Furthermore, the industry in which we operate generally experiences high employee attrition, and we expect such trends to worsen as the COVID-19 pandemic continues. Although we have entered into employment offer letters with our key personnel, these agreements have no specific duration and constitute at-will employment. Volatility or lack of performance in the price of our securities may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Additionally, potential changes in U.S. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations, including in reaction to COVID-19, may make it difficult to renew or obtain visas for any highly skilled personnel that we have hired or are actively recruiting. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents If we do not effectively expand, train, motivate and retain our sales force, we may be unable to add new end customers or increase sales to our existing end customers and our business will be adversely affected. Although we have a channel sales model, our sales representatives typically engage in direct interaction with our prospective end customers. Therefore, we continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to obtain new end customers and sell additional solutions to our existing end customers. There is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity; we estimate based on past experience that our average sales team members typically do not fully ramp and are not fully productive until around the time of the start of their fourth quarter of employment with us. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals, particularly individuals who are focused on sales of our solutions to new and existing large enterprises, service providers and government entities, in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. Hiring sales personnel in new countries also requires additional set up, upfront and ongoing costs that we may not recover if the sales personnel fail to achieve full productivity. In addition, as a result of our rapid growth, a large percentage of our sales force is new to our company and our solutions and therefore less effective than our more seasoned employees. Moreover, as we complete our transition to focus on software-only transactions and continue our transition to a subscription-based business model, we are also re-training our seasoned sales employees, who have historically focused on appliance sales and selling software licenses for the life of the device, in order to maintain or increase their productivity. We have adjusted and also anticipate needing to further adjust our go-to-market cost structure, particularly as it relates to how we compensate our sales teams for life-of-device and renewal transactions. If our new sales employees, particularly those focused on sales of our solutions to new and existing large enterprises, service providers and government entities, do not become fully productive on the timelines that we have projected, or if we are unable to successfully re-train our more seasoned sales employees as we focus on software-only and subscription-based sales or adjust our go-to-market cost structure, our revenue will not increase at anticipated levels and our ability to achieve long-term projections may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to hire, train and maintain sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or our new or existing sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new end customers, convincing existing customers to renew their subscription-based purchases, or increasing sales to our existing customer base generally, our business, operating results and prospects will be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents If we do not effectively compose, structure and compensate our sales force to focus on the end customers and activities that will primarily drive our growth strategy, our business will be adversely affected. As indicated above, our growth is dependent in large part on the success of our sales force and in particular our ability to structure our sales force and sales compensation structure in a way that aligns with our growth strategy. As part of our efforts to appropriately structure and compensate our sales force such that their incentives are properly aligned with our growth strategy, we have made changes to our sales processes, sales segmentation, and leadership structures for our global sales teams and may need to make additional changes in the future. Such changes may take longer than anticipated to successfully implement, and we may not be able to realize the full benefits thereof, which may have a material adverse impact on our sales productivity as well as our business and operational results generally. In particular, as indicated above, our growth continues to be substantially dependent on our ability to increase our sales to large enterprises, particularly when those sales result in large orders for our solutions. Competition for sales employees who have the knowledge and experience necessary to effectively penetrate major enterprise accounts is fierce, and we may not be successful in hiring such employees, or hiring them on the timelines we anticipate, which will negatively impact our ability to target and penetrate major enterprise accounts. In addition, we anticipate that the sales cycles associated with major accounts will be longer than our traditional sales cycles, which will increase the time it will take our new global account managers to become fully productive. In addition, as our organization continues to focus on major accounts and large deals, the productivity of our traditional sales teams may be impacted. Additionally, as we continue with our transition to a subscription-based business model, we have adjusted and may need to further adjust the compensation structure of our sales force, particularly as it relates to how we compensate our sales teams for life-of-device and renewal transactions. In particular, to align with the new subscription-based business model, starting in fiscal 2021 we have adjusted our sales compensation structure, which was previously based on total contract value, to one that is based primarily on ACV, which has caused our average contract term lengths to decline and could negatively impact our operating and free cash flows, potentially significantly. These business model transitions and compensation structure changes may lead to fluctuations in sales productivity that will make it more difficult to accurately project our operating results or plan for future growth. If we are unable to effectively manage these changes or implement new sales structures in a timely manner, or if our decision to segment our sales force is not successful in obtaining large sales of our solutions, our growth and ability to achieve long-term projections may be negatively impacted, and our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We rely primarily on indirect sales channels for the distribution of our solutions, and disruption within these channels could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows. We primarily sell our solutions through indirect sales channels, including channel partners, such as distributors, our OEMs, value added resellers and system integrators. Our OEMs may in turn distribute our solutions through their own networks of channel partners with whom we have no direct relationships. 28 Table of Contents We rely, to a significant degree, on our channel partners to select, screen and maintain relationships with their distribution networks and to distribute our solutions in a manner that is consistent with applicable law, regulatory requirements and our quality standards. If our channel partners or a partner in their distribution network violates applicable law or regulatory requirements or misrepresents the functionality of our solutions, our reputation and brand could be damaged and we could be subject to potential liability. Additionally, if we are unable to establish relationships with strong channel partners in key growth regions, our ability to sell our solutions in these regions may be adversely affected. Our agreements with our channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer end customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our solutions, choose to use greater efforts to market and sell their own products or those of our competitors, or fail to meet the needs of our end customers, our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. Our channel partners may cease marketing our solutions with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. The loss of a substantial number of our channel partners, together with our inability to replace them, or the failure to recruit additional channel partners or establish an alternative distribution network could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, sales through Arrow Electronics, Inc. and Tech Data Corporation to our end customers represented 32% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenue for fiscal 2021. In addition, if a channel partner offers its own products or services that are competitive to our solutions, is acquired by a competitor or reorganizes or divests its reseller business units, our revenue derived from that partner may be adversely impacted or eliminated altogether. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in the use of our technologies requires significant time and resources. If we fail to devote sufficient resources to support and expand our network of channel partners, our business may be adversely affected. Maintaining strong indirect sales channels for our products and effectively leveraging our channel partners and OEMs is important to our growth strategy, and the failure to effectively manage these relationships may lead to higher costs and reduced revenue. Also, in certain international markets, we are in the process of transitioning our distribution model from contracting directly with hundreds of individual resellers to contracting with a smaller number of larger global distributors. Although we believe that this transition will make our sales channels more efficient and broader reaching in the long term in these markets, there is no guarantee that this new distribution model will increase our sales in the short term or allow us to sustain our gross margins. Any potential delays or confusion during the transition process to our new partners may negatively affect our relationship with our existing end customers and channel partners and may cause us to lose prospective end customers or additional business from existing end customers or cause a decline in renewal rates with existing end customers. Upon completion of the transition to the new sales model, we will be more reliant on fewer channel partners, which may reduce our contact with our end customers making it more difficult for us to establish brand awareness, ensure proper delivery and installation of our software, support ongoing end customer requirements, estimate end customer demand, respond to evolving end customer needs and obtain subscription renewals from end customers. 29 Table of Contents All of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. Government entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our channel partners for convenience or due to a default, and, in the future, if the portion of government contracts that are subject to renegotiation or termination at the election of the government are material, any such termination or renegotiation may adversely impact our future operating results. Additionally, we sometimes rely on our channel partners to satisfy certain regulatory obligations that we would otherwise have to satisfy if we sold directly to the government entities, and our channel partners may be unable or unwilling to satisfy these obligations in the future. In the event of such termination or change, it may be difficult for us to arrange for another channel partner to sell our solutions to these government entities in a timely manner, and we could lose sales opportunities during the transition. Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors (including subcontractors') administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our solutions, our channel partners changing their business models or refusing to continue to sell our solutions under current models, a reduction of revenue or fines, or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities. If our indirect distribution channel is disrupted, particularly if we are reliant on a fewer number of channel partners, or if we are required to directly satisfy certain regulatory obligations imposed by government entities as a result of our efforts to expand our sales to government entities, we may be required to devote more time and resources to distribute our solutions directly and support our end customers, which may not be as effective and could lead to higher costs, reduced revenue and growth that is slower than expected. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly, which could make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. If our revenue or operating results in any particular period fall below investor expectations, the price of our securities would likely decline. Factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include, but are not limited to: the timing and magnitude of orders, shipments and acceptance of our solutions in any quarter; our ability to attract new and retain existing end customers; disruptions in our sales channels or shifts in our relationships with important channel partners and OEMs; the timing of revenue recognition for our sales, the impact of which is heightened by our focus on software-only sales and ongoing transition to a subscription-based model; reductions in end customers budgets for information technology purchases; delays in end customers purchasing cycles or deferments of end customers purchases in anticipation of new products or updates from us or our competitors; fluctuations in demand and competitive pricing pressures for our solutions; the lengths of our contract terms; the mix of solutions sold, including the mix between appliance and software-only sales and the mix between subscription-based and non-subscription-based transactions, and the mix of revenue between products and support, entitlements and other services, which will depend in part on whether we are successful in executing our strategy to transition our business to a subscription-based model; 30 Table of Contents our ability to develop, introduce and ship in a timely manner new solutions and product enhancements that meet customer requirements, and market acceptance of such new solutions and product enhancements; the timing of product releases or upgrades or announcements by us or our competitors; any change in the competitive dynamics of our markets, including consolidation or partnerships among our competitors or partners, new entrants or discounting of prices; the amount and timing of expenses to grow our business and the extent to which we are able to take advantage of economies of scale or to leverage our relationships with OEM or channel partners; the costs associated with acquiring new businesses and technologies and the follow-on costs of integrating and consolidating the results of acquired businesses; the amount and timing of stock-based compensation expenses; our ability to control the costs of our solutions and their key components, or to pass along any cost increases to our end customers; general economic, industry and market conditions and other events that may be outside of our control, such as political and social unrest, terrorist attacks, hostilities, malicious human acts, climate change, natural disasters (including extreme weather), pandemics or other major public health concerns, and other similar events; and future accounting pronouncements and changes in accounting policies. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our operating results in any particular quarter, which could cause the price of our securities to decline. Our gross margins are impacted by a variety of factors and may be subject to variation from period to period. Our gross margins may be affected by a variety of factors, including fluctuations in the pricing of our products, including as a result of competitive pricing pressures or increases in component pricing, and the degree to which we are successful in selling the value of incremental feature improvements and upgrades, changes in the cost of components of our hardware appliances, changes in the mix between direct versus indirect sales, changes in the mix of products sold and the timing and amount of recognized and deferred revenue, particularly as a result of our continued transition to a subscription-based business model. If we are unable to manage these factors effectively, our gross margins may decline, and fluctuations in gross margin may make it difficult to manage our business and to achieve or maintain profitability, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 31 Table of Contents Our sales cycles can be long and unpredictable and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. As a result, it can be difficult for us to predict when, if ever, a particular customer will choose to purchase our solutions, which may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly. Our sales efforts involve educating our end customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions, including their technical capabilities and cost saving potential. End customers often undertake an evaluation and testing process that can result in a lengthy sales cycle. Increasing competition and the emergence of new hyperconverged infrastructure product offerings and consumption models often result in customers evaluating multiple vendors at the same time, which can further lengthen the sales cycle. We spend substantial time and resources on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any sales. Platform purchases are frequently subject to budget constraints, multiple approvals and unanticipated administrative, processing and other delays. The broad nature of the technology shift that our solutions represent and the legacy relationships our end customers have with existing IT vendors sometimes lead to unpredictable sales cycles, which make it difficult for us to predict when end customers may purchase solutions from us. The unpredictable nature of our sales cycles may be increased in future periods as we continue to focus our sales efforts more heavily on major accounts and large deals, and as we educate our customers about our ongoing transition to a subscription-based business model. Our business and operating results will be significantly affected by the degree to which and speed with which organizations adopt our solutions. Because we depend on manufacturers of hardware, including our OEM partners, to timely and cost-effectively produce and ship the hardware on which our software runs, we are susceptible to delays, supply chain restrictions and pricing fluctuations, which could cause our business to be adversely affected. We rely on manufacturers, including our OEM partners, to produce the hardware appliances on which our software runs, including both our Nutanix-branded NX series appliances and the various third-party appliances that are included on our hardware compatibility list, which exposes us to direct and indirect risks beyond our control, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and timing, supply chain disruptions and delays, and potential reputational harm and brand damage. We may not be able to discover, manage, and/or remediate such risks successfully and in a timely manner. For example, key components of the servers on which our software runs have been affected by the ongoing chip shortage, and customers may delay their purchase of our software if they expect that the delivery of the servers on which they intend to operate the software will be delayed for many months. Furthermore, our orders for NX series appliances represent a relatively small percentage of the overall orders received by such hardware manufacturers from their customers. Therefore, fulfilling our orders may not be a priority in guiding their business decisions and operational commitments. If we fail to manage our relationships with these manufacturers effectively, or if any of them experience delays, disruptions or increased manufacturing lead times, component lead-time disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in their operations or are unable to meet our or our end customers requirements for timely delivery, our ability to sell our solutions to our end customers could be severely impaired due to the lack of availability of certified hardware appliances, and our customers' ability, or willingness, to consume our software will be materially delayed, which will adversely affect our business and operating results, competitive position, brand and reputation, as well as our relationships with affected customers. 32 Table of Contents In particular, we rely substantially on Supermicro to manufacture, as well as assemble and test, the Nutanix-branded NX series appliances, including those that are delivered by us. Our agreement with Supermicro was renewed in May 2021 for one year and will automatically renew for successive one-year periods following the expiration of such renewal term, with the option to terminate upon each annual renewal, and does not contain any minimum long-term commitment to manufacture NX-branded appliances. If we are required to change the manufacturer or contract manufacturers for the assembly and testing of our NX-branded appliances, we may lose revenue, incur increased costs and damage our channel partner and end customer relationships. We may also decide to switch or bring on additional contract manufacturers for the assembly and testing of our NX-branded appliances in order to better meet our needs. Switching to or bringing on a new OEM partner or contract manufacturer and commencing production is expensive and time-consuming and may cause delays in order fulfillment at our existing OEM partners and contract manufacturers or cause other disruptions. Our agreement with Supermicro does not contain any price assurances, and increases in component costs, without a corresponding increase in the price of our NX series solutions, could reduce the amount that an end customer pays for our software, thereby adversely affecting our billings and revenue. Furthermore, we may need to increase our component purchases, manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality functions if we experience increased demand. The inability of Supermicro or other manufacturers to produce adequate supplies of hardware appliances could cause a delay in customers ability to consume our software and our order fulfillment, and our business, operating results and prospects would be adversely affected. As of July 31, 2021, we had approximately $48.0 million in the form of guarantees to our OEM partners related to certain components. There are a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases single-source suppliers, for several key components in our NX-branded appliances as well as other hardware appliances that our software is certified to operate on, and any delay or disruption in the availability or quality of these components could delay shipments of the NX-branded appliances and damage our channel partner or end customer relationships, or cause our customers to delay purchasing our software. We rely on a limited number of suppliers, and in some cases single-source suppliers, for several key hardware components of the Nutanix-branded NX series appliances. These components are generally purchased on a purchase order basis through Supermicro or Flextronics and we do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Our reliance on key suppliers exposes us to risks, including reduced control over product quality, production and component costs, timely delivery and capacity. It also exposes us to the potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components because we do not have long-term supply commitments, and replacing some of these components would require a lengthy product qualification process. Furthermore, we extensively test and qualify the components that are used in NX-branded appliances and other appliances on our hardware compatibility list, including hardware appliances from our OEM partners, to ensure that they meet certain quality and performance specifications. If our supply of certain components is disrupted or delayed, or if we need to replace existing suppliers on the qualified hardware configuration, there can be no assurance that additional supplies or components can serve as adequate replacements for the existing components, will be available when required or that supplies will be available on terms that are favorable to us, and we may be required to modify our solutions to interoperate with the replacement components. Any of these developments could extend our lead times, increase the costs of our components or costs of product development, cause us to miss market windows for product launch and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 33 Table of Contents We generally maintain minimal inventory for repairs and a number of evaluation and demonstration units, and generally acquire components only as needed. We do not enter into long-term supply contracts for these components. As a result, our ability to respond to channel partner or end customer orders efficiently may be constrained by the then-current availability, terms and pricing of these components. The technology industry has experienced component shortages and delivery delays in the past, and is currently experiencing a global chip shortage, and we may experience shortages or delays of critical components in the future as a result of strong demand in the industry, component availability constraints, or other factors. If we or our suppliers inaccurately forecast demand for our solutions or we ineffectively manage our enterprise resource planning processes, our suppliers may have inadequate inventory, which could increase the prices we must pay for substitute components or result in our inability to meet demand for our solutions, as well as damage our channel partner or end customer relationships. If the suppliers of the components of compatible hardware appliances increase prices of components, experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, quality control problems in their manufacturing operations or adverse changes to their financial condition, our ability to ship appliances to our channel partners or end customers in a timely manner and at competitive prices could be impaired, and our customers' ability to acquire hardware on which to run our software could be impaired, and our competitive position, brand, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. Qualifying a new component is expensive and time-consuming. If we are required to change key suppliers or assume internal manufacturing operations, we may lose revenue and damage our channel partner or end customer relationships which could adversely impact our revenue and operating results. We enter into arrangements with certain of our OEM partners that could require us to purchase certain minimum levels of inventory or meet certain performance commitments, which could result in us incurring losses that may negatively impact our business and operating results . From time to time, in the normal course of business, we enter into arrangements with certain of our OEM partners whereby we make commitments to ensure them a minimum level of financial consideration for their investment in our joint solutions. These commitments are based on performance targets or on-hand inventory and non-cancelable purchase orders for non-standard components. For arrangements related to inventory, we commit to the purchase of certain quantities of components from our OEMs. If we are unable to use the inventory within a specified period, we may be required to purchase it, or to pay the OEM partner the difference between the price at which the OEM partner purchased the inventory and the price at which the OEM partner is ultimately able to sell the inventory to a third party. As a result, if we inaccurately or mistakenly forecast our need for any such components, or if the market price of any such components decreases after the components are purchased by an OEM partner, we may suffer losses with respect to such inventory, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. For arrangements related to performance targets, we commit to our OEM partner that we will help them reach certain performance targets. If we fail to meet such targets, we are obligated to reimburse our OEM partner for their investment in our joint solution. 34 Table of Contents We rely upon third parties for the warehousing and delivery of appliances and replacement parts for support, and we therefore have less control over these functions than we otherwise would. We outsource the warehousing and delivery of appliances to a third-party logistics provider for worldwide fulfillment. In addition, some of our support offerings commit us to replace defective parts in our appliances as quickly as four hours after the initial customer support call is received, which we satisfy by storing replacement parts inventory in various third-party supply depots in strategic worldwide locations. As a result of relying on third parties, we have reduced control over shipping and logistics transactions and costs, quality control, security and the supply of replacement parts for support. Consequently, we may be subject to shipping disruptions and unanticipated costs as well as failures to provide adequate support for reasons that are outside of our direct control. If we are unable to have appliances or replacement products shipped in a timely manner, end customers may cancel their contracts with us, we may suffer reputational harm and our business, operating results and prospects may be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our solutions is dependent in part on ease of use and the quality of our technical support, and any failure to offer high-quality technical support would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Once our solutions are deployed, our end customers depend on our support organization to resolve any technical issues relating to our solutions. Furthermore, because of the emerging nature of our solutions, our support organization often provides support for and troubleshoots issues for products of other vendors running on our solutions, even if the issue is unrelated to our solutions. There is no assurance that we can solve issues unrelated to our solutions, or that vendors whose products run on our solutions will not challenge our provision of technical assistance to their products. Our ability to provide effective support is largely dependent on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel who are not only qualified to support our solutions, but also well versed in some of the primary applications and hypervisors that our end customers run on our solutions. Furthermore, as we expand our operations internationally, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. In addition, as we continue to expand our product portfolio to include additional solutions our ability to provide high-quality support will become more difficult and will involve more complexity. Any failure to maintain high-quality installation and technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation and brand, adversely affect our ability to sell our solutions to existing and prospective end customers, and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 35 Table of Contents Our solutions are highly technical and may contain undetected defects, which could cause data unavailability, unauthorized access to, loss, or corruption that might, in turn, result in liability to our end customers and harm to our reputation, brand and business. Our solutions are highly technical and complex and are often used to store information critical to our end customers business operations. Our solutions may contain undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities that could result in data unavailability, unauthorized access to, loss, corruption or other harm to our end customers data, including personal or identifying information regarding their employees, customers, and suppliers, as well as their finance and payroll data, and other sensitive business information. In addition, as we expand our platform and introduce new cloud-based products that may hold more of our customer's data, any undetected or unresolved errors, defects or security vulnerabilities may result in data unavailability, unauthorized access to, loss, corruption or other harm to our end-customers' data. Some errors or defects in our solutions may only be discovered after they have been installed and used by end customers. We previously conducted an in-field replacement of equipment manufactured by our previous outsourced manufacturer, and may be required to do so again in the future. In addition, we may make certain commitments to our OEMs regarding the time frames within which we will correct any security vulnerabilities in our software. If any hardware or software errors, defects or security vulnerabilities are discovered in our solutions after commercial release, a number of negative effects in our business could result, including but not limited to: lost revenue or lost OEM or other channel partners or end customers; increased costs, including warranty expense and costs associated with end customer support as well as development costs to remedy the errors or defects; delays, cancellations, reductions or rescheduling of orders or shipments; product returns or discounts; and damage to our reputation and brand. In addition, we could face legal claims for breach of contract, product liability, tort or breach of warranty. While many of our contracts with end customers contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, these provisions might not be upheld or might not provide adequate protection if we face such legal claims. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and may divert managements attention and adversely affect the markets perception of us and our solutions. In addition, our business liability insurance coverage could prove inadequate with respect to a claim and future coverage may be unavailable on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. These product-related issues could result in claims against us and our business could be adversely impacted. 36 Table of Contents Our business depends, in part, on sales to government organizations, and significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of such government organizations could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. We derive a portion of our revenue from contracts with federal, state, local and foreign governments, and we believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. However, demand is often unpredictable from government organizations, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or grow our revenue from the public sector. Government agencies are subject to budgetary processes and expenditure constraints that could lead to delays or decreased capital expenditures in IT spending, particularly in light of continued uncertainties about government spending levels, such as recent changes to, or failure to appoint new, government leaders. The budget and approval process for government agencies also experiences a longer sales cycle relative to our other end customers, and it may be difficult for us to accurately forecast the impact of these contracts on our future operating results. If government organizations reduce or shift their capital spending patterns, our business, operating results and prospects may be harmed. Factors that could impede our ability to maintain or increase the amount of revenue derived from government contracts, include, but are not limited to: public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations; changes in fiscal or contracting policies; decreases in available government funding; changes in government programs or applicable requirements; the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; potential delays or changes in the government appropriations or other funding authorization processes; and higher expenses associated with, or delays caused by, diligence and qualifying or maintaining qualification as a government vendor. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing our solutions in the future or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and prospects. 37 Table of Contents Third-party claims that we are infringing intellectual property, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses, and our business could be harmed. A number of companies, both within and outside of the enterprise and cloud computing infrastructure industry, hold a large number of patents covering aspects of storage, servers, networking, desktop, security and virtualization products. In addition to these patents, participants in this industry typically also protect their technology through copyrights and trade secrets. As a result, there is frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and in the future may receive, inquiries from other intellectual property holders and may become subject to claims that we infringed or are infringing their intellectual property rights, particularly as we expand our presence in the market and face increasing competition. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in defending against these allegations or reaching a business resolution that is satisfactory to us. In addition, parties may claim that the names and branding of our solutions infringe their trademark rights in certain countries or territories. If such a claim were to prevail, we may have to change the names and branding of our solutions in the affected territories and we could incur other costs. We currently have a number of agreements in effect pursuant to which we have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold harmless our end customers, suppliers and channel and other partners from damages and costs which may arise from the infringement by our solutions of third-party patents or other intellectual property rights. The scope of these indemnity obligations varies, but may, in some instances, include indemnification for damages and expenses, including attorneys fees. A claim that our solutions infringe a third partys intellectual property rights, even if untrue, could harm our relationships with our end customers and/or channel partners, may deter future end customers from purchasing our solutions and could expose us to costly litigation and settlement expenses. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party relating to infringement by our solutions, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our solutions against intellectual property infringement claims in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any of these results could harm our brand and operating results. Our defense of intellectual property rights claims brought against us or our end customers, suppliers and channel partners, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle, divert management resources and attention and force us to acquire intellectual property rights and licenses, which may involve substantial royalty or other payments. Further, a party making such a claim, if successful, could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our solutions to our end customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute solutions that do not infringe, which could require significant effort and expense. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all, and as a result may significantly increase our operating expenses or require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. 38 Table of Contents The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions and covenants, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that any patents will be issued with respect to our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us adequate defensive protection or competitive advantages, if at all, or that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We have filed for patents in the United States and in certain international jurisdictions, but such protections may not be available in all countries in which we operate or in which we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, or may be difficult to enforce in practice. Our currently issued patents and any patents that may be issued in the future with respect to pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, solutions and other proprietary rights is expensive and difficult, particularly internationally. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, many of our current and potential competitors have the ability to dedicate substantially greater resources to defending intellectual property infringement claims and to enforcing their intellectual property rights than we have. Attempts to enforce our rights against third parties could also provoke these third parties to assert their own intellectual property or other rights against us, or result in a holding that invalidates or narrows the scope of our rights, in whole or in part. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our solutions are available. An inability to adequately protect and enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights could seriously harm our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley Act") and the rules and regulations of the Nasdaq Stock Market. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure