Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with (1) the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2025 filed on September 24, 2025. The last day of our fiscal year is July 31. Our fiscal quarters end on October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2025 and in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. See also "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above. Overview Nutanix, Inc. ("we," "us," "our," or "Nutanix") is a hybrid multicloud computing leader, offering organizations a unified software platform for running applications and AI and managing data anywhere. Our vision is to simplify the deployment and operation of the increasingly distributed landscape of apps and data while freeing organizations to focus on business goals. Our mission is to delight customers with an open, secure platform with rich data services that increases their ability to take advantage of new technologies such as cloud native and AI, optimizes how they run their organizations today, and accelerates innovation, efficiency, and growth. The Nutanix Cloud Platform is designed to enable organizations to build hybrid multicloud infrastructure, providing a consistent cloud operating model with a single platform for running applications and managing data in core data centers, at the edge, and in public clouds, while supporting customer choice across server platforms, storage options, public and managed clouds, and container and virtualization platforms. The Nutanix Cloud Platform supports a wide variety of workloads with varied compute, storage, and network requirements, including business-critical applications, data platforms (including SQL, NoSQL, and vector databases and business intelligence applications), enterprise AI workloads (including machine learning, generative AI, and agentic AI), general-purpose workloads (including system infrastructure, networking, and security), end-user computing and virtual desktop infrastructure services, and cloud native applications (including modern, containerized applications). We originally pioneered hyperconverged infrastructure ("HCI") to break down legacy silos by merging compute, storage and networking into a single software-defined data center platform. We continued to innovate and developed Nutanix AHV, our native hypervisor that offers enterprise-grade virtualization and built-in Kubernetes support. To provide our customers with more choice, we further engineered our software solutions to run on a variety of server platforms and with a variety of external storage providers, decoupling our software from the underlying hardware and powering a variety of hybrid multi cloud deployments, as part of our previously-completed transition from a hardware company to a software company. Most recently, we have extended our software platform support to include external storage from qualified partners. To provide our customers with the flexibility to choose their preferred license levels and durations based on their specific business needs, we reshaped our licensing by completing a transition to a subscription-based business model. In addition to enabling enterprise AI and simplifying hybrid multicloud deployments, we have a further long-term vision to enable developers to build modern container-based applications once and run them anywhere through Project Beacon, our multi-year effort to provide consistent Kubernetes platform management and data-centric platform services across clouds. Our business is organized into a single operating and reportable segment. We operate a subscription-based business model, meaning one in which our products, including associated support and maintenance arrangements, are sold with a defined duration. Our platform typically includes one or more years of support and maintenance, which provides customers with the right to software upgrades and enhancements as well as technical support. Purchases of term-based licenses and software-as-a-service ("SaaS") subscriptions have support and maintenance included within the subscription fees and are not sold separately. Purchases of non-portable software are typically accompanied by the purchase of separate support and maintenance. 30 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) We had a broad and diverse base of over 29,000 end customers as of October 31, 2025. We define the number of end customers as the number of end customers for which we have received an order by the last day of the period, excluding partners to which we have sold products for their own demonstration purposes. A single organization or customer may represent multiple end customers for separate divisions, segments or subsidiaries, and the total number of end customers may contract due to mergers, acquisitions, or other consolidation among existing end customers. Our solutions are primarily sold through our channel partners or original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") and delivered directly to our end customers. We have end customers across a broad range of industries, such as automotive, consumer goods, education, energy, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, media, public sector, retail, technology, and telecommunications. We also sell to service providers, who utilize our platform to provide a variety of cloud-based services to their customers. We plan to continue investing in initiatives that support the long-term growth of our business, including the development of our solutions and sales and marketing efforts aimed at capitalizing on market opportunities. Simultaneously, we are focused on improving our operating cash flow through operational efficiencies, including in our go-to-market functions. By maintaining this balance, we believe we can sustain profitable growth. Key Financial and Performance Metrics We monitor the following key financial and performance metrics: As of and for the Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 2025 (in thousands, except percentages and end customer count) Total revenue $ 590,956 $ 670,576 Year-over-year percentage increase 16 % 13 % Annual recurring revenue ("ARR") (1) $ 1,942,946 $ 2,284,051 Gross profit $ 508,286 $ 583,106 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 517,085 $ 589,826 Gross margin 86.0 % 87.0 % Non-GAAP gross margin 87.5 % 88.0 % Operating expenses $ 481,036 $ 533,771 Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 398,864 $ 457,977 Operating income $ 27,250 $ 49,335 Non-GAAP operating income $ 118,221 $ 131,849 Operating margin 4.6 % 7.4 % Non-GAAP operating margin 20.0 % 19.7 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 161,751 $ 196,825 Free cash flow $ 151,920 $ 174,506 Total end customers (2) 27,160 29,930 (1) Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2026, our methodology for calculating ARR was updated to align more closely with the timing of when licenses are made available to customers. For comparability purposes, ARR for all prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the updated methodology. (2) The total end customer count reflects standard adjustments/consolidation to certain customer accounts within our system of record and is rounded to the nearest 10. 31 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Disaggregation of Revenue The following table depicts the disaggregation of revenue by type, consistent with how we evaluate our financial performance: Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 2025 (in thousands) Disaggregation of revenue: Subscription revenue $ 560,696 $ 637,840 Professional services and other revenue (1) 30,260 32,736 Total revenue $ 590,956 $ 670,576 (1) Prior to fiscal 2026, these amounts were presented as separate line items, Professional services and Other non-subscription product, as described below. Prior period amounts have been updated to conform to the current period presentation. Subscription revenue Subscription revenue includes any performance obligation which has a defined duration and is generated from the sales of software maintenance subscriptions, support subscriptions, subscription software licenses and cloud-based SaaS offerings. Ratable We recognize revenue from software maintenance subscriptions, support subscriptions and SaaS offerings ratably over the contractual service period, the substantial majority of which relate to software maintenance subscriptions and support subscriptions. These offerings represented approximately $274.4 million of our subscription revenue for the three months ended October 31, 2024 and $307.3 million of our subscription revenue for the three months ended October 31, 2025. Upfront We generally recognize revenue from our subscription software licenses upfront upon the transfer of control to the customer. For sales that include a server from a channel partner or OEM, revenue is typically recognized upon shipment of the server. For sales of software sold without a server, revenue is typically recognized when the software is made available to the customer. These subscription software licenses represented approximately $286.3 million of our subscription revenue for the three months ended October 31, 2024 and $330.5 million of our subscription revenue for the three months ended October 31, 2025. Professional services and other revenue Includes Professional services revenue and Other non-subscription product revenue, as described below: Professional services revenue We also sell professional services with our products. We recognize revenue related to professional services as they are performed. Professional services revenue was approximately $27.3 million for the three months ended October 31, 2024 and $28.9 million for the three months ended October 31, 2025. Other non-subscription product revenue Includes Non-portable software revenue and Hardware revenue, which were immaterial for the periods presented. Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Key Performance Measures In addition to GAAP metrics, we regularly monitor ARR, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, free cash flow, and total end customers, which are non-GAAP financial measures and key performance measures, to help us evaluate our growth and operational efficiencies, measure our performance, identify trends in our sales activity and establish our budgets. We evaluate these measures because they: are used by management and our Board of Directors to understand and evaluate our performance and trends, as well as to provide a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our core business, particularly as we operate a subscription-based business model; are widely used as a measure of financial performance to understand and evaluate companies in our industry; and are used by management to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short-term and long-term operational and compensation plans, as well as to assess our actual performance against our goals. 32 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) ARR is a performance measure that we believe provides useful information to our management and investors as it allows us to better track the top-line growth of our subscription business (including our ability to acquire subscriptions with new customers and to retain and expand with existing customers), while normalizing for differences in contract durations. Non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, and non-GAAP operating margin are performance measures which we believe provide useful information to investors, as they provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance and liquidity by excluding certain expenses and expenditures, such as stock-based compensation expense, that may not be indicative of our ongoing core business operating results. Free cash flow is a performance measure that we believe provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after capital expenditures. We use these non-GAAP financial and key performance measures for financial and operational decision-making and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools and they should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our results as reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the United States. Non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and free cash flow are not substitutes for gross profit, gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, operating margin, or net cash provided by operating activities, respectively. There is no GAAP measure that is comparable to ARR, so we have not reconciled ARR numbers included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to any GAAP measure. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures and key performance measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures and key performance measures as tools for comparison. We urge you to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures and key performance measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures included below and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We calculate our non-GAAP financial and key performance measures as follows: ARR We calculate ARR as the sum of annual contract value ("ACV") for all subscription contracts from all customers in effect as of the end of a specific period, assuming any subscription contract that expires is renewed on its existing terms. ARR excludes the value of professional services, non-portable software and support contracts and hardware sales. For the purposes of this calculation, we generally assume that the contract term begins on the date when the software is made available to the customer. ACV is defined as the total annualized value of a contract. The total annualized value for a contract is calculated by dividing the total value of the contract by the number of years in the term of such contract. Beginning with the first quarter of fiscal 2026, our methodology for calculating ARR was updated to align more closely with the timing of when licenses are made available to customers. Our calculation of ARR is not adjusted for the impact of any known or projected future events (such as customer cancellations, expansion or contraction of existing customers relationships or price increases or decreases) that may cause any subscription contract not to be renewed on its existing terms. ARR is a performance measure that should be viewed independently of revenue and does not represent our revenue under GAAP on an annualized basis or a forecast of GAAP revenue. Investors should not place undue reliance on ARR as an indicator of our future or expected results. ARR does not have any standardized meaning and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled performance measures presented by other companies. Non-GAAP gross profit and Non-GAAP gross margin We calculate non-GAAP gross margin as non-GAAP gross profit divided by total revenue. We define non-GAAP gross profit as gross profit adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and costs associated with certain other non-recurring transactions. Our presentation of non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross margin should not be construed as implying that our future results will not be affected by any recurring expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items that we exclude from our calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP operating expenses We define non-GAAP operating expenses as total operating expenses adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, litigation settlement accruals and legal fees related to certain non-ordinary course litigation matters, and costs associated with certain other non-recurring transactions. Our presentation of non-GAAP operating expenses should not be construed as implying that our future results will not be affected by any recurring expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items that we exclude from our calculation of this non-GAAP financial measure. 33 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Non-GAAP operating income and Non-GAAP operating margin We calculate non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP operating income divided by total revenue. We define non-GAAP operating income as operating income adjusted to exclude stock-based compensation expense, amortization of acquired intangible assets, litigation settlement accruals and legal fees related to certain non-ordinary course litigation matters, and costs associated with certain other non-recurring transactions. Our presentation of non-GAAP operating income and non-GAAP operating margin should not be construed as implying that our future results will not be affected by any recurring expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items that we exclude from our calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures. Free cash flow We calculate free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, which measures our ability to generate cash from our business operations after our capital expenditures. Total end customers We define the number of end customers as the number of end customers for which we have received an order by the last day of the period, excluding partners to which we have sold products for their own demonstration purposes. A single organization or customer may represent multiple end customers for separate divisions, segments, or subsidiaries, and the total number of end customers may contract due to mergers, acquisitions, or other consolidation among existing end customers. The following table presents a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, and free cash flow to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 2025 (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 508,286 $ 583,106 Stock-based compensation 8,032 6,614 Amortization of intangible assets 767 106 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 517,085 $ 589,826 Gross margin 86.0 % 87.0 % Stock-based compensation 1.4 % 1.0 % Amortization of intangible assets 0.1 % Non-GAAP gross margin 87.5 % 88.0 % Operating expenses $ 481,036 $ 533,771 Stock-based compensation (80,717 ) (71,146 ) Amortization of intangible assets (88 ) (88 ) Litigation settlement accrual and legal fees (1,367 ) (4,560 ) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 398,864 $ 457,977 Operating income $ 27,250 $ 49,335 Stock-based compensation 88,749 77,760 Amortization of intangible assets 855 194 Litigation settlement accrual and legal fees 1,367 4,560 Non-GAAP operating income $ 118,221 $ 131,849 Operating margin 4.6 % 7.4 % Stock-based compensation 15.1 % 11.6 % Amortization of intangible assets 0.1 % Litigation settlement accrual and legal fees 0.2 % 0.7 % Non-GAAP operating margin 20.0 % 19.7 % Net cash provided by operating activities $ 161,751 $ 196,825 Purchases of property and equipment (9,831 ) (22,319 ) Free cash flow (non-GAAP) $ 151,920 $ 174,506 34 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future success will depend on many factors, including those described below. While these areas present significant opportunity, they also present risks that we must manage to achieve successful results. See the section titled "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2025 and the section titled "Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for details. If we are unable to address these challenges, our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Investment in Profitable Growth We plan to continue investing in initiatives that support our long-term growth, while also focusing on improving our operating cash flow through operational efficiencies, including in our go-to-market functions. By maintaining this balance, we believe we can sustain profitable growth. Investment in Sales and Marketing Our ability to drive top-line growth depends, in large part, on our ability to capitalize on our market opportunity, including our ability to recruit, train and retain sufficient numbers of ramped sales personnel. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing functions, including initiatives focused on opportunities with major accounts, large deals, and commercial accounts, as well as other initiatives to increase our pipeline growth. As we continue to recruit additional sales representatives, it will take time to train and ramp them to full productivity. As a result, we expect that our overall sales and marketing expense will increase in the near term. We estimate, based on past experience, that our average sales team members typically become fully ramped up around the start of their fourth quarter of employment with us, and as our newer employees ramp up, we expect their increased productivity to contribute to our revenue growth. As we continue to focus some of our newer and existing sales team members on major accounts and large deals, and as we operate our subscription-based business model, it may take longer, potentially significantly, for these sales team members to become fully productive, and there may also be an impact to the overall productivity of our sales team. As part of our overall efforts to improve our operating margin performance, we have also proactively taken steps to increase our go-to-market productivity and over time, we intend to reduce our overall sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue. These measures include addressing a growing mix of renewals, which have a lower cost than landing new customers or expanding into our existing customer base, improving the efficiency of our demand generation spend, increasing leverage of our channel partners and OEMs, including supporting new OEMs, and optimizing headcount in geographies based on market opportunities. Investment in Research and Development We plan to continue investing in our global research and development teams to support enhancements to our solutions, improve integration with ecosystem partners and expand the range of technologies and features available through our platform. These investments are intended to strengthen our core offerings and enable us to respond to evolving technology trends, including developments in generative AI and modern applications across hybrid and multicloud environments. We believe that these investments will support our long-term growth strategy, although they may result in increased expenses and adversely affect our profitability in the near term. Our Subscription-Based Business Model We operate a subscription-based business model to provide our customers with the flexibility to choose their preferred license levels and durations based on their specific business needs. A subscription-based business model means one in which our products, including associated support and maintenance arrangements, are sold with a defined duration. Subscription-based sales consist of subscription term-based licenses and offerings with ongoing performance obligations, including software maintenance subscriptions, support subscriptions and cloud-based SaaS offerings. Revenue from subscription term-based licenses is generally recognized upfront upon transfer of control to the customer, which occurs when we make the software available to the customer. Accordingly, any reduction in the total average contract duration of our subscription term-based licenses would decrease the amount of license revenue recognized upfront and could adversely affect our revenue for the applicable period. Revenue from software maintenance subscriptions, support subscriptions and cloud-based SaaS offerings is recognized ratably over the contractual service period. Accordingly, any decline in such subscriptions, whether new subscriptions or renewals, in any given fiscal quarter may not be fully or immediately reflected in our revenue for that quarter. For additional information on revenue recognition, see Note 2 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 35 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Market Adoption of Our Products Hybrid and multicloud architectures, as well as trends in enterprise AI and modern containerized applications, have affected IT buyer expectations around the simplicity, agility, scalability, portability, and pay-as-you-grow economics of IT resources. A key focus of our sales and marketing efforts is creating market awareness of the benefits of our platform. This includes our newer solutions that extend beyond our core hyperconverged infrastructure offering, both as compared to traditional data center architectures, as well as the public cloud, particularly as we continue to pursue large enterprises and mission critical workloads. Our business and operating results will be significantly affected by the degree to and speed with which organizations adopt our platform. Leveraging Partners We plan to continue to leverage our relationships with our channel and OEM partners and expand our network of cloud and ecosystem partners, all of which help to drive the adoption and sale of our solutions with our end customers. We sell our solutions primarily through our partners, and our solutions primarily run on hardware platforms that our customers often choose to purchase from our channel or OEM partners. We believe that increasing channel leverage, particularly as we expand our focus on opportunities in commercial accounts, by investing in sales enablement and co-marketing with our channel and OEM partners in the long term will extend and improve our engagement with a broad set of end customers. Our reliance on manufacturers, including our channel and OEM partners, to produce the hardware platforms on which our software runs exposes us to supply chain delays, which could impair our ability to provide services to end customers in a timely manner. Our business and results of operations will be significantly affected by our success in leveraging our relationships with our channel and OEM partners and expanding our network of cloud and ecosystem partners. Customer Acquisition, Retention and Expansion Our business and operating results will depend on our ability to obtain new end customers and retain and sell additional solutions to our existing base of end customers. Our ability to obtain new end customers and retain and sell additional solutions to existing customers will in turn depend in part on a number of factors. These factors include our ability to: execute on our business plans, vision, and objectives (including our growth and go-to-market strategies), respond to competitive pressures, effectively maintain existing and future customer relationships, continue to innovate by adding new functionality and improving usability of our solutions in a manner that addresses our end customers needs and requirements, and optimally price our solutions in light of marketplace conditions, our ability to respond to competitive pressures, manage our costs, and anticipate and manage customer demand. Furthermore, our subscription-based business model and product transitions may cause concerns among our customer base, including concerns regarding changes to pricing over time, and may also result in confusion among new and existing end customers, for example, regarding our pricing models. Such concerns and/or confusion can slow adoption and renewal rates among our current and future customer base. Our end customers typically deploy our technology for a specific workload initially. After a new end customer's initial order, which includes the product and associated software maintenance subscriptions, support subscription and services, we focus on expanding our footprint by serving more workloads. We also generate recurring revenue from renewals, and given our subscription-focused business model, these renewals are having an increasing significance for our future revenue streams as existing subscriptions come up for renewal. We view continued purchases and upgrades as critical drivers of our success. As of October 31, 2025, our net dollar-based retention rate ("NRR") was 109%, compared to 112% as of October 31, 2024. NRR is calculated as of the end of a twelve-month period. We calculate NRR by starting with the ARR for all customers with subscription contracts at the beginning of the period. We then divide end-of-the-period ARR for the same customer group by the beginning-of-the-period ARR. NRR is a performance measure that we believe provides useful information to our management and investors as it provides an indication of our ability to retain and expand ARR from our existing customer base. Over time, our sales pipeline has evolved to include a higher mix of larger deal opportunities, which often take longer to close and require more levels of review from the customer's executive team, involve greater competition, and have greater variability in timing, outcome and deal structure. These trends drive greater variability in our ability to land new customers and expand sales to existing customers, and our top-line results may be adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Macroeconomic Conditions Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions and their impact on customer and partner behavior. Macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency fluctuations, tariffs or other trade restrictions, geopolitical issues, changes in government policy or spending, and other changes in economic conditions, may adversely affect the buying patterns of our customers and prospective customers, including the length of sales cycles, our overall pipeline and pipeline conversion, and our top-line growth expectations. Due to our subscription-focused business model, any impact of the current macroeconomic environment on our business, particularly as a result of changes in our customer and partner behavior, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods, if at all. As we continue to monitor the direct and indirect impacts of the current environment, the broader implications of macroeconomic conditions on our business, results of operations and financial condition, particularly in the long term, remain uncertain. Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue primarily from the sale of the Nutanix Cloud Platform, sold primarily as subscription term-based licenses, and which can be deployed on a variety of qualified hardware platforms or, in the case of our cloud-based SaaS offerings, via hosted service or delivered pre-installed on a server that is configured to order. Non-portable software licenses are delivered or sold alongside configured-to-order servers and can be used over the life of the associated server. Our subscription term-based licenses are sold separately, or can be sold alongside configured-to-order servers. Our subscription term-based licenses typically have a term of one to five years. Our cloud-based SaaS subscriptions have terms extending up to five years. Our customers generally purchase their qualified hardware platforms for deployment of our software from one of our channel partners or OEMs. Our platform typically includes one or more years of support and maintenance, which provides customers with the right to software upgrades and enhancements as well as technical support. Our platform is primarily sold through channel partners and OEMs. Revenue is recognized net of sales tax and withholding tax. Product revenue Product revenue primarily consists of software revenue. A majority of our product revenue is generated from the sale of the Nutanix Cloud Platform. We also sell renewals of previously purchased software licenses and SaaS offerings. We recognize revenue from our software products upon the transfer of control to the customer. For sales that include a server from a channel partner or OEM, revenue is typically recognized upon shipment of the server. For sales of software sold without a server, revenue is typically recognized when the software is made available to the customer. For our SaaS offerings, revenue is typically recognized as the services are performed. In the infrequent transactions where the hardware is purchased directly from Nutanix, we consider ourselves to be the principal in the transaction and we record revenue and costs of goods sold on a gross basis. Support, maintenance and other services revenue We generate our support, maintenance and other services revenue primarily from software maintenance subscriptions and support subscriptions, which include the right to software upgrades and enhancements as well as technical support. The majority of our product sales are sold in conjunction with software maintenance subscriptions and support subscriptions, with terms ranging from one to five years. Occasionally, we also sell professional services with our products. We recognize revenue from software maintenance subscriptions and support contracts ratably over the contractual service period, which typically commences upon transfer of control of the corresponding products to the customer. We recognize revenue related to professional services as they are performed. Cost of Revenue Cost of product revenue Cost of product revenue consists of costs paid to OEM partners, hardware costs, personnel costs associated with our operations function, consisting of salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation, cloud-based costs associated with our SaaS offerings, and allocated costs. Allocated costs consist of certain facilities, depreciation and amortization, recruiting, and information technology costs that are allocated based on headcount. 37 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Cost of support, maintenance and other services revenue Cost of support, maintenance and other services revenue includes personnel and operating costs associated with our global customer support and services organization, as well as allocated costs. We expect our cost of support, maintenance and other services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our support, maintenance and other services revenue increases. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of sales and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. The largest component of our operating expenses is personnel costs. Personnel costs consist of wages, benefits, bonuses and, with respect to sales and marketing expenses, sales commissions. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including sales commissions. Sales and marketing expense also includes costs for promotional activities and other marketing costs, travel expenses, costs associated with demonstration units, including depreciation, and allocated costs. Commissions are deferred and recognized as we recognize the associated revenue. We expect sales and marketing expense to continue, in the long term, to increase in absolute dollars as part of our long-term plans to invest in our growth. However, as part of our overall efforts to improve our operating cash flow performance, we have also proactively taken steps to increase our go-to-market productivity and over time, we intend to reduce our overall sales and marketing spend as a percentage of revenue. As we continue to recruit additional sales representatives, it will take time to train and ramp them to full productivity. As a result, our sales and marketing expense may fluctuate. Research and development Research and development ("R&D") expense consists primarily of personnel costs, as well as other direct and allocated costs. We have devoted our product development efforts primarily to enhancing the functionality and expanding the capabilities of our solutions. R&D costs are expensed as incurred, unless they meet the criteria for capitalization. We expect R&D expense, in the long term, to increase in absolute dollars as part of our long-term plans to invest in our future products and services, including our newer subscription-based products, although R&D expense may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue and, on an absolute basis, from quarter to quarter. General and administrative General and administrative ("G&A") expense consists primarily of personnel costs, which include our executive, finance, human resources, and legal organizations. G&A expense also includes outside professional services, which consists primarily of legal, accounting and other consulting costs, as well as insurance and other costs associated with being a public company and allocated costs. We expect G&A expense, in the long term, to increase in absolute dollars, particularly due to additional legal, accounting, insurance, and other costs associated with our growth, although G&A expense may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue and, on an absolute basis, from quarter to quarter. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income and expense, which includes the amortization of the debt discount and debt issuance costs associated with our outstanding 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2027 (the "2027 Notes") and our outstanding 0.50% convertible senior notes due 2029 (the "2029 Notes"), interest expense on the 2027 Notes and 2029 Notes, inducement expense related to the partial repurchase of the 2027 Notes, interest income related to our short-term investments, and foreign currency exchange gains or losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes for certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business and federal and state income taxes in the United States. We have recorded a full valuation allowance related to our federal and state net operating losses and other net deferred tax assets due to the uncertainty of the ultimate realization of the future benefits of those assets. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act ("OBBBA"), signed into law on July 4, 2025, has officially repealed the amortization requirement under IRC Section 174, restoring immediate expensing for domestic R&E expenditures. Effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2024, taxpayers may deduct domestic R&E expenditures immediately and for the R&E expenditures capitalized from 2022 to 2024, OBBBA also allows taxpayers to make an election to accelerate the deductions over one year or two years. We have assessed the impact of OBBBA on our fiscal 2026 provision for income taxes and determined that there is no material impact to our financial statements for fiscal 2026. 38 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Results of Operations The following tables set forth our condensed consolidated results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of total revenue for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 2025 (in thousands) Revenue: Product $ 301,919 $ 349,003 Support, maintenance and other services 289,037 321,573 Total revenue 590,956 670,576 Cost of revenue: Product (1)(2) 8,370 4,292 Support, maintenance and other services (1) 74,300 83,178 Total cost of revenue 82,670 87,470 Gross profit 508,286 583,106 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1)(2) 253,401 285,233 Research and development (1) 173,959 187,482 General and administrative (1) 53,676 61,056 Total operating expenses 481,036 533,771 Income from operations 27,250 49,335 Other income, net 9,573 16,239 Income before provision for income taxes 36,823 65,574 Provision for income taxes 6,897 3,478 Net income $ 29,926 $ 62,096 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Product cost of revenue $ 1,212 $ 359 Support, maintenance and other services cost of revenue 6,820 6,255 Sales and marketing 20,648 17,760 Research and development 43,562 39,501 General and administrative 16,507 13,885 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 88,749 $ 77,760 (2) Includes amortization of intangible assets as follows: Product cost of revenue $ 767 $ 106 Sales and marketing 88 88 Total amortization of intangible assets $ 855 $ 194 39 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 2025 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue: Product 51.1 % 52.0 % Support, maintenance and other services 48.9 % 48.0 % Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue: Product 1.4 % 0.6 % Support, maintenance and other services 12.6 % 12.4 % Total cost of revenue 14.0 % 13.0 % Gross profit 86.0 % 87.0 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 42.9 % 42.5 % Research and development 29.4 % 28.0 % General and administrative 9.1 % 9.1 % Total operating expenses 81.4 % 79.6 % Income from operations 4.6 % 7.4 % Other income, net 1.6 % 2.4 % Income before provision for income taxes 6.2 % 9.8 % Provision for income taxes 1.2 % 0.5 % Net income 5.0 % 9.3 % 40 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Comparison of the Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 and 2025 Revenue Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Product $ 301,919 $ 349,003 $ 47,084 16 % Support, maintenance and other services 289,037 321,573 32,536 11 % Total revenue $ 590,956 $ 670,576 $ 79,620 13 % Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) U.S. $ 332,728 $ 385,973 $ 53,245 16 % Europe, the Middle East and Africa 151,191 173,780 22,589 15 % Asia Pacific 95,819 90,085 (5,734 ) (6 )% Other Americas 11,218 20,738 9,520 85 % Total revenue $ 590,956 $ 670,576 $ 79,620 13 % Product revenue increased by approximately $47.1 million, or 16%, for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to increases in software revenue as a result of increased adoption of our products, driven by growth in software renewals and the various programs we have put in place to attract new customers onto our platform and expand with existing customers. Support, maintenance and other services revenue increased by approximately $32.5 million, or 11%, for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, in conjunction with the growth of our end customer base, which grew approximately 10% from October 31, 2024 to October 31, 2025, and the related software maintenance and support subscription contracts and renewals. For the three months ended October 31, 2024, the total average contract duration was approximately 3.1 years. For the three months ended October 31, 2025, the total average contract duration was approximately 3.1 years. Total average contract duration represents the dollar-weighted term across all subscription contracts, as well as our limited number of life-of-device contracts billed during the period, using an assumed term of five years for licenses without a specified term, such as life-of-device licenses. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of product revenue $ 8,370 $ 4,292 $ (4,078 ) (49 )% Product gross margin 97.2 % 98.8 % Cost of support, maintenance and other services revenue $ 74,300 $ 83,178 $ 8,878 12 % Support, maintenance and other services gross margin 74.3 % 74.1 % Total gross margin 86.0 % 87.0 % Cost of product revenue Cost of product revenue decreased for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to decreases in overhead resulting from lower operating and finance lease costs. 41 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Product gross margin increased by approximately 1.6 percentage points for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to product revenue increasing while cost of product revenue decreased. Cost of support, maintenance and other services revenue Cost of support, maintenance and other services revenue increased for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to higher personnel-related costs, including costs for contractors, resulting from growth in our global customer support organization, as well as an increase in bonus expense and benefits costs. Support, maintenance and other services gross margin decreased by approximately 0.2 percentage points for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to support, maintenance and other services revenue growing at a slower rate than personnel-related costs. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 253,401 $ 285,233 $ 31,832 13 % Percent of total revenue 42.9 % 42.5 % Sales and marketing expense increased for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to higher personnel-related costs resulting from the 8% growth in our sales and marketing headcount from October 31, 2024 to October 31, 2025, as well as increased marketing spend on events. Research and development Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 173,959 $ 187,482 $ 13,523 8 % Percent of total revenue 29.4 % 28.0 % Research and development expense increased for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to higher personnel-related costs due to the 13% growth in our R&D headcount from October 31, 2024 to October 31, 2025, as well as an increase in bonus expense and benefits costs. General and administrative Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 53,676 $ 61,056 $ 7,380 14 % Percent of total revenue 9.1 % 9.1 % General and administrative expense increased for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to higher legal and outside services costs and higher personnel-related costs, resulting from the 9% growth in our G&A headcount from October 31, 2024 to October 31, 2025, as well as an increase in overhead resulting from higher operating and finance lease costs. 42 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 11,094 $ 19,834 $ 8,740 79 % Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs and interest expense (745 ) (2,993 ) (2,248 ) (302 )% Other (776 ) (602 ) 174 22 % Other income (expense), net $ 9,573 $ 16,239 $ 6,666 70 % Other income (expense), net increased for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, due primarily to an increase in interest income from our short-term investments, which increased from $358.8 million as of October 31, 2024 to $1,281.8 million as of October 31, 2025, partially offset by an increase in interest expense related to our convertible notes, as the 2029 Notes were issued in the second quarter of fiscal 2025. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended October 31, Change 2024 2025 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Provision for income taxes $ 6,897 $ 3,478 $ (3,419 ) (50 )% The decrease in the income tax provision for the three months ended October 31, 2025, as compared to the prior year period, was due primarily to a decrease in our effective tax rate, which was largely driven by an increase in U.S. income, partially offset by the utilization of net operating losses that have a full valuation allowance. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and net accounts receivable. As of October 31, 2025, we had approximately $780.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1,281.8 million of short-term investments, which were held for general corporate purposes. Our restricted cash balance was not material. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments primarily consist of bank deposits, money market accounts and highly rated debt instruments of the U.S. government and its agencies and debt instruments of highly rated corporations. As of October 31, 2025, we had accounts receivable of approximately $335.9 million, net of allowances of $2.2 million. In September 2021, we issued convertible senior notes with a 0.25% interest rate for an aggregate principal amount of $575.0 million due 2027, of which $477.3 million in principal amount was issued in exchange for approximately $416.5 million principal amount of the 2023 Notes and the remaining $97.7 million in principal amount was issued for cash. There are no required principal payments on the 2027 Notes prior to their maturity. In December 2024, we issued convertible senior notes with a 0.50% interest rate for an aggregate principal amount of $862.5 million due 2029. We used approximately $95.5 million of the net proceeds from the offering to repurchase $75.0 million aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 2027 Notes. There are no required principal payments on the 2029 Notes prior to their maturity. In February 2025, we entered into a revolving credit agreement (the "Revolver") that provides for a senior secured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million, including a $25.0 million sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit. The Revolver matures in February 2030, subject to earlier springing maturity under certain circumstances. As of October 31, 2025, we had no borrowings and an immaterial amount of letters of credit outstanding under the Revolver. The Revolver contains customary affirmative and negative covenants (including a financial covenant and restrictions on liens, investments, indebtedness, fundamental changes, restricted payments, transactions with affiliates, prepayments of subordinated debt and other matters, all subject to certain exceptions). The financial covenant requires us to maintain a total leverage ratio of less than or equal to 3.75:1.00, tested at the end of each fiscal quarter. As of October 31, 2025, we were in compliance with the financial covenant. 43 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) For additional information regarding our debt offerings, see Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, available borrowing capacity under the Revolver, and our expected net cash provided by operating activities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs, including for working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases (if any), the payment of taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards, and convertible notes servicing and repayment requirements, for at least the next 12 months. Our future cash needs will depend on many factors, including our growth strategy and plans, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development and engineering efforts; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the introduction of new and enhanced product and service offerings; the continuing market acceptance of our products; our end customers and partners; any acquisitions of businesses, technologies or products; any share repurchases; and market, economic and financial conditions (including inflation and interest rates). Holders of the 2027 Notes or the 2029 Notes will be entitled to convert their 2027 Notes or 2029 Notes under certain circumstances as described in Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. If one or more holders elect to convert their 2027 Notes or 2029 Notes, as applicable, we may elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering shares of our Class A common stock or a combination of cash and shares of Class A common stock, rather than exclusively in cash. Purchase Obligations, Lease Commitments and Other Obligations As of October 31, 2025, we had non-cancelable contractual purchase obligations of $166.9 million, all of which was short-term. These purchase obligations primarily include guarantees with contract manufacturers and purchase obligations and other commitments pertaining to our daily business operations. As of October 31, 2025, we had aggregate future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases and finance leases of $189.7 million, of which $41.7 million was short-term. Non-cancelable leases include leases that have been executed, but not yet commenced. We lease offices, research and development facilities, and data centers under operating leases expiring through October 2030 and lease certain data center equipment under finance leases. As of October 31, 2025, we had accrued liabilities related to uncertain tax positions, which are reflected on our consolidated balance sheet. These accrued liabilities are not reflected in the contractual obligations disclosed above, as it is uncertain if or when such amounts will ultimately be settled. Capital Return In August 2023, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $350.0 million of our Class A common stock. In August 2025, our Board of Directors approved a $350.0 million increase to the share repurchase authorization. Repurchases will be funded from available liquidity and may be made from time to time through open market purchases, in privately negotiated transactions, or by other means, including through the use of trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act in accordance with applicable securities laws and other restrictions. The timing and amount of share repurchases will depend upon prevailing stock prices, business and market conditions, corporate and regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities, and other factors. The authorization has no expiration date, may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time, and does not obligate us to repurchase any minimum number of shares. For more information on the share repurchase, refer to Note 8 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended October 31, 2024 2025 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 161,751 $ 196,825 Net cash used in investing activities (28,194 ) (74,547 ) Net cash used in financing activities (72,225 ) (111,359 ) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 61,332 $ 10,919 44 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was approximately $196.8 million for the three months ended October 31, 2025, compared to approximately $161.8 million for the three months ended October 31, 2024. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended October 31, 2025 was due primarily to the increase in our net income from operations. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of approximately $28.2 million for the three months ended October 31, 2024 included approximately $110.0 million of short-term investment purchases and $9.8 million of purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by $91.6 million of maturities of short-term investments. Net cash used in investing activities of approximately $74.5 million for the three months ended October 31, 2025 included approximately $290.1 million of short-term investment purchases and $22.3 million of purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by approximately $236.6 million of maturities of short-term investments and $1.3 million of sales of short-term investments. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of approximately $72.2 million for the three months ended October 31, 2024 included approximately $79.3 million of taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards, $20.1 million of repurchases of our Class A common stock, and $1.0 million of payments for finance lease obligations, partially offset by $28.1 million of proceeds from the sale of shares through employee equity incentive plans. Net cash used in financing activities of approximately $111.4 million for the three months ended October 31, 2025 included approximately $89.2 million of taxes paid related to the net share settlement of equity awards and $50.2 million of repurchases of our Class A common stock, partially offset by approximately $29.0 million of proceeds from the sale of shares through employee equity incentive plans. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the applicable periods. We evaluate our estimates, assumptions and judgments on an ongoing basis. Our estimates, assumptions and judgments are based on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different assumptions and judgments would change the estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, which, in turn, could change the results from those reported. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2025. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements. 45 Table of Contents