Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows should be read in conjunction with (1) the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and (2) the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2022 filed on September 21, 2022. The last day of our fiscal year is July 31. Our fiscal quarters end on October 31, January 31, April 30 and July 31. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July 31, 2022 and in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. See also "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" above. Overview Nutanix, Inc. ("we," "us," "our" or "Nutanix") provides a leading enterprise cloud platform, which we call the Nutanix Cloud Platform, that consists of software solutions and cloud services that power our customers enterprise infrastructure. Our solutions deliver a consistent cloud operating model across edge, private-, hybrid- and multicloud environments for all applications and their data. Our solutions allow organizations to simply move their workloads, including enterprise applications, high-performance databases, end-user computing and virtual desktop infrastructure ("VDI") services, container-based modern applications, and analytics applications, between on-premises and public clouds. Our goal is to provide a single, simple, open software platform for all hybrid and multicloud applications and their data. The Nutanix Cloud Platform can be deployed on-premises at the edge or in data centers, running on a variety of qualified hardware platforms, in popular public cloud environments such as AWS and Microsoft Azure through Nutanix Cloud Clusters, or, in the case of our cloud-based software and software-as-a-service ("SaaS") offerings, via hosted service. Non-portable software licenses for our platform are delivered or sold alongside configured-to-order appliances, with a license term equal to the life of the associated appliance. Our subscription term-based licenses are sold separately, or can also be sold alongside configured-to-order appliances. Our subscription term-based licenses typically have terms ranging from one to five years. Our cloud-based SaaS subscriptions have terms extending up to five years. Configured-to-order appliances, including our Nutanix-branded NX hardware line, can be purchased from one of our channel partners, original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") or, in limited cases, directly from Nutanix. Our enterprise cloud platform typically includes one or more years of support and entitlements, which provides customers with the right to software upgrades and enhancements as well as technical support. Purchases of term-based licenses and SaaS subscriptions have support and entitlements included within the subscription fees and are not sold separately. Purchases of non-portable software are typically accompanied by the purchase of separate support and entitlements. Product revenue is generated primarily from the licensing of our solutions. Support, entitlements and other services revenue is primarily derived from the related support and maintenance contracts. Prior to fiscal 2019, we delivered most of our solutions on an appliance, thus our revenue included the revenue associated with the appliance and the included non-portable software, which lasts for the life of the associated appliance. However, starting in fiscal 2018, as a result of our business model transition toward software-only sales, more of our customers began buying appliances directly from our OEMs while separately buying licenses for our software solutions from us or one of our channel partners. In addition, starting in fiscal 2019, as a result of our transition towards a subscription-based business model, more of our customers began purchasing separately sold subscription term-based licenses that could be deployed on a variety of hardware platforms. As we continue our transition to a subscription-based business model, we expect a greater portion of our products to be delivered through subscription term-based licenses or cloud-based SaaS subscriptions. We had a broad and diverse base of over 23,000 end customers as of October 31, 2022, including approximately 990 Global 2000 enterprises. We define the number of end customers as the number of end customers for which we have received an order by the last day of the period, excluding partners to which we have sold products for their own demonstration purposes. A single organization or customer may represent multiple end customers for separate divisions, segments or subsidiaries, and the total number of end customers may contract due to mergers, acquisitions, or other consolidation among existing end customers. 34 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Our solutions are primarily sold through channel partners and OEMs, and delivered directly to our end customers. Our solutions serve a broad range of workloads, including enterprise applications, databases, virtual desktop infrastructure, unified communications and big data analytics, and we support both virtualized and container-based applications. We have end customers across a broad range of industries, such as automotive, consumer goods, education, energy, financial services, healthcare, manufacturing, media, public sector, retail, technology and telecommunications. We also sell to service providers, who utilize our enterprise cloud platform to provide a variety of cloud-based services to their customers. We continue to invest in the growth of our business over the long-run, including the development of our solutions and investing in sales and marketing to capitalize on our market opportunities, while improving our operating cash flow performance by focusing on go-to-market efficiencies. By maintaining this balance, we believe we can drive toward profitable growth. As discussed further in the "Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic" and "Factors Affecting Our Performance" sections below, both in response to the ongoing and evolving COVID-19 pandemic and as part of our overall efforts to improve our operating cash flow performance, we have proactively taken steps to manage our expenses. As a result, our overall spending on such efforts will fluctuate, and may decline, from quarter to quarter in the near-term. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing and evolving pandemic caused by the COVID-19 virus (collectively with any variants or related strains thereof, "COVID-19" and the ongoing pandemic caused thereby, the "COVID-19 pandemic") significantly curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, imposed unprecedented strains on governments, health care systems, educational institutions, businesses and individuals around the world, including in nearly all of the regions in which we operate, and has resulted in significant volatility and uncertainty in the global economy. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact our workforce and operations, as well as those of our customers, vendors, suppliers, partners, and communities, and there is uncertainty in the nature and degree of its continued effects over time. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took a number of actions to protect and assist our employees, customers, and partners, including: temporarily closing all of our offices (including our California headquarters) around the world; encouraging our employees to work remotely; implementing travel restrictions that allow only the most essential business travel; and postponing, cancelling, withdrawing from, or converting to virtual-only experiences (where possible and appropriate) our in-person customer, industry, analyst, investor, and employee events. While we have generally reopened our offices around the world, for so long as the pandemic continues, our employees may continue to be exposed to health and safety risks, and governmental protocols may require us to again close those offices that have since been reopened. The COVID-19 pandemic and the measures taken in response to the pandemic, including our own measures, have already caused, and may continue to cause, various adverse effects on the global economy and our business, including: curtailed demand for certain of our solutions; reduced IT spending; delays in or abandonment of planned or future purchases; lengthened sales cycles, particularly with new customers and partners who do not have prior experience with our solutions; supply chain disruptions; increased cybersecurity risks or other security challenges; delays or disruptions to our product roadmap and our ability to deliver new products, features, or enhancements; and voluntary and involuntary delays in the ability to ship, and the ability of our end customers to accept delivery of, the hardware platforms on which our software solutions run. Reduced manufacturing capacity caused by the pandemic, together with measures taken in response to the pandemic, have led to increased supply chain challenges with increased hardware supply chain delays resulting in an increasing percentage of orders having start dates in future quarters and certain customers delaying their purchase of our software pending availability of the hardware on which our software runs. Travel bans, shutdowns, social distancing restrictions and remote work policies also make it difficult or impossible to deliver on-site services to our partners and end customers, and to meet with our current and potential end customers in person. We have also seen positive impacts, including increased demand for our virtual desktop, desktop-as-a-service, and end-user computing solutions as a result of our end customers enabling their employees to work remotely. 35 Table of Contents NUTANIX, INC. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The duration, scope and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business remain highly fluid and cannot be predicted with certainty, and the full effect of the pandemic and the actions we have taken in response may not be fully reflected in our results of operations and financial performance until future periods. Our management team is focused on guiding our company through the challenges presented by COVID-19 and remains committed to driving positive business outcomes. Although we do not currently expect the pandemic to affect our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting or disclosure