ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, could, goal, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, project, predict, potential and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All references to NVIDIA, we, us, our or the Company mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Icera, Kepler, Quadro, Tegra, and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2012 and Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. Overview Our Company NVIDIA is known to millions around the world for creating the graphics chips used in personal computers, or PCs, that bring games and home movies to life. With the invention of the graphics processing unit, or GPU, we introduced the world to the power of computer graphics. Today, we reach well beyond PC graphics. Our energy-efficient processors power a broad range of products, from smart phones to supercomputers. Our mobile processors are used in cell phones, tablets and auto infotainment systems. PC gamers rely on our GPUs to enjoy visually immersive worlds. Designers use GPUs to create visual effects in movies and create everything from golf clubs to jumbo jets. Researchers utilize GPUs to push the frontiers of science with high-performance computing. NVIDIA has nearly 5,000 patents granted and pending worldwide. NVIDIA solutions are based on two important technologies: the GPU and the mobile processor. Both are highly complex chips, designed by NVIDIA engineers, and manufactured for us by a third party chip foundry. GPUs are the engines of visual computing, the science and art of using computers to understand, create and enhance images. One of the most complex processors ever created, the most advanced GPUs contain billions of transistors. We have three GPU product brands: GeForce, which creates realistic visual experiences for gamers; Quadro, the standard in visual computing for designers and digital artists; and Tesla, which accelerates applications for scientists and researchers. Mobile processors incorporate central processing unit, or CPU, and GPU technologies to deliver an entire computer system on a single chip, or system-on-chip. Modern mobile processors possess significant computing capabilities yet consume one hundred times less energy than a typical PC. Tegra is our mobile processor and is built for applications ranging from smartphones, tablets and notebook PCs to televisions and cars. We believe energy-efficient mobile computing will transform how computers are used in our lives. 25 We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address is www.nvidia.com . The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10-Q. Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges During the first quarter of fiscal year 2013, we launched our new Kepler GPU architecture. Our first Kepler products to be launched were the GeForce GTX 670 and GeForce GTX 680, which are faster, smaller and more power efficient than our previous architecture. We also introduced our third GeForce Kepler product, the GeForce GTX 690, which uses two Kepler GPUs to further enhance performance. We also refreshed our notebook GPUs with the launch of the GeForce 600M series. Acer's Aspire Timeline M3, which incorporates the GeForce 600M, is the first Ultrabook with an NVIDIA GPU. In addition, the first Tegra 3 phone, the HTC One X was launched during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. Other noteworthy phone wins announced at Mobile World Congress in March, 2012 include ZTE, the first Tegra plus Icera phone, Fujitsu, LG and K-Touch. Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. We report financial information for three operating segments to our CODM: Graphics Processing Unit, or GPU, Business; Professional Solutions Business, or PSB; and Consumer Products Business, or CPB. The GPU business is comprised of our desktop, notebook, memory and chipset products. Our GPU business also includes license revenue in connection with our patent cross license agreement with Intel. The PSB includes Quadro workstation graphics and Tesla high-performance computing products. The CPB is comprised of Tegra based smartphone and tablet products as well as Icera baseband processors and radio frequency, or RF, transceivers. Our CPB also includes embedded products for entertainment and automotive devices as well as license and royalty revenue associated with game consoles. In addition to these operating segments, we also have an All Other category that includes non-recurring charges and benefits that we do not allocate to our operating segments as these items are not included in the segment operating performance measures evaluated by our CODM. There were no non-recurring charges or benefits for the three months ended April 29, 2012 and May 1, 2011 , respectively. Please refer to Note 14 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further disclosure regarding segment information. Our CODM does not review any information regarding total assets on an operating segment basis. Operating segments do not record intersegment revenue, and, accordingly, there is none to be reported. The accounting policies for segment reporting are the same as for NVIDIA as a whole. 26 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended April 29, 2012 May 1, 2011 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 49.9 49.6 Gross profit 50.1 50.4 Operating expenses Research and development 30.7 24.1 Sales, general and administrative 11.5 10.2 Total operating expenses 42.2 34.3 Operating income 7.9 16.1 Interest and other income, net 0.5 0.2 Income before income tax 8.4 16.3 Income tax expense 1.8 2.2 Net income 6.6 % 14.1 % Three Months Ended April 29, 2012 and May 1, 2011 . Revenue Revenue was $924.9 million for our first quarter of fiscal year 2013 , compared to $962.0 million for our first quarter of fiscal year 2012 , which represents a decrease of approximately 3.9% . A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . GPU business revenue decreased approximately 9.1% to $579.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 , compared to $637.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 . GPU revenues decreased primarily due to a decrease in the volume of our high-end desktop GPU driven by a supply shortage of our new generation of 28 nanometer Kepler products, offset slightly by an increase of mainstream desktop GPU sales volume. Revenues from our media and communications processors, or MCPs, decreased as these chipsets approach their end of life. Memory sales also decreased as a result of lower sales of high-end products in desktop. Offsetting these decreases were increases in notebook revenues due to both volume and richer product mix driven by strong design wins based on Intel's Ivy Bridge platform. License revenue in connection with the License Agreement that we entered into with Intel in January 2011 also contributed to the revenue for our GPU business. PSB . PSB revenue increased approximately 5.4% to $212.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 , compared to $201.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 . This was mainly due to a richer product mix for our workstation and Tesla products and stronger enterprise spending. CPB. CPB revenue increased approximately 8.1% to $132.5 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 , compared to $122.6 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 . This was primarily due to higher sales of our embedded entertainment products that increased in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 when compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 driven by customer refreshes of entertainment systems. Offsetting this increase was a decrease in our Tegra 2 based products, ahead of the full ramp of our Tegra 3 products for smartphone and tablet devices. Concentration of Revenue Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and Other Americas accounted for 76% and 81% of total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. 27 Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, was approximately 21% in the aggregate of our total revenue from two customers for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 and approximately 11% of our total revenue from one customer for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 . Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license, service arrangements and stock-based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin can vary in any period depending on the mix of types of products sold. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell. Product mix is often difficult to estimate with accuracy. Therefore, if we experience product transition challenges, if we achieve significant revenue growth in our lower margin product lines, or if we are unable to earn as much revenue as we expect from higher margin product lines, our gross margin may be negatively impacted. Our overall gross margin was 50.1% and 50.4% for the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The decrease in gross margin is attributable to less favorable product mix primarily from our desktop GPU business. We expect our gross margin for the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 to improve when compared to first quarter of fiscal year 2013 . We intend to continue to work to improve our gross margin by, among other things, focusing on delivering cost effective product architectures and enhancing our business processes. A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . The gross margin of our GPU business decreased between the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 and first quarter of fiscal year 2012. GPU margins decreased primarily due to a decrease in the volume of our high-end desktop GPU driven by a supply shortage of our new generation of 28 nanometer Kepler products, offset slightly by an increase of mainstream desktop GPU sales volume. PSB . The gross margin of our PSB improved in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 when compared to first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Quadro and Tesla margins improved on account of a richer product mix, as well as higher sales volume for our Tesla products. CPB . The gross margin of our CPB decreased between the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 and first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Gross margin for our mobile products decreased primarily on account of a shift in product mix from tablet to smartphones sales. Offsetting this was improvement in embedded entertainment revenue due to stronger arcade game sales. 28 Operating Expenses Three Months Ended April 29, 2012 May 1, 2011 $ Change % Change ($ in millions) Research and development expenses $ 283.9 $ 231.5 $ 52.4 22.6 % Sales, general and administrative expenses 106.6 98.1 8.5 8.7 % Total operating expenses $ 390.5 $ 329.6 $ 60.9 18.5 % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 30.7 % 24.1 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 11.5 % 10.2 % Research and Development Research and development expenses were $283.9 million and $231.5 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively, an increase of $52.4 million , or 22.6% . Compensation and benefits increased by $26.3 million and stock-based compensation increased by $2.6 million, both of which were primarily related to the growth in headcount. Development cost increased by $6.5 million as a result of development ramp up to the launch of Kepler 28 nanometer technology. Depreciation and amortization increased by $2.6 million primarily due to the amortization of new additional hardware and licenses. Also contributing to the increase were other acquisition-related costs of $4.1 million for compensation charges related to the retention program we have established for employees from our acquisition of Icera in June 2011 and $2.3 million of amortization expense for intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Icera. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expenses were $106.6 million and $98.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively, an increase of $8.5 million , or 8.7% . Compensation and benefits increased by $6.9 million and stock-based compensation increased by $1.2 million, both of which were primarily related to growth in headcount. Also contributing to the increase were $0.6 million of amortization expense for intangible assets associated with our acquisition of Icera in June 2011. We expect operating expenses to increase in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 associated with personnel hires that we have made and a corporate donation to Stanford Hospital of $25.0 million. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income was $5.2 million and $5.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively, a decrease of $0.1 million, primarily due to lower yields on investments in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 when compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Other Expense Other expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other expense was $0.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 compared to $3.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 , a decrease of $2.8 million. The decrease was primarily driven by lower foreign currency losses in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 compared to first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense of $16.7 million and $21.3 million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes, or our effective tax rate, was 21.6% and 13.6% for the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate of 21.6% from 13.6% was primarily 29 related to the expiration of the U.S. federal research tax credit in December 31, 2011, which provided no tax benefit in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. Our effective tax rate on income before tax for the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 of 21.6% was lower than the United States federal statutory rate of 35.0% due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax rate. Our effective tax rate on income before tax for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 of 13.6% was lower than the United States federal statutory rate of 35.0% due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax and the benefit of the U.S. federal research tax credit. Further, our annual projected effective tax rate of 16.7% as of the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 differs from our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 of 13.6% due to favorable discrete events that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 primarily attributable to the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which we had not previously recognized related tax benefits. We expect our effective tax rate in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 to be relatively consistent from the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. Please refer to Note 4 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the components of our income tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 29, 2012 As of January 29, 2012 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 369.1 $ 667.9 Marketable securities 2,761.7 2,461.7 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 3,130.8 $ 3,129.6 Three Months Ended April 29, May 1, 2012 2011 (In millions) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (9.2 ) $ 172.2 Net cash used in investing activities $ (335.1 ) $ (252.5 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 45.5 $ 98.6 As of April 29, 2012 , we had $3.13 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $1.2 million from cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities as of January 29, 2012. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed on our behalf by several financial institutions which are required to follow our investment policy, which requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities Operating activities used cash of $9.2 million and provided cash of $172.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 was primarily due to a decrease in our net income and an increase in accounts receivable as a result of the increased shipments towards the latter half of the first quarter of fiscal year 2013. Investing activities Investing activities consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $335.1 million and $252.5 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The increase in cash used for investing activities was as a result of increase in net purchases, sales and maturities of our available for sale investments. 30 Financing activities Financing activities provided cash of $45.5 million and $98.6 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities decreased in the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 primarily due to a decrease of proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan and from the exercise of stock options during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 . Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of April 29, 2012 , we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other-than-temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of April 29, 2012 and January 29, 2012 , we had $3.13 billion , in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities and the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of April 29, 2012 , we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of April 29, 2012 , our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 51% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 29% of our total investment portfolio. Of the financial sector investments, 35% are guaranteed by the U.S. government. All of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of April 29, 2012 . Based on our quarterly impairment review, we concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and did not record any impairment during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 Net realized gains for the first quarter of fiscal years 2013 and 2012 , were not significant. As of April 29, 2012 , we had a net unrealized gain of $11.3 million , which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $11.9 million , offset by gross unrealized losses of $0.6 million . As of January 29, 2012 , we had a net unrealized gain of $11.5 million , which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $12.0 million , offset by $0.5 million of gross unrealized losses. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. One customer accounted for approximately 21% of our accounts receivable balance at April 29, 2012 . While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. 31 Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. We did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock during the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 . Through April 29, 2012 , we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion . As of April 29, 2012 , we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $1.24 billion through May 2013. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then-current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next-generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $105.0 million to $135.0 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2013. For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Contractual Obligations As of April 29, 2012 , we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling approximately $594.8 million . There were no other material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2012 . In addition, in connection with our completion of the acquisition of Icera on June 10, 2011, we have established a retention program in the aggregate amount of approximately $68.0 million to be paid out to Icera employees over a period of four years. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of April 29, 2012 , we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). 32 Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements.