ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, could, goal, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, project, predict, poten tial and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statem ents by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All references to NVIDIA, we, us, our or the Company mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. NVIDIA, GeForce, the NVIDIA logo, ION, Quadro, Tesla, Tegra, PhysX, NVIDIA 3D Vision, and CUDA, are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. 26 Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation helped awaken the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the graphics processing unit, or GPU, in 1999. Expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. We serve the entertainment and consumer market with our GeForce and ION graphics products, the professional design and visualization market with our Quadro graphics products, the high-performance computing market with our Tesla computing solutions products, and the mobile computing market with our Tegra system-on-a-chip products. We have three major operating segments: the GPU business, the Professional Solutions Business, or PSB, and the Consumer Products Business, or CPB. Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce and ION products that support desktop, memory products, notebook and netbook personal computers, or PCs including chipset products that were previously described as media and communications processor, or MCP. Our PSB is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support tablets and smartbooks, smartphones, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer el ectronics devices. Original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of their entertainment, business and professional solutions. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address is www.nvidia.com . The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10-Q. Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges GPU Business During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we announced and shipped our GeForce GTX 480 and 470 GPUs, the first GPUs based on our Fermi architecture. The GeForce GTX 480 and GTX 470 GPUs are designed to excel at tessellation, the defining feature of DirectX 11. The GeForce GTX 480/470 GPUs also provide a higher computational capability, which will allow game developers to increase the level of physics realism via our PhysX API. We also began shipments of the GeForce 320M chipset to Apple for incorporation into their latest 13-inch MacBook notebooks. The 320M delivers up to an 80% performance increase over the previous GeForce 9400M GPU. Our stereo 3D technology continued to gain acceptance in the quarter as we sold a record number of our NVIDIA 3D Vision kits . Professional Solutions Business Demand for our workstation products continues to recover, fueled by demand from enterprise customers and new growth markets like video editing. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we announced that a range of NVIDIA Quadro professional graphics solutions are certified by Adobe for Adobe Creative Suite 5 software, which provides real-time video editing and effects processing of Adobe Premiere Pro CS5. Tesla achieved record revenue during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 following the launch of Tesla products based on our new Fermi architecture. We are seeing adoption of Tesla systems in industries such as supercomputing, energy and finance. Consumer Products Business During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, the first phones using NVIDIAs Tegra processors shipped the KIN ONE and KIN TWO from Microsoft. We have multiple next-generation Tegra design wins in tablets, smartbooks and smartphones, with the first of these expected to ship during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. We have also announced that Volkswagen and Audi will use our next-generation Tegra starting in 2012. 27 Product Defect As of May 2, 2010, our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet included an accrued liability to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. During fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we recorded a warranty charge against cost of revenue of $360.4 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $75.3 million. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to seek access to our insurance coverage regarding reimbursement to us for some or all of the costs we have incurred and may incur in the future relating to the weak material set. However, there can be no assurance that we will recover any additional reimbursement. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors, or our Board, has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. Through May 2, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of May 2, 2010, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an additional amount of $1.24 billion through May 2013. Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on a operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we began reporting internally the results of our former MCP segment along with the results of our GPU segment to reflect the way we manage the GPU business. Comparative periods presented reflect this change. We report financial information for three operating segments to our CODM: the GPU business, which is comprised primarily of our GeForce and ION products that support desktop, notebook and netbook personal computers, or PCs and also includes memory products; the PSB, which is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products; and our CPB, which is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support tablets and smartbooks, smartpho nes, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. The All Other category includes non-recurring charges that we do not allocate to our other operating segments as these expenses are not included in the segment operating performance measures evaluated by our CODM. There were no non-recurring charges for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. Non-recurring charges related our cash tender offer to purchase certain employee stock options were $140.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the cash tender offer and Note 15 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further disclosure regarding segment information. 28 Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended May 2, 2010 April 26, 2009 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 54.4 71.4 Gross margin 45.6 28.6 Operating expenses: Research and development 21.8 45.4 Sales, general and administrative 9.1 17.9 Total operating expenses 30.9 63.3 Income (loss) from operations 14.7 (34.7) Interest and other income, net 0.3 0.9 Income (loss) before income tax expense 15.0 (33.8) Income tax expense (benefit) 1.3 (3.5) Net income (loss) 13.7 % (30.3) % First Quarter of Fiscal Years 2011 and 2010 Revenue Revenue was $1.00 billion for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $664.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, which represents an increase of 51%. We expect a seasonal decrease in revenue of 3% to 5% during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . GPU Business revenue increased by 43% to $780.9 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $547.4 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. This increase resulted from growth in our desktop GPU, notebook GPU, chipset and memory products driven by an increase in demand resulting from the economic recovery from recessionary conditions a year ago. According to the latest 2010 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research, the graphics market grew by 67% from a year ago. PSB . PSB revenue increased by 79% to $189.7 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $106.1 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. This increase was driven by growth in both our Quadro and Tesla brands. Unit shipments of our Quadro workstation products increased, fueled by demand from enterprise customers as the market recovered from the recessionary conditions of a year ago. Tesla achieved record revenue during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 following the launch of Tesla products based on our new Fermi architecture. CPB. CPB revenue increased by 192% to $31.2 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $10.7 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The overall increase in CPB revenue was driven by a combination of an increase in royalties from our game console product line and stronger shipments of our embedded entertainment products. Concentration of Revenue Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and other Americas accounted for 85% of total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and 82% of total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue aggregated approximately 28% of our total revenue from two customers for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and 22% of our total revenue from two customers for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. 29 Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license, service arrangements and stock-based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin can vary in any period depending on the mix of types of products sold. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell. Product mix is often difficult to estimate with accuracy. Therefore, if we experience product transition challenges, if we achieve significant revenue growth in our lower margin product lines, or if we are unable to earn as much revenue as we expect from higher margin product lines, our gross margin may be negatively impacted. Our overall gross margin was 45.6% and 28.6% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The improvement in gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 when compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 was driven primarily by improved yields of our 40nm products as well as other manufacturing cost reductions, and a more favorable product mix, including a higher ratio of lower cost 40nm products sold and increased sales of higher margin GPU and chipset products. In addition, we recorded a stock option purchase charge of $11.4 million to cost of revenue when we completed a tender offer to purchase outstanding stock options during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Our strategy for improving our gross margin relies upon delivering competitive product offerings that allow us to maintain our market leadership position and expand our addressable markets, lowering our product costs by introducing product architectures that take advantage of smaller process geometries and improving our product mix. We expect gross margin to be in the range of 46% to 47% during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . The gross margin of our GPU business increased during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. This increase was primarily due to the ASP growth in our desktop GPU and chipset products as result of recovery from the recessionary conditions in the economy. In addition, the launch of our Fermi-based GeForce GTX 470/480 GPUs and the launch of our GeForce GT 320M chipset and strong notebook demand further improved gross margins in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. PSB . The gross margin of our PSB was relatively flat during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. CPB . The gross margin of our CPB increased for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. This increase was primarily due to the negative impact of inventory reserves taken during the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. In addition, margin improvement in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was driven by an increase in royalty revenue from our game console product line. 30 Operating Expenses Three Months Ended May 2, 2010 April 26, 2009 $ Change % Change (In millions) Research and development expenses $ 218.1 $ 301.8 $ (83.7 ) (28) % Sales, general and administrative expenses 90.9 118.9 (28.0 ) (24) % Total operating expenses $ 309.0 $ 420.7 $ (111.7 ) (27) % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 21.8 % 45.4 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 9.1 % 17.9 % Research and Development Research and development expenses were $218.1 million and $301.8 million during the first quarters of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $83.7 million, or 28%. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, research and development expenses included stock-based compensation of $90.5 million related to the purchase of certain outstanding options that were tendered in March 2009. Compensation and benefits increased by $5.7 million primarily related to growth in headcount in departments related to research and development functions. Development expenses increased by $7.5 million primarily due to increased expenses related to engineering consumption, prototype materials, testing devices, and internal board requests. These increases were offset by a decrease of $2.3 million in depreciati on and amortization due to fully depreciated assets and a decrease of $6.7 million in ongoing stock-based compensation expense resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer. In order to remain competitive, we anticipate that we will continue to devote substantial resources to research and development. Research and development expenses are likely to fluctuate from time to time to the extent we make periodic incremental investments in research and development and these investments may be independent of our level of revenue. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expenses were $90.9 million and $118.9 million during the first quarters of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $28.0 million, or 24%. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, sales, general and administrative expenses included stock-based compensation of $38.3 million related to the purchase of certain outstanding options that were tendered in March 2009. Compensation and benefits increased by $9.1 million primarily due to headcount growth in departments related to sales, general, and administrative functions and incentive bonus expenses. Additionally, as a result of a partial resumption of spending in discretionary areas, there were increases in expenses related to computer software and equipment of $2.1 million, marketing of $1.7 million, and trav el and entertainment of $1.4 million. These increases were offset by a decrease of $1.5 million in depreciation and amortization due to fully depreciated assets and a decrease of $1.9 million in ongoing stock-based compensation expense resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer. We expect operating expenses to be flat in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. Interest Income and Interest Expense Interest income, net of interest expense consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income decreased to $4.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, from $5.3 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, primarily due to the result of lower interest rates earned on our investments in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 when compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Other Income (Expense), net Other income and expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other (expense), net of other income was ($1.4) million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 and $0.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The fluctuation of $2.3 million was primarily driven by realized gains from investments in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. 31 Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $13.1 million and ($23.5) million for the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Income tax expense (benefit) as a percentage of income before taxes, or our effective tax rate, was 8.7% and (10.5%) for the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Our effective tax rate on income before tax for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was lower than the United States federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax rate. Further, our annual projected effective tax rate as of the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 of 15.4% differs from our effective tax rate for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 of 8.7% due to favorable discrete events in the quarter primarily attributable to the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain non-United States jurisdictions for which we had not previously recognized related tax benefits. The United States federal research tax credit expired on December 31, 2009. We will recognize the tax benefit of the United S tates federal research tax credit if and when reenacted into law. The expected tax benefit derived from our loss before tax for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 at the United States federal statutory tax rate of 35% differs from our actual effective tax rate of (10.5%) due primarily to permanent tax differences related to stock-based compensation, including with respect to our stock option purchase completed in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, and losses recognized in tax jurisdictions where no tax benefit has been recognized, partially offset by the tax benefit of the United States federal research tax credit. Please refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the components of our income tax expense. 32 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of May 2, 2010 As of January 31, 2010 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 447.3 $ 447.2 Marketable securities 1,317.6 1,281.0 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 1,764.9 $ 1,728.2 Three Months Ended May 2, April 26, 2010 2009 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (5.4 ) $ 142.1 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ (57.3 ) $ (8.9 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ 62.8 $ (38.6 ) As of May 2, 2010, we had $1.76 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $36.7 million from $1.73 billion at the end of fiscal year 2010. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating Activities Operating activities used cash of $5.4 million and provided cash of $142.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to additional working capital as a result of significant increases in accounts receivables driven by less sales linearity and increases in inventories due to builds for the GPU business. This was offset by cash earnings comprised of an increase in net income after adding back non-cash depreciation and stock based compensation. Investing Activities Investing activities have consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities, acquisitions of businesses and purchases of property and equipment, which include the purchase of property, leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $57.3 million and $8.9 million during the first quarters of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. The increase in cash used in investing activities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was driven by increases in purchase of marketable securities and decreases in proceeds received from sales and maturities of securities. We expect to spend approximately $100 million to $150 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2011, primarily for leasehold improvements, software licenses, emulation equipment, computers and engineering workstations. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. Financing Activities Financing activities provided cash of $62.8 million and used cash of $38.6 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to an increase of proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. In addition, cash provided by financing activities during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was greater as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, due to a cash payment made towards purchase of certain outstanding options that were tendered in March 2009. 33 Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, asset-backed securities, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of May 2, 2010, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other-than-temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of May 2, 2010 and January 31, 2010, we had $1.76 billion and $1.73 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities and the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of May 2, 2010, we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of May 2, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 64% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 23% of our total investment portfol io. All of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of May 2, 2010. Based on our quarterly impairment review, we concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and did not record any impairment during three months ended May 2, 2010. However, during fiscal year 2009, we recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $5.6 million related to our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund. Please refer to Note 7 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Net realized gains, excluding any impairment charges, were $0.3 million and $0.8 million for the first quarters of fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of May 2, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $11.1 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $11.4 million, offset by $0.3 million of gross unrealized losses. As of January 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $12.6 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $12.7 million, offset by $0.1 million of gross unrealized losses. As of May 2, 2010, we held a money market investment in the International Reserve Fund, which was valued at $13.0 million, net of $5.6 million of other than temporary impairment charges that we recorded during fiscal year 2009. We reclassified this amount out of cash and cash equivalents in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet due to the halting of redemption requests in September 2008 by the International Reserve Fund. The $13.0 million value of our holdings in the International Reserve Fund as of May 2, 2010 reflects an initial investment of $130.0 million, reduced by $111.4 million that we received from the International Reserve Fund during the fiscal year 2010 and the $5.6 million other than temporary impairment charge we recorded against the value of this investment during fiscal year 2009. The $111.4 million we received was our portion of a payout of approximately 85.6% of the total assets of the International Reserve Fund. All of the underlying securities held by the International Reserve Fund had matured by the end of fiscal year 2010. We expect to ultimately receive the proceeds from our remaining investment in the International Reserve Fund, excluding some or all of the $5.6 million impairment charges. However, redemptions from the International Reserve Fund are currently subject to pending litigation, which could cause further delay in receipt of our funds. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. Two customers accounted for approximately 27% of our accounts receivable balance at May 2, 2010. While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for est imated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. 34 Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structure d share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. We did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock during the three months ended May 2, 2010. Through May 2, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of May 2, 2010, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an additional amount of $1.24 billion through May 2013. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements. We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then-current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated fr om operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next-generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $100.0 million to $150.0 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2011, primarily for property development, leasehold improvements, software licenses, emulation equipment, computers and engineering workstations. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 35 3dfx Asset Purchase On December 15, 2000, NVIDIA Corporation and one of our indirect subsidiaries entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement, or APA, which closed on April 18, 2001, to purchase certain graphics chip assets from 3dfx. Under the terms of the APA, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000. The APA also provided, subject to the other provisions thereof, that if 3dfx properly certified that all its debts and other liabilities had been provided for, then we would have been obligated to pay 3dfx one million shares, which due to subsequent stock splits now totals six million shares, of NVIDIA common stock. If 3dfx could not make such a certification, but instead properly certified that its debts and liabilities could be satisfi ed for less than $25.0 million, then 3dfx could have elected to receive a cash payment equal to the amount of such debts and liabilities and a reduced number of shares of our common stock, with such reduction calculated by dividing the cash payment by $25.00 per share. If 3dfx could not certify that all of its debts and liabilities had been provided for, or could not be satisfied, for less than $25.0 million, we would not be obligated under the agreement to pay any additional consideration for the assets. In October 2002, 3dfx filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California. In March 2003, we were served with a complaint filed by the Trustee appointed by the Bankruptcy Court which sought, among other things, payments from us as additional purchase price related to our purchase of certain assets of 3dfx. In early November 2005, NVIDIA and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, or the Creditors Committee, agreed to a Plan of Liquidation of 3dfx, which included a conditional settlement of the Trustees claims against us. This conditional settlement was subject to a confirmation process through a vote of creditors and the review and approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The conditional settlement called for a payment by NVIDIA of approximately $ 30.6 million to the 3dfx estate. Under the settlement, $5.6 million related to various administrative expenses and Trustee fees, and $25.0 million related to the satisfaction of debts and liabilities owed to the general unsecured creditors of 3dfx. Accordingly, during the three month period ended October 30, 2005, we recorded $5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx. The Trustee advised that he intended to object to the settlement. The conditional settlement reached in November 2005 never progressed through the confirmation process and the Trustees case still remains pending appeal. As such, we have not reversed the accrual of $30.6 million - $5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx that we recorded during the three months ended October 30, 2005, pending resolution of the appeal of the Trustees case. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation. Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, includ ing for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. As of May 2, 2010, our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet included an accrued liability to cover the remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. During fiscal years 2010 and 2009, we recorded a warranty charge against cost of revenue of $360.4 million for related estimated costs, offset by reimbursements from insurance carriers of $75.3 million. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. While we have not been able to determine with certainty a root cause for these failures, testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in the ir notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. In September, October and November 2008, several putative class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation. 36 Rambus License In November 2008, Rambus filed a complaint alleging patent infringement against NVIDIA and other respondents with the U.S. International Trade Commission, or ITC. The complaint seeks an exclusion order barring the importation of products that allegedly infringe the Rambus patents. The ITC has instituted an investigation and a hearing was held in October 2009. The Administrative Law Judge issued an Initial Determination in January 2010, which found the asserted claims of two patents in one patent family infringed but invalid, and the asserted claims of three patents in a separate patent family, valid, infringed and enforceable. This decision will be reviewed by the ITC. The target date by which the ITC will issue its Final Determination is May 24, 2010. Rambus has also been subject to an investigation in the European Union. NVIDIA was not a party to that investigation. However, as a result of Rambus commitments to resolve that investigation, for a period of five years from the date of the resolution, Rambus must now provide a license to memory controller manufacturers, sellers and or companies that integrate memory controllers into other products. The license terms are set forth in a license made available on Rambus' website, or the Required Rambus License. NVIDIA can choose to accept those license terms at any time. In the event that the Final Determination issued by the ITC results in an exclusion order barring the importation of certain of our products into the U.S., we may choose to accept the Required Rambus License terms. If we do choose to accept the Required Rambus License terms, we will be obligated to pay a prospective royalty to Rambus for at least one year. The Required Rambus License has a stated royalty rate of up to 2% of net sales of certain products, with a cap of $0.40 per unit. As a result, we believe that if we do choose to accept the Required Rambus License terms, the impact on our ongoing overall gross margin, depending on product mix, would range from insignificant to 0.9% of a gross margin point. Contractual Obligations At May 2, 2010, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling approximately $648 million. There were no other material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of May 2, 2010, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 37