ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, could, goal, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, project, 0;predict, potential and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qual ify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All references to NVIDIA, we, us, our or the Company mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, CUDA, GeForce, ION, NVIDIA 3D Vision, PhysX, Quadro, Tegra, and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010 and Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors, of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation invented the graphics processing unit, or GPU, in 1999. Since then, it has strived to set new standards in visual computing with interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and portable media players to notebooks and workstations. Expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. We serve the entertainment and consumer market with our GeForce and ION graphics products, the professional design and visualization market with our Quadro graphics products, the high-performance computing market with our Tesla computing solutions products, and the mobile computing market with our Tegra system-on-a-chip products. We have three major operating segments: the GPU business, the Profe ssional Solutions Business, or PSB, and the Consumer Products Business, or CPB. Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce and ION products that support desktop, memory products, notebook and netbook personal computers, or PCs, including chipset products that were previously described as media and communications processor, or MCP. Our PSB is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support tablets and smartbooks, smartphones, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, automotive navigation, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics de vices. Original equipment manufacturers, original design manufacturers, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of their entertainment, business and professional solutions. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address is www.nvidia.com . The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10-Q. 27 Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges GPU Business During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we launched 12 new GPU products, including the GeForce GTS 450 and GeForce GT 430. The GTS 450 is designed to deliver the most advanced GPU and gaming experience for budget conscious gamers. The GT 430 is designed for photo and video editing, Blu-ray 3D, and the next-generation of GPU-accelerated Web browsers and Web content for mainstream PC users. We also launched a complete range of notebook GPUs in the GeForce 400M family with Optimus technology, a proprietary NVIDIA product feature designed for mobile applications to optimize power usage and extend battery life. Lenovo and Dell have already shipped their new product lines based on GeForce 400M with Optimus. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we launched our GeForce GTX 460. The GTX 460 uses our second-generation Fermi architecture and delivers a DirectX 11 gaming experience at a balance of price, performance and power. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we announced and shipped our GeForce GTX 480 and 470 GPUs, the first GPUs based on our Fermi architecture. The GeForce GTX 480 and GTX 470 GPUs are designed to excel at tessellation, the defining feature of DirectX 11. The GeForce GTX 480/470 GPUs also provide a higher computational capability, which is designed to allow game developers to increase the level of physics realism via our PhysX API. We also began shipments of the GeForce 320M chipset to Apple for incorporation into their latest 13-inch MacBook notebooks. The 320M delivers up to an 80% performance increase over the previous GeForce 9400M GPU. Our stereo 3D technology continued to gain acceptance in the quarter as we sold a record number of our NVIDIA 3D Vision ki ts. Professional Solutions Business During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, our Quadro business further benefitted from the strength of our Fermi architecture with the launch of the Quadro 2000 midrange GPU and the Quadro 600 entry-level GPU. These professional graphics solutions put the computational and visualization benefits of our Fermi architecture within reach of all engineers, designers and animators, with the Quadro 2000 delivering significantly higher performance across leading CAD applications, such as SolidWorks and Autodesk 3ds Max, and the Quadro 600 positioned at a competitive price/performance point. Our Tesla supercomputing business continues to make progress with key project wins not only in our core market segments, but also with traction in a number of new focus areas. A notable achievement this quarter was the unveiling of the Tianhe-1A supercomputer at HPC 2010 China. The system uses more than 7,000 Tesla M2050 GPUs, is three-times more energy efficient than an equivalent CPU-only system and takes up half as much floor space. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, demand for our workstation products continued to recover, fueled by demand from enterprise customers and new growth markets like video editing. During SIGRRAPH 2010, we introduced new Quadro GPU products based on our Fermi architecture and 3D Vision Pro, a new 3D stereoscopic solution that empowers engineers, designers, architects and computational chemists who work with complex 3D designs to experience a rich, reliable 3D viewing for large scale visualization environments. The new Quadro GPUs deliver performance that is up to five times faster for 3D applications and up to eight times faster for computational simulation than our previous Quadro generation products. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, our Tesla high performance computing products achieved another record revenue quarter, and continues to make progress in our targeted vertical markets including supercomputing, energy and finance. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we announced that a range of NVIDIA Quadro professional graphics solutions are certified by Adobe for Adobe Creative Suite 5 software, which provides real-time video editing and effects processing of Adobe Premiere Pro CS5. Tesla achieved record revenue during the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 following the launch of Tesla products based on our new Fermi architecture. Consumer Products Business During the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we continued to see promising signs in our Tegra business, helped by Androids adoption. Gartner reported in November 2010 that Android was now the worlds second-most popular smart phone operating system, ahead of the iPhone and Blackberry operating systems. We expect Tegra shipment volumes to begin ramping up late in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, fueled by the production release of Android-based smartphone and tablet products. We have multiple next-generation Tegra design wins in both tablets and smartphones. We have also announced that Volkswagen and Audi will use our next-generation Tegra starting in 2012. 28 Product Defect During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and another related estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. In September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of these Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation and the settlement. Rambus License In November 2008, Rambus filed a complaint alleging patent infringement against NVIDIA and other respondents with the U.S. International Trade Commission, or ITC. The complaint seeks an exclusion order barring the importation of products that allegedly infringe the Rambus patents. The ITC has instituted an investigation and a hearing was held in October 2009. The Administrative Law Judge issued an Initial Determination in January 2010, which found the asserted claims of two patents in one patent family infringed but invalid, and the asserted claims of three patents in a separate patent family, valid, infringed and enforceable. The ITC issued a Final Decision on July 26, 2010. In its Final Decision, the ITC found that NVIDIA infringed three related patents and issued a limited exclusion order prohibiting import of certain NVIDIA products. NVIDIA is appealing the ruling. Rambus has also been subject to an investigation in the European Union. NVIDIA was not a party to that investigation. However, as a result of Rambus commitments to resolve that investigation, for a period of five years from the date of the resolution, Rambus must now provide a license to memory controller manufacturers, sellers, and/or companies that integrate memory controllers into other products. The license terms are set forth in a license made available on Rambus' website, or the Required Rambus License. On August 12, 2010, we entered into the Required Rambus License. Pursuant to the agreement, Rambus charges a royalty of (i) one percent of the net sales price per unit for certain memory controllers and (ii) two percent of the net sales price per unit for certain other memory controllers, provided that the maximum average net sales price per unit for these royalty bearing products shall be deemed not to exceed a maximum of $20. As a result, we believe that the impact on our ongoing overall gross margin, depending on the product mix, will be approximately one gross margin point. The agreement has a term until December 9, 2014. However, NVIDIA may terminate the agreement on or after August 12, 2011 with 30 days prior written notice to Rambus. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors, or our Board, has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. During the three and nine months ended October 31, 2010, we did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock. Through October 31, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of October 31, 2010, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $1.24 billion through May 2013. Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on a operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. 29 During the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, we began reporting internally the results of our former MCP segment along with the results of our GPU segment to reflect the way we manage the GPU business. Comparative periods presented reflect this change. We report financial information for three operating segments to our CODM: the GPU business, which is comprised primarily of our GeForce and ION products that support desktop, notebook and netbook PCs and also includes memory products; the PSB, which is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products; and our CPB, which is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support tablets and smartbooks, smartphones, PMPs, interne t television, automotive navigation, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. The All Other category includes non-recurring charges that we do not allocate to our other operating segments as these expenses are not included in the segment operating performance measures evaluated by our CODM. There were no non-recurring charges for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011. Non-recurring charges related to our cash tender offer to purchase certain employee stock options were $140.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. Please refer to Note 2 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the cash tender offer and Note 15 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further disclosure regarding segment information. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October 31, 2010 October 25, 2009 October 31, 2010 October 25, 2009 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 53.5 56.6 63.0 68.5 Gross profit 46.5 43.4 37.0 31.5 Operating expenses Research and development 24.3 21.9 23.8 29.5 Sales, general and administrative 9.9 9.5 10.3 11.9 Total operating expenses 34.2 31.4 34.1 41.4 Income (loss) from operations 12.3 12.0 2.9 (9.9 ) Interest and other income, net 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.5 Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 12.3 12.3 3.2 (9.4 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 2.2 0.3 0.1 (1.0 ) Net Income (loss) 10.1 12.0 % 3.1 (8.4 )% Three and nine months ended October 31, 2010 and October 25, 2009 Revenue Revenue was $843.9 million for our third quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $903.2 million for our third quarter of fiscal year 2010, which represents a decrease of approximately 6.6%. Revenue was $2.66 billion for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 and $2.34 billion for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, which represented an increase of 13.4%. We expect revenue to increase slightly during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . GPU Business revenue decreased by approximately 18.9% to $581.9 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $717.7 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. The decline in sales of mainstream GPU and MCP products was primarily due to a drop in unit shipments driven by weakness in our end customer markets as well as market share losses according to the latest 2010 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research. 30 GPU Business revenue increased slightly by 1.7% to $1.91 billion for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 compared to $1.88 billion for the first the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily the result of increased sales of our notebook GPU products offset by decreased sales of our desktop GPU and MCP products. The growth in the sales of notebook GPU products was driven by a continuing shift in the market demand towards notebook PCs from desktop PCs. Offsetting this growth was a decrease in sales of our MCP products due to a drop in unit shipments driven by weakness in our end customer markets. PSB . PSB revenue increased by approximately 62.1% to $210.1 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $129.6 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. PSB revenue increased by 74.5% to $614.9 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to $352.4 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. These increases were driven by growth in both our Quadro and Tesla brands. Unit shipments of our Quadro workstation products increased, fueled by demand from enterprise customers as the market recovered from the previous recessionary conditions. Tesla achieved record revenue during the second quarter and first half of fiscal year 2011, driven by the launch of products containing our new Fermi architecture. CPB. CPB revenue decreased by 7.1% to $51.9 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, compared to $55.9 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. This decrease in CPB revenue was primarily due to a sales decline in our products for the entertainment market. Offsetting this decline was an increase in Mobile revenue driven by increased unit shipments of Tegra. CPB revenue increased by approximately 16.2% to $128.9 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to $110.9 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. This increase in CPB revenue was primarily driven by increased unit shipments of our Tegra products. Concentration of Revenue Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and other Americas accounted for 81% and 85% of total revenue for the third quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, and 83% and 84% for the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010 respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue aggregated approximately 12% of our total revenue from one customer for the third quarter and 13% of our total revenue from one customer for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011. Revenue from significant customers aggregated approximately 14% and 12% of our total revenue from one customer for the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2010, respectively. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license, service arrangements and stock-based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin can vary in any period depending on the mix of types of products sold. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell. Product mix is often difficult to estimate with accuracy. Therefore, if we experience product transition challenges, if we achieve significant revenue growth in our lower margin product lines, or if we are unable to earn as much revenue as we expect from higher margin product lines, our gross margin may be negatively impacted. Our overall gross margin was 46.5% and 43.4% for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively and 37.0% and 31.5% for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively. The improvement in gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 when compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 was attributable to a more favorable product mix and the continuing positive impact of improved yields of our 40nm products as well as other manufacturing cost reductions. Additionally, during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011, we sold products that had been previously reserved and also recorded new inventory reserves on other components. While the net impact to the quarter was immaterial, each of these offsetting items represented an impact on gross margin of approximat ely 3%. Impact of sales of items previously reserved was insignificant for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. 31 We intend to focus on improving our gross margin by delivering cost effective product architectures, enhancing business processes and delivering profitable growth. We expect gross margin to stay flat during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . The gross margin of our GPU Business increased slightly during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily due to positive contribution from products based on our Fermi architecture. Margins also improved as a result of favorable product mix, better yields of our 40nm products as well as other manufacturing cost reductions. Gross margin was flat during the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. Both fiscal years included the impact of an additional charge related to weak die/packaging material set used in certain versions of previous generation MCP and GPU products, net of insurance rei mbursements. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded a net charge against cost of revenue of $181.2 million that includes anticipated customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and associated costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set as well as additional remediation costs and the estimated costs of a pending settlement of a class action lawsuit. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 we had recorded a net charge of $120.0 million to cost of revenue for this same matter. Additionally, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, unexpected PC market weakness resulted in excess inventory. As a consequence, we recorded related charges for inventory reserves and the gross margin of our GPU Business was negatively impacted by these charges. PSB . The gross margin of our PSB increased during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 as well as during the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily due to the positive contribution of new products that we launched during fiscal year 2011 containing our new Fermi architecture. Lower gross margin for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 and nine months ended fiscal year 2010 was primarily due to decline in ASPs caused by pricing pressure due to the slow recovery of corporate spending following the economic recession. CPB . The gross margin of our CPB increased during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the third quarter fiscal year 2010 as well as during the during the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. The increase was primarily driven by increased unit shipments of higher margin Tegra products and royalties from game console-related products in the comparative period. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended Nine Months Ended October31, 2010 October 25, 2009 $ Change % Change October 31, 2010 October 25, 2009 $ Change % Change (in millions) (in millions) Research and development expenses $ 204.5 $ 197.9 $ 6.6 3.3 % $ 633.3 $ 692.6 $ (59.3 ) 8.6 % Sales, general and administrative expenses 83.8 86.0 (2.2 ) 2.6 % 273.5 278.8 (5.3 ) 1.9 % Total operating expenses $ 288.3 $ 283.9 $ 4.4 1.5 % $ 906.8 $ 971.4 $ (64.6 ) 6.7 % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 24.3 % 21.9 % 23.8 % 29.5 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 9.9 % 9.5 % 10.3 % 11.9 % Research and Development Research and development expenses were $204.5 million and $197.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 and 2010, respectively, an increase of $6.6 million, or 3.3%. Compensation and benefits increased by $6.7 million and stock based compensation increased by $1.3 million, primarily related to growth in headcount. Development spending also increased $1.4 million. These increases were offset by a decrease of $2.8 million in depreciation and amortization associated with fully depreciated assets. Research and development expenses were $633.3 million and $692.6 million in the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $59.3 million, or 8.6%. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, research and development expenses included stock-based compensation of $90.5 million related to the purchase of certain outstanding options that were tendered in March 2009. In addition, ongoing stock-based compensation expense decreased in the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 by $4.1 million resulting from the cancellation of stock options pursuant to the tender offer in March 2009 and depreciation and amortization decreased by $7.6 million as a result of fully depreciated assets. These decreases were offset by increases in compensation and benefits by $20.0 million primarily related to growth in headcount and increases in development spending by $12.7 million. 32 Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expenses were $83.8 million and $86.0 million during the third quarters of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $2.2 million, or 2.6%. This decrease was primarily attributable to $4.9 million decrease in outside professional fees incurred in the prior year due to certain litigation and other matters and $3.8 million decrease in other expenses primarily due to renegotiated rents for our main campus and settlement proceeds received in third quarter of fiscal year 2011. This decrease was offset by a $6.4 million increase in compensation and benefits by due to headcount growth in departments related to sales, general, and administrative functions. Sales, general and administrative expenses were $273.5 million and $278.8 million for the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $5.3 million, or 1.9%. The decrease was primarily attributable to $5.4 million decrease in outside professional fees and $3.0 million decrease in depreciation and amortization due to fully depreciated assets. Additionally, the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, sales, general and administrative expenses included stock-based compensation of $38.3 million related to the purchase of certain outstanding options that were tendered in March 2009. These decreases were offset by increases in compensation and benefits of $24.0 million primarily due to headcount growth in departments related to sales, general, and administrative functions, and an increase in marketing expense of $4.9 million. Additionally, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded a charge for estimated costs of implementing a settlement with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit and another related estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of the settlement in principle, another related estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expenses. We expect operating expenses to be approximately $300 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income was $4.2 million and $5.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $1.2 million. Interest income was $14.6 million and $17.3 million for the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively, a decrease of $2.7 million. These decreases were primarily due to lower interest rates in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2011 when compared to the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2010. Other Income (Expense), net Other income and expense primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other (expense), net of other income was ($4.4) million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 compared to ($3.1) million of other (expense), net of other income in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. The increase of $1.3 million was primarily driven by an increase in foreign currency losses in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $18.7 million and $3.8 million for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2010, respectively, and $2.6 million and $(22.7) million for the three and nine months ended October 25, 2009, respectively. Income tax expense (benefit) as a percentage of income (loss) before taxes, or our effective tax rate, was 18.1% and 4.4% for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2010, respectively, and 2.4% and 10.2% for the three and nine months ended October 25, 2009, respectively. Our effective tax rate on income before tax for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 of 4.4% was lower than the United States federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax rate and favorable discrete events that occurred in the nine months of fiscal year 2011 primarily attributable to the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which we had not previously recognized related tax benefits. The U.S. federal research tax credit expired on December 31, 2009. We will recognize the tax benefit of the U.S. federal research tax credit if and when reenacted into law. The expected tax benefit derived from our loss before tax for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 at the United States federal statutory tax rate of 35% differs from our actual effective tax rate of 10.2% due primarily to permanent tax differences related to stock-based compensation and losses recognized in tax jurisdictions where no tax benefit has been recognized, partially offset by the U.S. tax benefit of the federal research tax credit. Our actual effective tax rate was also impacted by discrete events in the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, primarily related to our stock option purchase completed in March 2009 and the favorable impact from the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions. Please refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the components of our income tax expense. 33 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of October 31, 2010 As of January 31, 2010 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 451.2 $ 447.2 Marketable securities 1,536.0 1,281.0 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 1,987.2 $ 1,728.2 Nine Months Ended October 31, October 25, 2010 2009 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 241.1 $ 418.6 Net cash used in investing activities $ (340.4 ) $ (235.6 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 103.3 $ 13.8 As of October 31, 2010, we had $1.99 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $259.0 million from $1.73 billion at the end of fiscal year 2010. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities Operating activities provided cash of $241.1 million and $418.6 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to increases in working capital as a result of an increase in inventories for the GPU business and decreases in accounts payable due to the timing of payment of vendor invoices. A decrease in non-cash items for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 when compared to the first nine months of fiscal year 2010 comprised primarily of depreciation and stock based compensation expense, contributed to the decrease in operating cash flows as well. Investing activities Investing activities consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $340.4 million and $235.6 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. We expect to spend approximately $50 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2011, primarily for software licenses. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. Financing activities Financing activities provided cash of $103.3 million and $13.8 million during the first nine months of fiscal years 2011 and 2010, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 was primarily due to an increase of proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans during the first nine months of fiscal year 2011. During the first nine months of fiscal year 2010, $78.1 million was paid to purchase stock options tendered in March 2009, offset by cash proceeds of $47.1 million from common stock issued under our employee stock plans. Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of October 31, 2010, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. 34 All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold a re classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other-than-temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of October 31, 2010 and January 31, 2010, we had $1.99 billion and $1.73 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities and the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of October 31, 2010, we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of October 31, 2010, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 60% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 32% of our total investment portfolio. 160; All of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of October 31, 2010. Based on our quarterly impairment review, we concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and did not record any impairment during three months ended October 31, 2010. However, during fiscal year 2009, we recorded an other than temporary impairment charge of $5.6 million related to our investment in the money market funds held by the Reserve International Liquidity Fund, Ltd., or International Reserve Fund. Please refer to Note 7 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. Net realized gains, for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2010 were $0.3 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Net realized gains, excluding any impairment charges, for the three and nine months ended October 25, 2009 were $0.5 million and $1.5 million, respectively. As of October 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $13.0 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $13.0 million, offset by gross unrealized losses that were insignificant. As of January 31, 2010, we had a net unrealized gain of $12.6 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $12.7 million, offset by $0.1 million of gross unrealized losses. As of October 31, 2010, we held a money market investment in the International Reserve Fund, which was valued at $13.0 million, after a $5.6 million other than temporary impairment charge that we recorded during fiscal year 2009. We reclassified this amount out of cash and cash equivalents in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet due to the halting of redemption requests in September 2008 by the International Reserve Fund. The $13.0 million value of our holdings in the International Reserve Fund as of October 31, 2010 reflects an initial investment of $130.0 million, reduced by $111.4 million that we received from the International Reserve Fund during the fiscal year 2010 and the $5.6 million other than temporary impairment charge we recorded against the value of this investment during fiscal year 2009. The $111.4 millio n we received was our portion of a payout of approximately 85.6% of the total assets of the International Reserve Fund. All of the underlying securities held by the International Reserve Fund had matured by the end of fiscal year 2010. We expect to ultimately receive the proceeds from our remaining investment in the International Reserve Fund, excluding some or all of the $5.6 million impairment charges. However, redemptions from the International Reserve Fund are currently subject to pending litigation, which could cause further delay in receipt of our funds. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. Three customers accounted for approximately 34% of our accounts receivable balance at October 31, 2010. While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. 35 Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transa ctions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. We did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock during the three and nine months ended October 31, 2010. Through October 31, 2010, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of October 31, 2010, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $1.24 billion through May 2013. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then-current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generat ed from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next-generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $50 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2011, primarily for software licenses. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. 3dfx Asset Purchase On December 15, 2000, NVIDIA Corporation and one of our indirect subsidiaries entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement, or APA, which closed on April 18, 2001, to purchase certain graphics chip assets from 3dfx. Under the terms of the APA, the cash consideration due at the closing was $70.0 million, less $15.0 million that was loaned to 3dfx pursuant to a Credit Agreement dated December 15, 2000. The APA also provided, subject to the other provisions thereof, that if 3dfx properly certified that all its debts and other liabilities had been provided for, then we would have been obligated to pay 3dfx one million shares, which due to subsequent stock splits now totals six million shares, of NVIDIA common stock. If 3dfx could not make such a certification, but instead properly certified that its debts and liabilities could be sa tisfied for less than $25.0 million, then 3dfx could have elected to receive a cash payment equal to the amount of such debts and liabilities and a reduced number of shares of our common stock, with such reduction calculated by dividing the cash payment by $25.00 per share. If 3dfx could not certify that all of its debts and liabilities had been provided for, or could not be satisfied, for less than $25.0 million, we would not be obligated under the agreement to pay any additional consideration for the assets. In October 2002, 3dfx filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Northern District of California. In March 2003, we were served with a complaint filed by the Trustee appointed by the Bankruptcy Court which sought, among other things, payments from us as additional purchase price related to our purchase of certain assets of 3dfx. In early November 2005, NVIDIA and the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, or the Creditors Committee, agreed to a Plan of Liquidation of 3dfx, which included a conditional settlement of the Trustees claims against us. This conditional settlement was subject to a confirmation process through a vote of creditors and the review and approval of the Bankruptcy Court. The conditional settlement called for a payment by NVIDIA of approximat ely $30.6 million to the 3dfx estate. Under the settlement, $5.6 million related to various administrative expenses and Trustee fees, and $25.0 million related to the satisfaction of debts and liabilities owed to the general unsecured creditors of 3dfx. Accordingly, during the three month period ended October 30, 2005, we recorded $5.6 million as a charge to settlement costs and $25.0 million as additional purchase price for 3dfx. The Trustee advised that he intended to object to the settlement. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation. 36 Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, includi ng for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and the other estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other related estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. Testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors for these failures. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our custom ers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. In September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of these Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation and the settlement. 37 Contractual Obligations At October 31, 2010, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling approximately $448.7 million. There were no other material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, other than the lease amendments on August 18, 2010, for four of our primary headquarters buildings in Santa Clara, California. The amended leases (i) extend the term of each building lease by seven years, (ii) reduce the base monthly rent payable by NVIDIA, and (iii) provide for the return of security deposits to NVIDIA. The lease amendments take effect in fiscal year 2013. As a result of these amendments our related contractual obligations increased by $10.6 million for fiscal year 2013, $11.6 m illion for fiscal year 2014, $11.9 million for fiscal year 2015 and $52.3 million for fiscal years 2016 and thereafter. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 31, 2010, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new accounting pronouncements. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements. 38