ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the safe harbor created by those sections. Forward-looking statements are based on our managements beliefs and assumptions and on information currently available to our management. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, could, goal, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, project, predict, potential and similar expressions intended to identify forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause our actual results, performance, time frames or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, time frames or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss many of these risks, uncertainties and other factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q in greater detail under the heading Risk Factors. Given these risks, uncertainties and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, these forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date of this filing. You should read this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We hereby qualify our forward-looking statements by these cautionary statements. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. All references to NVIDIA, we, us, our or the Company mean NVIDIA Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, CUDA, GeForce, Quadro, Tegra, and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with Item 6. Selected Financial Data of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011 and Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto, as well as other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, before deciding to purchase, hold or sell shares of our common stock. Overview Our Company NVIDIA Corporation invented the graphics processing unit, or GPU, in 1999. Since then, we have strived to set new standards in visual computing with interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and smart phones to notebooks and workstations. Our expertise in programmable GPUs and computer-systems technology has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing less expensive and widely accessible. We are strategically investing in three major areas visual computing, high performance computing and mobile computing. We serve the visual computing market with our consumer GeForce graphics products and professional Quadro graphics products; the high performance computing market with our Tesla computing solutions products; and the mobile computing market with our Tegra system-on-chip products. We have three primary financial reporting segments GPU, Professional Solutions Business, or PSB and Consumer Products Business, or CPB. Our GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce discrete and chipset products which support desktop and notebook personal computers, or PCs, plus memory products. Our GPU business is also comprised of license revenue in connection with the License Agreement with Intel Corporation. Our PSB is comprised of our Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products. Our CPB is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support smartphones, tablets, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, in-car instrumentation, navigation and entertainment, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. Original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, original design manufacturers, or ODMs, add-in-card manufacturers, system builders and consumer electronics companies worldwide utilize our processors as a core component of their entertainment, business and professional solutions. We were incorporated in California in April 1993 and reincorporated in Delaware in April 1998. Our headquarter facilities are in Santa Clara, California. Our Internet address is www.nvidia.com . The contents of our website are not a part of this Form 10-Q. 24 Recent Developments, Future Objectives and Challenges GPU Business During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we launched the GeForce GTX 590, one of the fastest and quietest graphics card available in the marketplace today. This product is more than two times quieter than the closest competitive product under full graphics load. GTX 590 is powered by dual Fermi GPUs on a single card and targets the enthusiast market. During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we also launched the GeForce GTX 550 Ti, an entry-level gaming GPU for next generation Intel systems. GTX 550 Ti delivers faster performance for DX11 games compared with its closest competitive product. The GTX 550 Ti is up to 50 percent faster in today's newest DX11 tessellated games, and 38 percent faster in previous-generation DX9 and DX10 games. Professional Solutions Business During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we announced the new Quadro 400, a new professional graphics solution designed for applications such as Autodesk AutoCAD and other leading CAD/CAM applications. The Quadro 400 GPU offers power efficiency, consuming less than 35 watts, and its low-profile footprint means it offers the flexibility to fit into any workstation, including small form-factor systems. We also announced the new CUDA 4.0 Toolkit. The new release provides unified virtual addressing, GPU-to-GPU communication and enhanced C++ template libraries which enable more developers to take advantage of GPU computing. We believe this, along with other ongoing initiatives in our Tesla high-performance computing business, will lead to continued growth in the PSB. Consumer Products Business During the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, we launched along with our partners, the first wave of Android smartphones and tablets. Among them are the Motorola Atrix 4G and LG Optimus 2X smartphones; as well as tablets like the Acer ICONIA Tab A500, Asus Eee Pad Transformer, Dell Streak, LG Optimus Pad and G-Slate, and Motorola Xoom. In addition, Samsung and Sony announced that their Galaxy Tab 10.1 and Sony S1 and S2 projects, respectively, will be using our Tegra 2 mobile super chip. Icera Acquisition On May 9, 2011, we announced our intention to acquire Icera Inc., an innovator of baseband processors for 3G and 4G cellular phones and tablets. Iceras high speed wireless-modem products have been approved by more than 50 carriers across the globe. We believe that by combining our products and technologies, including the Tegra processor, we could enhance our position as a player in the growing mobile market. The acquisition, for $367 million in cash, has been approved by both companies' boards of directors and is expected to be completed, subject to customary closing conditions, approximately 30 days from the announcement date. Product Defect During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation MCP and GPU products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and another related estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. We continue to not see any abnormal failure rates in any systems using NVIDIA products other than certain notebook configurations. However, we are continuing to test and otherwise investigate other products. There can be no assurance that we will not discover defects in other products. In September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation and the settlement. 25 Financial Information by Business Segment and Geographic Data Our Chief Executive Officer, who is considered to be our chief operating decision maker, or CODM, reviews financial information presented on an operating segment basis for purposes of making operating decisions and assessing financial performance. We report financial information for three operating segments to our CODM: the GPU business is comprised primarily of our GeForce discrete and chipset products which support desktop and notebook PCs, plus memory products. Our GPU business is also comprised of license revenue in connection with the License Agreement with Intel; the PSB, which is comprised of our NVIDIA Quadro professional workstation products and other professional graphics products, including our NVIDIA Tesla high-performance computing products; and our CPB which is comprised of our Tegra mobile products that support smartphones, tablets, personal media players, or PMPs, internet television, in-car instrumentation, navigation and entertainment, and other similar devices. CPB also includes license, royalty, other revenue and associated costs related to video game consoles and other digital consumer electronics devices. The All Other category includes non-recurring charges and benefits that we do not allocate to our other operating segments as these expenses and credits are not included in the segment operating performance measures evaluated by our CODM. There were no non-recurring charges or benefits for the first three months of fiscal years 2012 and 2011. Please refer to Note 15 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further disclosure regarding segment information. Results of Operations The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain items in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of revenue. Three Months Ended May 1, 2011 May 2, 2010 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 49.6 54.4 Gross profit 50.4 45.6 Operating expenses Research and development 24.1 21.8 Sales, general and administrative 10.2 9.1 Total operating expenses 34.3 30.9 Income from operations 16.1 14.7 Interest and other income, net 0.2 0.3 Income before income tax expense 16.3 15.0 Income tax expense 2.2 1.3 Net income 14.1 % 13.7 % Three months ended May 1, 2011 and May 2, 2010 Revenue Revenue was $962.0 million for our first quarter of fiscal year 2012, compared to $1.00 billion for our first quarter of fiscal year 2011, which represents a decrease of approximately 4%. We expect revenue to increase 4 to 6 percent during the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. A discussion of our revenue results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . GPU business revenue decreased by approximately 18% to $637.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, compared to $780.9 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. The decline was primarily the result of a decrease in sales of our MCP chipset products as these products approach their end of life. Our notebook GPU revenue also declined in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 as compared to 2011, related to the higher unit volume of our products that shipped with notebooks based on Intels Calpella platform in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared with the unit volume of our products that shipped in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 with notebooks based on Intels Sandy Bridge platform. Revenue from sales of our desktop GPU products increased slightly in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, primarily as a result of higher average sales prices. Our market share, in both the discrete desktop GPU and notebook GPU markets, measured in unit volume on a calendar quarter basis, declined during the most recent quarter when compared to a year ago according to the May 2011 PC Graphics Report from Mercury Research. PSB . PSB revenue increased by approximately 6% to $201.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, compared to $189.7 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. This increase was driven by growth in both our Quadro and Tesla brands with the launch of products containing our new Fermi architecture. CPB. CPB revenue increased by 293% to $122.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, compared to $31.2 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We achieved record revenue due to a significantly higher unit shipment volume of Tegra products, primarily Tegra 2- based products, as our partners launched several Android smartphones and tablets. 26 Concentration of Revenue Revenue from sales to customers outside of the United States and other Americas accounted for 81% and 85% of total revenue for the first quarter of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. Revenue by geographic region is allocated to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if the revenue is attributable to end customers in a different location. Revenue from significant customers, those representing 10% or more of total revenue, aggregated approximately 11% of our total revenue from one customer and 28% of our total revenue from two customers, for the first quarter of fiscal years 2012 and 2011 respectively. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit consists of total revenue, net of allowances, less cost of revenue. Cost of revenue consists primarily of the cost of semiconductors purchased from subcontractors, including wafer fabrication, assembly, testing and packaging, manufacturing support costs, including labor and overhead associated with such purchases, final test yield fallout, inventory and warranty provisions and shipping costs. Cost of revenue also includes development costs for license, service arrangements and stock-based compensation related to personnel associated with manufacturing. Gross margin is the percentage of gross profit to revenue. Our gross margin can vary in any period depending on the mix of types of products sold. Our gross margin is significantly impacted by the mix of products we sell. Product mix is often difficult to estimate with accuracy. Therefore, if we experience product transition challenges, if we achieve significant revenue growth in our lower margin product lines, or if we are unable to earn as much revenue as we expect from higher margin product lines, our gross margin may be negatively impacted. Our overall gross margin was 50.4% and 45.6% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 and 2011, respectively. The improvement in gross margin for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 when compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 was attributable to a richer product mix and the continuing positive impact of improved yields of our 40nm products as well as other manufacturing cost reductions. Additionally, our gross margin was favorably impacted by sales of products that were previously written off or written down and sales of such items improved gross margin by approximately 2.7% and 1.2% in the first quarter of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. Offsetting these releases are provisions for new inventory reserves. The net effect to gross margin from new inventory reserves and sales of items previously written down was a 1.4% favorable impact in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 and 2.2% unfavorable impact in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. We intend to focus on improving our gross margin by delivering cost effective product architectures, enhancing business processes and delivering profitable growth. We expect gross margin to be between 50.5% and 51.5% during the second quarter of fiscal year 2012. A discussion of our gross margin results for each of our operating segments is as follows: GPU Business . The gross margin of our GPU business increased during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. The increase was primarily due to strong average selling price, ASP, growth in our desktop and notebook products. Gross margin also improved as a result of favorable product mix, better yields of our 40nm products as well as other manufacturing cost reductions. Additionally, the net impact of new inventory reserves and releases resulting from sales of products that were previously written off or written down had a favorable effect on gross margin for this business in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012, and had a negative impact on gross margin in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. PSB . The gross margin of our PSB decreased during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. The decrease was primarily due to a less favorable mix of products sold. CPB . The gross margin of our CPB decreased during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 as compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011, reflecting the evolution within the quarter from a business with revenue based primarily on license and royalty revenue to a business based primarily on Tegra product revenue. 27 Operating Expenses Three Months Ended May 1, 2011 May 2, 2010 $ Change % Change (In millions) Research and development expenses $ 231.5 $ 218.1 $ 13.4 6.1 % Sales, general and administrative expenses 98.1 90.9 7.2 7.9 % Total operating expenses $ 329.6 $ 309.0 $ 20.6 6.7 % Research and development as a percentage of net revenue 24.1 % 21.8 % Sales, general and administrative as a percentage of net revenue 10.2 % 9.1 % Research and Development Research and development expenses were $231.5 million and $218.1 million during the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 and 2011, respectively, an increase of $13.4 million, or 6.1%. Compensation and benefits increased by $11.6 million and stock based compensation increased by $3.9 million, primarily related to growth in headcount. These increases were offset by a decrease of $3.8 million in product and technology development expenses. Sales, General and Administrative Sales, general and administrative expenses were $98.1 million and $90.9 million during the first quarter of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively, a decrease of $7.2 million, or 7.9%. Compensation and benefits increased by $6.2 million and stock based compensation increased by $1.9 million, primarily related to growth in headcount. These increases were offset by a decrease in outside professional fees by $4.2 million due to reduced litigation activities. We expect operating expenses to be approximately $332 million to $336 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Interest income was $5.3 million and $5.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively, a decrease of $0.3 million. These decreases were primarily due to lower interest rates in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 when compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. Other Income (Expense), net Other income (expense) primarily consists of realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and foreign currency translation. Other (expense), net of other income was ($3.7) million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 compared to ($2.2) million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011. The increase of $1.5 million was primarily driven by an increase in foreign currency losses in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Income Taxes We recognized income tax expense of $21.3 million and $13.1 million for the three months ended May 1, 2011 and May 2, 2010, respectively. Income tax expense as a percentage of income before taxes, or our effective tax rate, was 13.6% and 8.7% for the three months ended May 1, 2011 and May 2, 2010, respectively. The difference in our effective tax rate of 13.6% and 8.7% was primarily related to discrete tax benefits attributable to the expiration of statues of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions not previously recognized that were greater in the first quarter of fiscal year 2011 over the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Our effective tax rate on income before tax for the first three months of fiscal year 2012 of 13.6% was lower than the United States federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to income earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax. Further, our annual projected effective tax rate as of the first three months of fiscal year 2012 of 16.7% differs from our effective tax rate for the first three months fiscal year 2012 of 13.6% due to favorable discrete events that occurred in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 primarily attributable to the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which we had not previously recognized related tax benefits. Our effective tax rate on income before tax for the first three months of fiscal year 2011 of 8.7% was lower than the United States federal statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to income earned in jurisdictions where the tax rate is lower than the United States federal statutory tax rate and favorable discrete events that occurred in the first three months of fiscal year 2011 primarily attributable to the expiration of statutes of limitations in certain non-U.S. jurisdictions for which we had not previously recognized related tax benefits. We expect our effective tax rate in the second quarter of fiscal year 2012 to be approximately 14% to 16%, depending primarily on any discrete tax events that may occur in such quarter. Please refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the components of our income tax expense. 28 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of May 1, 2011 As of January 30, 2011 (In millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 683.6 $ 665.4 Marketable securities 2,042.9 1,825.2 Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 2,726.5 $ 2,490.6 Three Months Ended May 1, May 2, 2011 2010 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 172.2 $ (5.4 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (252.5 ) $ (57.3 ) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 98.6 $ 62.8 As of May 1, 2011, we had $2.73 billion in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, an increase of $235.9 million from $2.49 billion at the end of fiscal year 2011. Our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities is managed by several financial institutions. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities, the diversification of asset type and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration. Operating activities Operating activities provided cash of $172.2 million and used cash of $5.4 million during the first three months of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in the first three months of fiscal year 2012 was primarily due to favorable changes in working capital driven by a decrease in accounts receivable due to improved sales linearity and stronger collections. Investing activities Investing activities consisted primarily of purchases and sales of marketable securities and purchases of property and equipment, which include leasehold improvements for our facilities and intangible assets. Investing activities used cash of $252.5 million and $57.3 million during the first three months of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase in investing activities was primarily as a result of increased capital expenditure related to purchases of new research and development equipment, testing equipment, technology licenses, software and intangible assets to support our increased investment in product development. We expect to spend approximately $125 million to $175 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2012, primarily for leasehold improvements, software licenses, emulation equipment, computers and engineering workstations. In addition, we plan to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. Financing activities Financing activities provided cash of $98.6 million and $62.8 million during the first three months of fiscal years 2012 and 2011, respectively. Net cash provided by financing activities in the first three months of fiscal year 2012 was primarily due to an increase of proceeds from issuance of common stock under our employee stock plans during the first three months of fiscal year 2012. 29 Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is cash generated by our operations. Our investment portfolio consisted of cash and cash equivalents, commercial paper, mortgage-backed securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises, equity securities, money market funds and debt securities of corporations, municipalities and the United States government and its agencies. These investments are denominated in United States dollars. As of May 1, 2011, we did not have any investments in auction-rate preferred securities. All of our cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as available-for-sale. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair value of our publicly traded debt or equity investments is judged to be other-than-temporary. We may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as available-for-sale, no gains or losses are realized in our statement of operations due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or unless declines in market values are determined to be other-than-temporary. These securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of stockholders equity, net of tax. As of May 1, 2011 and January 30, 2011, we had $2.73 billion and $2.49 billion, respectively, in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Our investment policy requires the purchase of top-tier investment grade securities and the diversification of asset types and includes certain limits on our portfolio duration, as specified in our investment policy guidelines. These guidelines also limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer or type of instrument. As of May 1, 2011, we were in compliance with our investment policy. As of May 1, 2011, our investments in government agencies and government sponsored enterprises represented approximately 51% of our total investment portfolio, while the financial sector accounted for approximately 30% of our total investment portfolio. All of our investments are with A/A2 or better rated securities. We performed an impairment review of our investment portfolio as of May 1, 2011. Based on our quarterly impairment review, we concluded that our investments were appropriately valued and did not record any impairment during three months ended May 1, 2011. Net realized gains for the three months ended May 1, 2011 were $0.1 million. As of May 1, 2011, we had a net unrealized gain of $11.6 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $11.8 million, offset by gross unrealized losses of $0.2 million. As of January 30, 2011, we had a net unrealized gain of $10.5 million, which was comprised of gross unrealized gains of $11.0 million, offset by $0.5 million of gross unrealized losses. Our accounts receivable are highly concentrated and make us vulnerable to adverse changes in our customers businesses, and to downturns in the industry and the worldwide economy. One customer accounted for approximately 12% of our accounts receivable balance at May 1, 2011. While we strive to limit our exposure to uncollectible accounts receivable using a combination of credit insurance and letters of credit, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. These difficulties are heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. We continue to work directly with more foreign customers and it may be difficult to collect accounts receivable from them. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance consists of an amount identified for specific customers and an amount based on overall estimated exposure. If the financial condition of our customers were to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment in their ability to make payments, additional allowances may be required, we may be required to defer revenue recognition on sales to affected customers, and we may be required to pay higher credit insurance premiums, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. In the future, we may have to record additional reserves or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions which could negatively impact our financial results. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the United States. As of May 1, 2011, we had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of $773.2 million held within the United States and $1.95 billion held outside of the United States. Most of the amounts held outside the United States may be repatriated to the United States but, under current law, would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. Further, repatriation of some foreign balances may be restricted by local laws. As of January 30, 2011, we have not provided for U.S. federal and state income taxes on approximately $904.3 million of undistributed earnings of non-United States subsidiaries, as such earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Although we have no current need to do so, if we repatriate foreign earnings for cash requirements in the United States, we would incur U.S. federal and state income tax, less applicable foreign tax credits, and reduced by the current amount of our U.S. federal and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Further, in addition to the $773.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held within the United States and available to fund our U.S. operations and any other U.S. cash needs, we have access to external sources of financing if cash is needed in the United States other than by repatriation of foreign earnings where U.S. income tax may otherwise be due. Accordingly, we do not reasonably expect any material effect on our business, as a whole, or to our financial flexibility with respect to our current cash balances held outside of the United States. 30 Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized us, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate maximum amount of $2.7 billion through May 2013. The repurchases will be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions, or in structured stock repurchase programs, and may be made in one or more larger repurchases, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other factors. The program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be suspended at any time at our discretion. As part of our share repurchase program, we have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, structured share repurchase transactions with financial institutions. These agreements generally require that we make an up-front payment in exchange for the right to receive a fixed number of shares of our common stock upon execution of the agreement, and a potential incremental number of shares of our common stock, within a pre-determined range, at the end of the term of the agreement. We did not enter into any structured share repurchase transactions or otherwise purchase any shares of our common stock during the three months ended May 1, 2011. Through May 1, 2011, we have repurchased an aggregate of 90.9 million shares under our stock repurchase program for a total cost of $1.46 billion. As of May 1, 2011, we are authorized, subject to certain specifications, to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $1.24 billion through May 2013. Operating Capital and Capital Expenditure Requirements We believe that our existing cash balances and anticipated cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our operating, acquisition and capital requirements for at least the next twelve months. However, there is no assurance that we will not need to raise additional equity or debt financing within this time frame. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms or at all and may be dilutive to our then-current stockholders. We also may require additional capital for other purposes not presently contemplated. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital, we could be required to curtail capital equipment purchases or research and development expenditures, which could harm our business. Factors that could affect our cash used or generated from operations and, as a result, our need to seek additional borrowings or capital include: decreased demand and market acceptance for our products and/or our customers products; inability to successfully develop and produce in volume production our next-generation products; competitive pressures resulting in lower than expected average selling prices; and new product announcements or product introductions by our competitors. We expect to spend approximately $125 million to $175 million for capital expenditures during the remainder of fiscal year 2012. In addition, we may continue to use cash in connection with the acquisition of new businesses or assets. For additional factors see Item 1A. Risk Factors - Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Partners - Our revenue may fluctuate while our operating expenses are relatively fixed, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our results to fall short of expectations. Icera Acquisition On May 9, 2011, we announced our intention to acquire Icera Inc., an innovator of baseband processors for 3G and 4G cellular phones and tablets. Iceras high speed wireless-modem products have been approved by more than 50 carriers across the globe. We believe that by combining our products and technologies, including the Tegra processor, we could enhance our position as a player in the growing mobile market. The acquisition, for $367 million in cash, has been approved by both companies' boards of directors and is expected to be completed, subject to customary closing conditions, approximately 30 days from the announcement date. Also in connection with our agreement to acquire Icera, we have committed to establishing a retention program in the amount of approximately $68.0 million to be paid out to Icera employees over a period of four years. Product Defect Our products are complex and may contain defects or experience failures due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. If any of our products or technologies contains a defect, compatibility issue or other error, we may have to invest additional research and development efforts to find and correct the issue. Such efforts could divert our managements and engineers attention from the development of new products and technologies and could increase our operating costs and reduce our gross margin. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins. Also, we may be required to reimburse customers, including for customers costs to repair or replace the products in the field, which could cause our revenue to decline. A product recall or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation and could result in the shifting of business to our competitors. Costs associated with correcting defects, errors, bugs or other issues could be significant and could materially harm our financial results. 31 During the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, we recorded an additional charge to cover the estimated remaining customer warranty, repair, return, replacement and other costs arising from a weak die/packaging material set in certain versions of our previous generation media and communications processor, or MCP, and graphics processing unit, or GPU, products used in notebook configurations. The net charge amounted to $193.9 million, of which $181.2 million was charged against cost of revenue. The extra remediation costs are primarily due to additional platforms from late failing systems that we had not previously considered to be at risk. Included in the charge are the estimated costs of implementing a settlement reached during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 with the plaintiffs of a putative consumer class action lawsuit related to this same matter and another related estimated consumer class action settlement. As a result of this settlement, the other estimated settlement, and offsetting insurance reimbursements, we recorded a net charge of $12.7 million to sales, general and administrative expense during the second quarter of fiscal year 2011. Together with the $282.0 million net charge we had previously recorded for related estimated costs, this brings the total cumulative net charge to $475.9 million, of which $466.4 million has been charged against cost of revenue and the remainder has been charged to sales, general and administrative. The previous generation MCP and GPU products that are impacted were included in a number of notebook products that were shipped and sold in significant quantities. Certain notebook configurations of these products are failing in the field at higher than normal rates. Testing suggests a weak material set of die/package combination, system thermal management designs, and customer use patterns are contributing factors for these failures. We have worked with our customers to develop and have made available for download a software driver to cause the system fan to begin operation at the powering up of the system and reduce the thermal stress on these chips. We have also recommended to our customers that they consider changing the thermal management of the products in their notebook system designs. We intend to fully support our customers in their repair and replacement of these impacted products that fail, and their other efforts to mitigate the consequences of these failures. The weak die/packaging material combination is not used in any of our products that are currently in production. In September, October and November 2008, several putative securities class action lawsuits were filed against us, asserting various claims related to the impacted MCP and GPU products. Please refer to Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this litigation and the settlement. Contractual Obligations At May 1, 2011, we had outstanding inventory purchase obligations totaling approximately $491.0 million. Also in connection with our agreement to acquire Icera, we have committed to establishing a retention program in the amount of approximately $68.0 million to be paid out to Icera employees over a period of four years. There were no other material changes in our contractual obligations from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011. Please see Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of May 1, 2011, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Regulation S-K 303(a)(4)(ii). Adoption of New and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Please see Note 1 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of adoption of new and recently issued accounting pronouncements. 32