Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Unless otherwise required, all references herein to we, our, us, NXP and the Company are to NXP Semiconductors N.V. and its consolidated subsidiaries. This Annual Report includes market data and certain other statistical information and estimates that are based on reports and other publications from industry analysts, market research firms, and other independent sources, as well as managements own good faith estimates and analyses. NXP believes these third-party reports to be reputable, but has not independently verified the underlying data sources, methodologies or assumptions. The reports and other publications referenced are generally available to the public and were not commissioned by NXP. Information that is based on estimates, forecasts, projections, market research or similar methodologies is inherently subject to uncertainties and actual events or circumstances may differ materially from events and circumstances reflected in this information. 2 Part I Item 1. Business Company Overview NXP Semiconductors N.V. is a global semiconductor company and a long-standing supplier in the industry, with over 50 years of innovation and operating history. For the year ended December 31, 2019 , we generated revenue of $ 8,877 million , compared to $ 9,407 million for the year ended December 31, 2018 . We provide leading solutions that leverage our combined portfolio of intellectual property, deep application knowledge, process technology and manufacturing expertise in the domains of cryptography-security, high-speed interface, radio frequency (RF), mixed-signal analog-digital (mixed A/D), power management, digital signal processing and embedded system design. Our product solutions are used in a wide range of end-market applications including: automotive, industrial & Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, and communication infrastructure. We engage with leading global original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and sell products in all major geographic regions. Our legal name is NXP Semiconductors N.V. and our commercial name is NXP or NXP Semiconductors. We were incorporated in the Netherlands in 2006 as a Dutch public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap). On August 5, 2010, we made an initial public offering of 34 million shares of our common stock and listed our common stock on Nasdaq. We are a holding company (the Holding Company) whose only material assets are the direct ownership of 100% of the shares of NXP B.V., a Dutch private company with limited liability (besloten vennootschap met beperkte aansprakelijkheid). Our corporate seat is in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. Our principal executive office is at High Tech Campus 60, 5656 AG Eindhoven, the Netherlands, and our telephone number is +31 40 2729999. Our registered agent in the United States is NXP USA, Inc., 6501 William Cannon Dr. West, Austin, Texas 78735, United States of America, phone number +1 512 9338214. Semiconductor Market Overview Semiconductors perform a broad variety of functions within electronic products and systems, including processing data, sensing, storing information and converting or controlling electronic signals. Semiconductors vary significantly depending upon the specific function or application of the end product in which the semiconductor is used and the customer who is deploying it. Semiconductors also vary on a number of technical characteristics including the degree of integration, level of customization, programmability and the process technology utilized to manufacture the semiconductor. Advances in semiconductor technology have increased the functionality and performance of semiconductors, improving their features and power consumption characteristics while reducing their size and cost. These advances have resulted in growth of semiconductors and electronic content across a diverse array of products. The semiconductor market totaled $412 billion in 2019. Business Combinations On December 6, 2019, NXP acquired Marvell Technology Group Ltd.'s ("Marvell") Wireless WiFi Connectivity Business Unit, Bluetooth technology portfolio and related assets, for total consideration of $1.7 billion, net of closing adjustments. The financial results from the acquisition date through December 31, 2019, are included in NXPs Consolidated Statement of Operations, as discussed herein. NXP accounted for the acquisition under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards 3 Board Accounting Standards Topic 805, Business Combinations , with NXP treated as the accounting acquirer , see further discussion below. On October 27, 2016, NXP entered into a purchase agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Qualcomm River Holdings B.V. (Buyer), a wholly-owned, indirect subsidiary of QUALCOMM Incorporated (Qualcomm). Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Buyer commenced a tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP for $110 per share in cash, for estimated total cash consideration of $38 billion. On February 20, 2018, NXP entered into an amendment (the Purchase Agreement Amendment) to the Purchase Agreement with Buyer. Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement Amendment, Buyer agreed to revise the terms of its tender offer to acquire all of the issued and outstanding common shares of NXP and increase the offer price from $110 per share to $127.50 per share, for estimated total cash consideration of $44 billion. On April 19, 2018, NXP and Buyer further amended the Purchase Agreement to extend the date that either Buyer or NXP would have the right to terminate the Purchase Agreement to July 25, 2018, subject to the terms of the Purchase Agreement. On July 26, 2018, NXP received notice from Qualcomm that it had terminated, effective immediately, the Purchase Agreement, as amended, between NXP and Buyer following the inability to obtain the required approval for the transaction from the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) of the Peoples Republic of China prior to the end date stipulated by the parties under the Purchase Agreement. On July 26, 2018, NXP received $2 billion termination compensation per the terms of the Purchase Agreement. Other Significant Transactions On August 16, 2019, NXP reached a definitive agreement with Shenzhen Goodix Technology Co., Ltd. from China, under which it will acquire all assets related to our Voice and Audio Solutions (VAS) activities for an amount of $165 million. These assets have met the held for sale criteria as of December 31, 2019. On July 10, 2018, NXP completed the sale of its 40% equity interest of Suzhou ASEN Semiconductors Co., Ltd. to J&R Holding Limited, receiving $127 million in cash proceeds. In June 2018, NXP completed the sale of 24% of its equity interest in WeEn to Tianjin Ruixin Semiconductor Industry Investment Centre LLP, receiving $32 million in cash proceeds. At December 31, 2018, due to the intended sale of the remaining interest in WeEn, NXP transferred the remaining holding to other current assets. On March 27, 2019, we sold our remaining equity interest in WeEn, receiving net cash proceeds of $37 million. Reporting Segments Prior to January 1, 2019, High Performance Mixed Signal (HPMS) was our sole reportable segment. Corporate and Other represented the remaining portion to reconcile to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Effective January 1, 2019, NXP removed the reference to HPMS in its organizational structure in acknowledgement of the one reportable segment representing the entity as a whole and reflects the way in which our chief operating decision maker executes operating decisions, allocates resources, and manages the growth and profitability of the Company. End-market Exposure Our product groups are focused on four primary end-markets that we believe are characterized by long-term, attractive growth opportunities and where we enjoy sustained, competitive differentiation through our technology leadership. The four end-markets are Automotive, Industrial & IoT, Mobile, and Communication Infrastructure & Others. 4 Automotive Industrial & IoT Mobile Comm Infra & Others Key Applications ADAS/Radar Connected Infotainment Vehicle Networks Electrification Secure Car Access eCockpit Body Comfort & Convenience Powertrain Factory and Building Automation Smart Home and Building Control Home Entertainment Power and Energy Medical Smart Retail Smart Appliances Smartphones Wearables Tablets Mobile Accessories Wireless Basestations Enterprise Data Center Network & Security Wired and Wireless Service Provider Infrastructure Banking Cards eGovernment Transit Cards RFID Tagging Growth Drivers Vehicle electrification and automation Government requirements & consumer demands for increased safety, reliability, comfort and efficiency Increase need of security across all applications Shift from mechanical to electronic equipment Increasing processing and connectivity Increasing use of low-power nodes Energy efficiency Predictive maintenance Automation Machine Learning Mobile Wallet/Mobile Transit Custom Interface/Power solutions 5G development/Massive MiMo and mmwave Increasing demand for bandwidth, cloud computing IoT i. Automotive Growth in automotive semiconductor sales relies on global vehicle sales and production trends and the increase in semiconductor content per vehicle, which is being driven by the proliferation of electronic features throughout the vehicle. Two mega-trends will drive the semiconductor content increase in the future: Electrification and autonomy. The path to full autonomy is driving the increase of driver assistance systems in the car already today. In the same way, tight emissions regulations are accelerating the penetration of electrification. Semiconductor content per vehicle continues to increase due to government regulation of safety and emissions, standardization of higher-end options across a greater number of vehicle classes as well as consumer demand for greater fuel efficiency, advanced safety, multimedia applications and connectivity. Automotive safety features are evolving from passive safety systems to active safety systems with Advanced Driving Assisted Systems (ADAS) such as radar and vision systems. Semiconductor content is also increasing in engine management and fuel economy applications, like Battery Management Systems (BMS). Comfort and convenience systems and user interface applications, such as a digital cockpit with multiple large interactive screens, are also areas with high semiconductor content increases. In addition, the use of networking in automotive applications continues to increase as various subsystems communicate within the automobile and with external devices and networks. Smart car access and automotive Near-Field Communication (NFC) are gaining ground in automotive as well, enabling the connection of vehicles and car keys to portable devices and the infrastructure. Data integrity and security hardware features for safeguarding memory, communication and system data are also increasing in importance. Due to the high degree of regulatory scrutiny and safety requirements, the automotive semiconductor market is characterized by stringent qualification processes, zero defect quality processes, functionally safe design architecture, high reliability, extensive design-in timeframes and long product life cycles which results in significant barriers to entry. ii. Industrial & IoT The world is becoming smarter, more connected and more data driven, and the Industrial & IoT market sits at the center of this global digital transformation. The Industrial & IoT market is highly fragmented with a diverse collection of products and applications such as factory automation, power and energy, medical electronics, smart retail, smart home, smart appliances and home entertainment. Growth in the Industrial market is driven by the replacement of traditional mechanical equipment by smart and connected electronic equipment using various sensors, processors, connectivity and security chipsets that align well with NXPs ability to provide a complete range of processing, connectivity and secure solutions. In IoT, growth is driven by the increasing use of high-performance edge and media devices (e.g. home 5 entertainment, connected home assistants, home control and security) and low power IoT nodes (e.g. smart home, hearables, health trackers) where NXP scalable solutions across the entire embedded processing spectrum are ideally suited. The increase in productivity with real-time insights and efficient processes for factory automation, the enhancement in consumer convenience, security and comfort for smart homes, the reduction of resource consumption and better energy efficiency for smart appliances, the increase in performance of rich media content in smart consumer devices and the need for better health prevention and monitoring solutions (wearables, smart patches and smart drug delivery devices) to help ensure the future health of millions of people are some of the key use-cases driving growth in Industrial & IoT. Finally, with the growing number of connected devices, latency, privacy and bandwidth become critical limiting factors and Edge computing solves this by bringing the intelligence closer to the source. Security and tamper-detection capabilities are also becoming essential features of these Industrial & IoT solutions. iii. Mobile Mobile includes applications such as smartphones, feature phones, tablets, wearables and mobile accessories. NXP has a strong focus on mobile wallet and specialty custom analog solutions. The demand for faster speeds, improved battery life, fast charging, mobile wallet, mobile transit and authentication is driving increased semiconductor content for NXP. The growth in this market is mainly driven by the increasing attach rate of these features across devices, vendors and regions, from flagship smartphones down to feature phones, from developed countries to emerging regions. The introduction of new technologies and new use-cases around secured connectivity, high-speed interfaces and charging creates additional opportunities for NXP. iv. Communication Infrastructure & Others Growth in the network communication market is driven by strong demand for digital content, ubiquitous access, security, increased enterprise adoption of advanced video communications and the trend towards an increasingly global and mobile workforce. These factors have driven greater adoption of both mobile and fixed Internet services and smart devices, cloud computing environments, Internet Protocol television and online gaming. With the trend toward increasingly media-rich applications such as video sharing platforms, social networks, high definition (HD) movie downloads, video conferencing, wireless connectivity and enterprise access, Internet traffic is increasing continuously. The growth in data traffic is resulting in service providers, enterprises and consumers demanding an increase in the amount of wireless infrastructure, networking and electronic equipment. Providers of wireless infrastructure, networking and storage equipment are introducing new technologies and products with enhanced performance and functionality while reducing design and manufacturing costs. As more and more data is being exchanged and consumed by billions of connected devices, 5G, the new mobile communication technology, enables very fast data transfer, low latency and reliability. 5G can support services that require immediate and uninterrupted connectivity. More bandwidth and higher frequencies are needed requiring more compute power. More base stations are needed and massive MIMO - which provides better throughput and better spectrum efficiency - will greatly expand the number of antennas needed to maximize coverage in combination with small cells densification. In secure identification solutions, the demand for applications requiring the highest security and reliability shifts towards solutions with a contactless RF interface driven by the increasing adoption of contactless ePassports, eID credentials, transportation and payment cards. Radio-Frequency IDentification (RFID) can be used to identify and authenticate objects and is designed to fulfill the requirements of a wide range of applications across numerous vertical markets. RFID technology is entering new markets, such as interactive gaming and toys, and various applications to track goods through the supply chain and keep track of inventory. In addition, there is an increasing demand for authentication and anti-counterfeit solutions to protect manufacturers and consumers. Products We offer customers a broad portfolio of semiconductor products including microcontrollers, application processors, communication processors, connectivity chipsets, analog and interface devices, RF power amplifiers, 6 security controllers and sensors. A key element of our strategy is to offer highly integrated and secure solutions that are increasingly sought by our customers to simplify their development efforts and shorten their time to market. We believe we have the broadest ARM processor portfolio in the industry from microcontrollers to crossover processors, from application processors to communication processors. i. Microcontrollers We have been a provider of MCU solutions for more than 40 years. MCUs integrate all the major components of a computing system onto a single semiconductor device. Typically, this includes a programmable processor core, memory, interface circuitry and other components. MCUs provide the digital logic, or intelligence, for electronic applications, controlling electronic equipment or analyzing sensor inputs. We are a trusted, long-term supplier of MCUs to many of our customers, especially in the automotive, smartcards and industrial markets. Our MCU product portfolio ranges from 8-bit products to higher performance 16-bit and 32-bit products with on-board flash memory. Our portfolio is highly scalable, and is coupled with our extensive software and design tools. This enables our customers to design-in and deploy our MCU families, leveraging a consistent software development environment. Due to the scalability of our portfolio we are able to help future-proof our customers products as their systems evolve, becoming more complex or requiring greater processing capabilities over time. For automotive applications, our microcontrollers deliver the required reliability, security and functional safety to address current and future automotive challenges. In an increasingly connected and networked society, where security is playing a more important role, our MCU families are equipped with varying security features (such as remote authentication, system/data integrity, secure communication and anomaly detection) to address different type of security risks. We also recently introduced our new i.MX RT crossover processors that are built using applications processors chassis, delivering a high level of integration, high speed peripherals, enhanced security, and engines for enhanced user experience (for example, 2D/3D graphics), but powered by a low-power MCU core running a real-time operating system like Amazon Free RTOS or Zephyr RTOS. The i.MX RT series offers the high performing Arm Cortex-M core, real-time functionality, and MCU usability at an affordable price. ii. Application Processors Application processors consist of a computing core with embedded memory and special-purpose hardware and software for secure multimedia applications such as graphics and video. Our products focus on consumer devices, industrial applications and automotive applications, like driver information systems, ADAS and vehicle networking that require processing and multimedia capabilities. We provide highly integrated ARM-based i.MX application processors with integrated audio, video and graphics capability that are optimized for low-power and high-performance applications. Our i.MX family of processors are designed in conjunction with a broad suite of additional products including power management solutions, audio codecs, touch sensors and accelerometers to provide full systems solutions across a wide range of operating systems and applications. Our i.MX 8 family of applications processors is a feature and performance scalable multi-core platform that includes single, dual and quad-core families based on the Arm Cortex architecture for advanced graphics, imaging, machine vision, audio, voice, video, and safety-critical applications. Together, these products provide a family of applications processors featuring software, power and pin compatibility across single, dual and quad core implementations. Software support includes Linux and Android implementations. Our S32x Automotive Processing Platform offers scalability across products and multiple application domains based on Arm Cortex-A, Cortex-R, and Cortex-M cores with Automotive Safety Integrity Level (ASIL-D) capabilities. iii. Communication Processors Communication processors combine a computing core, caches and other memories, with high-speed networking and input/output interfaces, such as Ethernet and PCI Express. Our portfolio includes 64-bit Arm-based Layerscape processors with up to 16 CPUs and Ethernet ports running at up to 100Gbps. Software support includes Linux and commercial real-time operating systems. Within enterprise and data-center communications infrastructure, our processors are used in switches, routers, SD-WAN access devices, Wi-Fi access points, and network security systems. Within service-provider communications infrastructure, our processors are used in cellular base stations, fixed wireless access Customer Premises Equipment (CPE), residential gateways, broadband aggregation systems, and core networking equipment. Although designed for use in communications infrastructure, these processors also find widespread use in other types of equipment, including industrial automation for control, edge computing nodes, cloud computing servers for offloading networking functions, and automobiles for communications and some ADAS functions. We also offer Layerscape Access processors, 7 which implement baseband functions, principally for wireless systems such as 5G fixed wireless access, using programmable vector signal processors. iv. Wireless Connectivity We offer a broad portfolio of connectivity solutions, including Near Field Communications (NFC), Ultra-wideband (UWB), Bluetooth low-energy (BLE), Zigbee as well as Wi-Fi and Wi-Fi/Bluetooth integrated SoCs. These products are integrated into a wide variety of end devices, such as mobile phones, wearables, enterprise access points, home gateways, voice assistants, multimedia devices, gaming, printers, automotive infotainment and smart industrial devices. v. Analog and Interface Products We have a very broad portfolio of Analog and Interface products that are used in many markets, particularly automotive, industrial/IoT and mobile. In automotive we are the market leader in most of the applications, with integrated 77Ghz Radar solution for ADAS, battery management products for Electrification, audio processing solutions and amplifiers for car entertainment, Controller Area Network (CAN), Local Interconnect Network (LIN), FlexRay and Ethernet solutions for in-vehicle networking and two-way secure products for secure car access. In Industrial/IoT and Mobile, we are a major supplier in interface, power and high-performance analog products. Our product portfolios includes I2C/IC, General Purpose Input/Output (GPIO), LED controllers, real-time clocks, signal and load switches, signal integrity products, wired charging solutions, fast charging solutions, DC-DC, AC-DC converters and high-performance RF amplifiers. We have also successfully engaged with leading OEMs to drive custom and semi-custom products which in turn allow us to refine and accelerate our innovation and product roadmaps. vi. Radio Frequency Devices NXP is the market leader in High-Performance Radio Frequency (HPRF) power amplifiers. We have an extensive portfolio of LDMOS, GaN and GaAs RF transistors. NXPs solutions range from sub-6GHz to 40GHz and from milliwatts to kilowatts. For base stations, NXP offers a full range of solutions addressing 5G RF power amplification needs from MIMO to massive MIMO based active antenna systems for cellular and millimeter Wave (mmWave) spectrum bands. We are engaged with the majority of the largest customers in mobile base stations and in several other application areas. In low and medium Power Amplification, NXPs low noise amplifier (LNA) portfolio offers solutions to meet future design needs in a wide range of applications. Two technologies serve the LNA portfolio, each with distinct advantages for their applications. Wireless infrastructure applications and many general wireless applications are served with III-V technology LNAs. Advanced SiGe technology is utilized in LNAs designed for wireless communication, cellular, consumer, automotive and industrial applications. vii. Security Controllers NXP is the market leader in security controller ICs. Our security controller ICs are embedded in smart cards (ePassports, electronic ID credentials, payment cards, transportation cards), as well as in consumer electronic and smart devices, for example in smartphones, tablets and wearables. These security controller ICs are suited for applications demanding the highest security and reliability. Nearly all of our security products consist of multi-functional solutions comprised of passive RF connectivity devices facilitating information transfer from the user document to reader infrastructure; secure, tamper-proof microcontroller devices in which information is securely encrypted (secure element); and secure real-time operating system software products to facilitate the encryption-decryption of data, and the interaction with the reader infrastructure systems. Our solutions are developed to provide extreme levels of security of user information, undergoing stringent and continued global governmental and banking certification processes, and to deliver high level of device performance enabling significant throughput and productivity to our customers. viii. Sensors Sensors serve as a primary interface in embedded systems for advanced human interface and contextual awareness that mimic the human 5 senses interaction with the external environment. We provide several categories of semiconductor-based environmental and inertial sensors for the Automotive market, including 8 pressure, inertial, magnetic and gyroscopic sensors that provide orientation detection, gesture recognition, tilt to scroll functionality and position detection. Manufacturing We manufacture integrated circuits and discrete semiconductors through a combination of wholly owned manufacturing facilities, a manufacturing facility operated jointly with another semiconductor company and third-party foundries and assembly and test subcontractors. We manage our manufacturing assets together through one centralized organization to ensure we realize scale benefits in asset utilization, purchasing volumes and overhead leverage across businesses. In the future, we expect to outsource an increased part of our internal demand for wafer foundry and packaging services to third-party manufacturing sources in order to increase our flexibility to accommodate increased demand. The manufacturing of a semiconductor involves several phases of production, which can be broadly divided into front-end and back-end processes. Front-end processes take place at highly complex wafer manufacturing facilities (called fabrication plants or wafer fabs), and involve the imprinting of substrate silicon wafers with the precise circuitry required for semiconductors to function. The front-end production cycle requires high levels of precision and involves as many as 300 process steps. Back-end processes involve the assembly, test and packaging of semiconductors in a form suitable for distribution. In contrast to the highly complex front-end process, back-end processing is generally less complicated, and as a result we tend to determine the location of our back-end facilities based more on cost factors than on technical considerations. We primarily focus our internal and joint venture wafer manufacturing operations on running proprietary specialty process technologies that enable us to differentiate our products on key performance features, and we generally outsource wafer manufacturing in process technologies that are available at third-party wafer foundries when it is economical to do so. In addition, we increasingly focus our in-house manufacturing on our competitive 8-inch wafer facilities, which predominantly run manufacturing processes in the 140 nanometer, 180 nanometer and 250 nanometer process nodes. This focus increases our return on invested capital and reduces capital expenditures. Our front-end manufacturing facilities use a broad range of production processes and proprietary design methods, including complementary metal oxide semiconductor (CMOS), bipolar, bipolar CMOS (BiCMOS) and double-diffused metal on silicon oxide semiconductor (DMOS) technologies. Our wafer fabs produce semiconductors with line widths ranging from 90 nanometers to 3 microns for integrated circuits and 0.5 microns to greater than 4 microns for discretes. This broad technology portfolio enables us to meet increasing demand from customers for system solutions, which require a variety of technologies. Our back-end manufacturing facilities test and package many different types of products using a wide variety of processes. To optimize flexibility, we use shared technology platforms for our back-end assembly operations. Most of our assembly and test activities are maintained in-house. 9 The following table shows selected key information with respect to our major front-end and back-end facilities: Site Ownership Wafer sized used Line widths used (vm) Technology/Products (Microns) Front-end Singapore (SSMC) 61.2 % 8 0.14-0.25 CMOS Nijmegen, the Netherlands 100 % 8 0.14-0.80 CMOS, BiCMOS, LDMOS Austin (Oak Hill), United States 100 % 8 0.25 CMOS, BiCMOS, Sensors, LDMOS, HDTMOS, PowerCMOS Chandler, United States 100 % 8 0.25-0.50 CMOS, eNVM, PowerCMOS Austin (Ed Bluestein), United States 100 % 8 0.09-0.18 CMOS, eNVM, PowerCMOS, Advanced CMOS, SoC Back-end 100 % Kaohsiung, Taiwan 100 % NFC, Automotive Car-access, Micro-controllers Bangkok, Thailand 100 % Automotive In-Vehicle Networking and Sensors, Banking and e-Passport modules, Standard Logic Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 100 % Micro-processors, Micro-controllers, Power Management, Analog and Mixed Signal, RF devices Tianjin, China 100 % Micro-controllers, Analog and Sensors (1) Joint venture with TSMC; we are entitled to 60% of the joint ventures annual capacity. We use a large number of raw materials in our front- and back-end manufacturing processes, including silicon wafers, chemicals, gases, lead frames, substrates, molding compounds and various types of precious and other metals. Our most important raw materials are the raw, or substrate, silicon wafers we use to make our semiconductors. We purchase these wafers, which must meet exacting specifications, from a limited number of suppliers in the geographic region in which our fabrication facilities are located. At our wholly owned fabrication plants, we use raw wafers ranging from 6 inches to 8 inches in size. Our SSMC wafer fab facility, which produces 8 inch wafers, is jointly owned by TSMC and ourselves. Emerging fabrication technologies employ larger wafer sizes and, accordingly, we expect that our production requirements will in the future shift towards larger substrate wafers. We typically source our other raw materials in a similar fashion as our wafers, although our portfolio of suppliers is more diverse. Some of our suppliers provide us with materials on a just-in-time basis, which permits us to reduce our procurement costs and the negative cash flow consequences of maintaining inventories, but exposes us to potential supply chain interruptions. We purchase most of our raw materials on the basis of fixed price contracts, but generally do not commit ourselves to long-term purchase obligations, which permits us to renegotiate prices periodically. Sales, Marketing and Customers We market our products and solutions worldwide to a variety of OEMs, Original Design Manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers and distributors. We generate demand for our products by delivering product solutions to our customers, and supporting their system design-in activities by providing application architecture expertise and local field application engineering support. Our sales and marketing teams are organized into five regions, which are EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa), the Americas, Japan, South Korea and Greater China (including Asia Pacific). These sales regions 10 are responsible for managing customer relationships and creating demand for our solutions through the full ecosystem development, including our distributors and at our large number of mass market customers. Our sales and marketing strategy focuses on key defined verticals in Automotive, Mobile, Industrial and IoT and Communication Infrastructure, deepening our relationship with our top OEMs and electronic manufacturing service customers, expanding our reach to our mass market customers, startups and our distribution partners and becoming their preferred supplier, which we believe assists us in reducing sales volatility in challenging markets. We have long-standing customer relationships with most of our customers. Our 10 largest OEM end customers, some of whom are supplied by distributors, in alphabetical order, are Apple, Bosch, Continental, Denso, Delphi, Ericsson, Huawei, LG, Samsung and ZTE. We also have a strong position with our distribution partners, including our three largest, Arrow, Avnet and Nexty. Our revenue is primarily the sum of our direct sales to OEMs plus our distributors resale of NXP products. Avnet accounted for 14% of our revenue in 2019 and 14% in 2018. Arrow accounted for less than 10% of our revenue in 2019 and 10% in 2018. No other distributor accounted for greater than 10% of our revenue. With 11% of total revenue in both 2019 and 2018, Continental was the only OEM to which we had direct sales that accounted for more than 10% of revenue in 2019 and 2018. See Note 23 Segments and Geographical Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a breakdown of total revenue by segment and geographic market for the last three financial years. Research and Development We believe that our future success depends on our ability to both improve our existing products and to develop new products for both existing and new markets. We direct our research and development efforts largely to the development of new semiconductor solutions where we see significant opportunities for growth. We target applications that require stringent overall system and subsystem performance. As new and challenging applications proliferate, we believe that many of these applications will benefit from our solutions. We have assembled a global team of highly skilled semiconductor and embedded software design engineers with expertise in RF, analog, power management, interface, security and digital processing. As of December 31, 2019 , we had 8,808 employees in research and development. To outpace market growth we invest in research and development to extend or create leading market positions, with an emphasis on fast growing sizable market segments, such as ADAS, in-vehicle networks and power management, as well as Edge computing to support the successful deployment in the IoT with our cross-over processing technology, but also in emerging markets, such as massive MIMO in RF Power and mmWave for 5G. In addition, we invest a few percent of our total research and development expenditures in research activities that develop fundamental new technologies or product categories that could contribute significantly to our company growth in the future. We annually perform a fundamental review of our business portfolio and our related new product and technology development opportunities in order to decide on changes in the allocation of our research and development resources. For products targeting established markets, we evaluate our research and development expenditures based on clear business need and risk assessments. For break-through technologies and new market opportunities, we look at the strategic fit and synergies with the rest of our portfolio and the size of the potential addressable market. Overall, we allocate our research and development to maintain a healthy mix of emerging growth and mature businesses. Intellectual Property The creation and use of intellectual property is a key aspect of our strategy to differentiate ourselves in the marketplace. We seek to protect our proprietary technologies by obtaining patents, trademarks, domain names, retaining trade secrets and defending, enforcing and utilizing our intellectual property rights, where appropriate. We believe this strategy allows us to preserve the advantages of our products and technologies, and helps us to improve the return on our investment in research and development. We have a broad portfolio of close to 10,000 patent families (each patent family includes all patents and patent applications originating from the same 11 invention). To protect confidential technical information and software, we rely on copyright and trade secret law and enter into confidentiality agreements as applicable. In situations where we believe that a third party has infringed on our intellectual property, we enforce our rights through all available legal means to the extent that we determine the benefits of such actions to outweigh the costs and risks involved. We own a number of trademarks that are used in the conduct of our business. Where we consider it desirable, we develop names for our new products and secure trademark protection. Our trademarks allow us to further distinguish our company and our products and are important in our relationships with customers, suppliers, partners and end-users. While our patents, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights constitute valuable assets, we do not view any individual right or asset as material to our operations as a whole. We believe it is the combination of our proprietary technology, patents, know-how and other intellectual property rights and assets that creates an advantage for our business. In addition to obtaining our own patents and other intellectual property rights, we have entered into licensing agreements and other arrangements authorizing us to use intellectual property rights, confidential technical information, software and other technology owned by third parties. We also engage, in certain instances, in licensing and selling of certain of our technology, patents and other intellectual property rights. Competition We compete with many different semiconductor companies, including multinational companies with integrated research and development, manufacturing, sales and marketing organizations across a broad spectrum of product lines, fabless semiconductor companies, and companies that are focused on a single application market segment or standard product. Most of these competitors compete with us with respect to some, but not all, of our businesses. Our key competitors in alphabetical order include Analog Devices, Inc, Infineon Technologies AG, Maxim Integrated Products Inc., Microchip Technology Inc., Nordic Semiconductor ASA, Power Integrations Inc, Qualcomm, Inc, Renesas Electronics Corp, Silicon Laboratories, STMicroelectronics NV and Texas Instruments Incorporated. The basis on which we compete varies across end markets and geographic regions. This includes competing on the basis of our ability to timely develop new products and the underlying intellectual property and on meeting customer requirements in terms of cost, product features, quality, warranty and availability. In addition, our system solutions businesses require in-depth knowledge of a given application market in order to develop robust system solutions and qualified customer support resources. Seasonality Historically, our net revenue has typically been higher in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year, accelerating in the third and fourth quarters. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under the Litigation caption of Note 16 of our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors . Environmental Regulation The information set forth under the Environmental remediation caption of Note 16 of our notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with environmental regulation, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors . 12 Board of Directors Our Board of Directors, including their ages and positions as of February 27, 2020 are as follows: Name Age Position Richard L. Clemmer 68 Executive director and chief executive officer Sir Peter Bonfield 75 Non-Executive Director and Chairman and Member of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee and of the Boards Compensation Committee Kenneth A. Goldman 70 Non-Executive Director and Member of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee Josef Kaeser 62 Non-Executive Director and Member of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee Lena Olving 63 Non-Executive Director and Member of the Boards Compensation Committee Peter Smitham 77 Non-Executive Director, and Chair of the Boards Compensation Committee Julie Southern 60 Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Boards Audit Committee Jasmin Staiblin 49 Non-Executive Director and Member of the Boards Audit Committee Gregory L. Summe 63 Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Boards Nominating and Governance Committee Karl-Henrik Sundstrm 59 Non-Executive Director and Member of the Boards Audit Committee and the Boards Compensation Committee There are no family relationships among our directors or between any director and any of our executive officers. Richard L. Clemmer (1951, American) . Richard L. Clemmer became executive director and chief executive officer of NXP on January 1, 2009. Prior to that, he was a senior advisor to KKR & Co., Inc., a private equity firm, a position he held from May 2007 to December 2008. Mr. Clemmer previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Agere Systems Inc., an integrated circuits components company that was acquired in 2007 by LSI Logic Corporation, from October 2005 to April 2007. Mr. Clemmer is a member of the board of directors and Chairman of Privafy, Inc., a security SaaS company, and he is a member of the board of directors of NCR Corporation. Sir Peter Bonfield CBE FREng (1944, British). Sir Peter was appointed a non-executive director and as the chairman of our board of directors in August 2010. Prior to that, Sir Peter was the chairman of the supervisory board of NXP B.V. from September 29, 2006. Sir Peter served as chief executive officer and chairman of the executive committee for British Telecom plc. from 1996 to 2002 and prior to that was chairman and chief executive officer of ICL plc. (now Fujitsu Services Holdings Ltd.). Sir Peter also worked in the semiconductor industry during his tenure as a divisional director at Texas Instruments Incorporated, for whom he held a variety of senior management positions around the world. In addition, Sir Peter has served as a director of twelve large technology companies. Sir Peter currently holds a non-executive directorship at Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, is Chair of Council and Senior Pro-Chancellor at Loughborough University, Board Director at East West Institute USA and Board Mentor at CMi in London. He is Advisor to Longreach LLP in Hong Kong, Alix Partners UK LLP in London and is a Fellow of The Royal Academy of Engineering. Sir Peter is named Outstanding Director for 2019 by the Financial Times. Kenneth A. Goldman (1949, American). Mr. Goldman was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective August 6, 2010. Mr. Goldman is former chief financial officer of Yahoo!, Inc. Prior to October 2012, Mr. Goldman served as senior vice president, finance and administration, and chief financial officer of Fortinet, Inc, a provider of unified threat management solutions, from September 2007 to September 2012. From November 2006 to August 2007, Mr. Goldman served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Dexterra, Inc. From August 2000 until March 2006, Mr. Goldman served as senior vice president, finance and administration, and chief financial officer of Siebel Systems, Inc., and from December 1999 to December 2003, Mr. Goldman served on the Financial Accounting Standards Boards primary advisory group. Mr. Goldman currently serves on the board of directors of TriNet Group, Inc., GoPro, Inc., RingCentral, Inc., Zuora, Inc., and several private companies, including serving as President of Hillspire, LLC. Mr. Goldman also is a member of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) Foundation, and in 2015 was appointed to a three-year term on the Standards Advisory Group, which advises the PCAOB. Mr. Goldman was a member of board of trustees of Cornell University from 2005 to 2013 and was designated as Emeritus 13 Trustee. He was formerly a member of the Treasury Advisory Committee on the Auditing Profession, a public committee that made recommendations in September 2008 to encourage a more sustainable auditing profession. Mr. Goldman holds a B.S. in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University and an M.B.A. from the Harvard Business School. Josef Kaeser (1957, German). Mr. Kaeser was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective September 1, 2010. Mr. Kaeser is the president and chief executive officer of Siemens AG since August 2013. Before this, from May 2006 to August 2013, he was member of the managing board and chief financial officer of Siemens AG and prior to this Mr. Kaeser served as chief strategy officer for Siemens AG from 2004 to 2006 and as the chief financial officer for the mobile communications group from 2001 to 2004. Mr. Kaeser has additionally held various other positions within the Siemens group since he joined Siemens in 1980. Mr. Kaeser also serves on the board of directors of Siemens Ltd. (India), Daimler AG, and Allianz Deutschland AG. Lena Olving (1956, Swedish). Mrs. Olving was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective June 17, 2019. Mrs. Olving served as President and CEO of Mycronic AB (listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap), a Swedish high-tech company engaged in development, manufacturing and marketing of production equipment to the electronics industry. Before joining Mycronic, in July 2013, Mrs. Olving worked at Saab AB, a Defense and Security company, where she began as EVP and Chairman of Business Area Systems and Products in 2008 and continued as Deputy CEO and COO in January 2010. Her earlier career also includes various positions within Volvo Car Corporation, in total 25 years, of which 5 years as President of Volvo Cars Asia Pacific and 7 years in the Executive Management Team. Mrs. Olving is a board member of Assa Abloy AB, Investment AB Latour, Munters Group AB (all public listed), and Chairman of the Board at the Royal Swedish Opera. She is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences Business Executives Council. Mrs. Olving is also elected a member of IVA, Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences. She holds a Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering from Chalmers in Gothenburg, Sweden. In 2013 she received Gabrielsens Award awarded to the best female candidate to become chairman of the Board in a large company, listed or unlisted. In January 2018, Mrs. Olving was presented H.M. The Kings Medal of the 12th size with blue ribbon for outstanding efforts within Swedish business sector. H.M. The King's Medal (1850s) is presented to Swedish and foreign citizens for special merit and to officials of the Royal Court for long and faithful service. Peter Smitham (1942, British). Mr. Smitham was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective December 7, 2015. Mr. Smitham retired from his position as a partner of the private equity firm Permira on December 31, 2009, but until August 1, 2015, he was a member of Permira Advisers LLP, which he joined in 1985, the year the London office was founded. Mr. Smitham was the managing partner of the London office from 1994 until 1998 and led Permiras European business from 1996 until 2000. He has worked on numerous transactions focusing on technology, including Memec Group Holdings Limited, The Roxboro Group, Solartron Group, and Technology plc. Until its merger with NXP, Mr. Smitham was a director of Freescale; he joined the Freescale board in June 2007 and has been a member of the Compensation and Leadership Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Freescale board. He has a degree in Geography from Swansea University, Wales, and attended the Senior Executive Program at Stanford Business School. Julie Southern (1958, British). Mrs. Southern was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors in October 2013. Mrs. Southern was with Virgin Atlantic Limited (UK) from 2000 to May 2013. From 2010 to 2013 Mrs. Southern was chief commercial officer and from 2000 to 2010 she was chief financial officer of Virgin Atlantic. Prior to joining Virgin Atlantic, she was group finance director at Porsche Cars Great Britain and finance and operations director at W H Smith - H J Chapman & Co Ltd. Prior to that, she was a chartered accountant at Price Waterhouse Coopers. Mrs. Southern currently holds non-executive directorships at Rentokil-Initial plc, Ocado Group plc and easyJet plc, and is Chair of the respective Audit Committees. Mrs. Southern is also a member of the Remuneration Committees at ocado and easyJet. Jasmin Staiblin (1970, German). Mrs. Staiblin was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective June 17, 2019. Mrs. Staiblin served between 2013 and 2018 as CEO of Alpiq, a leading Swiss energy services provider and power producer in Europe. She successfully led the company through a major transformation in a fundamentally changing energy market. She began her career in 1997 at the ABB Group, the Swedish-Swiss global technology company, starting in ABBs group research center. From 1999 to 2005 she served in various global functions and as a member of the management team for ABBs power technologies division. She held the position of chief executive 14 officer of ABB Switzerland from 2006 to 2012. Mrs. Staiblin is a board member of Georg Fischer AG, Schaffhausen, Rolls-Royce plc, London and Zurich Insurance Group Ltd. Mrs. Staiblin studied physics and electrical engineering at the Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany and the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Sweden. She completed her studies with a degree in physics and has a Master of Science in electrical engineering. Gregory L. Summe (1 956, American). Gregory L. Summe was appointed a non-executive director of NXP in 2015 Mr. Summe is the Managing Partner of Glen Capital Partners, a Boston based hedge fund, which he founded in 2014. Mr. Summe was the managing director and vice chairman of Global Buyout at The Carlyle Group, a leading global private equity firm, from 2009 to 2014. Before joining Carlyle, he was the chairman and chief executive officer of PerkinElmer, Inc., a global leader in Health Sciences, a company he led from 1998 to May 2009. He also served as a senior advisor to Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, from 2008 to 2009. He was a director of Freescale Semiconductor from 2010 until its merger with NXP in 2015 and served as Chairman of the Freescale board from 2014 - 2015. Prior to PerkinElmer, Mr. Summe was with AlliedSignal, now Honeywell International, serving as the president of General Aviation Avionics, president of the Aerospace Engines Group and president of the Automotive Products Group. Before joining AlliedSignal, he was the general manager of Commercial Motors at General Electric and was a partner with the consulting firm of McKinsey & Company, Inc. Mr. Summe holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the University of Kentucky and the University of Cincinnati, and an M.B.A. with distinction from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He is in the Engineering Hall of Distinction at the University of Kentucky. Mr. Summe also serves on the board of directors of the State Street Corporation, and two private companies, Ohana Biosciences, and Pella Corporation. Karl-Henrik Sundstrm (1960, Swedish). Mr. Sundstrm was appointed a non-executive director of our board of directors effective June 17, 2019. Mr. Sundstrm was appointed CEO of Stora Enso in August 2014. He joined Stora Enso in August 2012 as CFO and member of the group leadership team. In June 2013, he took on the role as EVP for division Paper and Wood Products. Before joining Stora Enso, Mr. Sundstrm held the role as CFO of NXP Semiconductors N.V. (2008-2012). Before that, he held several managerial positions in Ericsson, including CFO. He is member of the board of Mlnlycke and chairman of the tax delegation for Swedish Business and Commerce and member of the board of the Marcus Wallenberg Foundation. Mr. Sundstrm participated in an advanced management program at Harvard Business School in 1997 and holds a degree in business administration, finance, and accounting from the Uppsala University, Sweden. Information about our Executive Officers The names, ages and positions as of February 27, 2020 , of our executive officers, including our chief executive officer, Mr. Clemmer, are as follows: Name Age Position Richard L. Clemmer 68 Executive director and chief executive officer Kurt Sievers 50 President Peter Kelly 63 Executive vice president and chief financial officer Steve Owen 59 Executive vice president sales & marketing David Reed 61 Executive vice president technology and operations Keith Shull 69 Executive vice president and chief human resources officer Jennifer Wuamett 54 Executive vice president and general counsel There are no family relationships among our executive officers or between any executive officer and any of our directors. Kurt Sievers (1969, German). Mr. Sievers is president and member of the management team, overseeing all business lines. He has previously managed our High Performance Mixed Signal businesses focused on the automotive application markets and the automotive safety and comfort business line and served in various positions at Philips since 1995. Peter Kelly (1957, American). Mr. Kelly is executive vice president, chief financial officer and a member of the management team. He joined NXP in March, 2011 and serves as NXPs chief financial 15 officer. Mr. Kelly has over 30 years of applicable experience in the global technology industry and has extensive financial expertise having worked in financial management positions in several other companies, including as CFO of UGI Corp. and Agere Systems Inc. Mr. Kelly also serves on the board and is Chair of the Audit Committee of Plexus, Corp. Steve Owen (1960, British). Mr. Owen is executive vice president, global sales & marketing and member of the management team. He has extensive experience in developing business internationally and served in various marketing and sales leadership positions at NXP and Philips since 1998. David Reed (1958, American). Mr. Reed is executive vice president of Technology and Operations at NXP. He joined NXP in 2015, having served as general manager at Freescale until the merger with NXP. He has 30 years of extensive international experience with global execution of fabs, assembly/test, packaging, R&D, foundries and joint ventures for Analog, Automotive, Logic and Wireless customers. He joined Freescale Semiconductor in 2012 as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing Operations. Previously he was vice president and general manager at GLOBALFOUNDRIES. He began his career at Texas Instruments in 1984 where he held multiple overseas and leadership assignments. Keith Shull (1951, American). Mr. Shull is executive vice president and chief human resources officer for NXP. He joined NXP in 2015 and has over 35 years of experience, having led global HR organizations in a range of industries worldwide, including Arrow Electronics, Visteon and Walter Energy . Jennifer Wuamett (1965, American). Mrs. Wuamett is executive vice president, general counsel, secretary of our board of directors and member of the management team, and has served in this role since September 2018. Previously, Mrs. Wuamett served as Senior Vice President and Deputy General Counsel at NXP. Prior to that, she was Freescales Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary and has served in various positions at Freescale and Motorola. Employees As of December 31, 2019 we had 29,400 full-time equivalent employees compared to 30,000 at December 31, 2018 . We have not experienced any material strikes or labor disputes in the past. A number of our employees are members of a labor union. In various countries, local law requires us to inform and consult with employee representatives on matters relating to labor conditions. We consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information Our main corporate website address is www.nxp.com. Copies of our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are available free of charge on our website within the "Investors Relations" section as soon as reasonably practicable after having been electronically filed or furnished to the SEC. All SEC filings are also available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov . The information contained on these websites as referenced is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, the Companys references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical. Historically, the relationship between supply and demand in the semiconductor industry has caused a high degree of cyclicality in the semiconductor market. Semiconductor supply is partly driven by manufacturing capacity, which in the past has demonstrated alternating periods of substantial capacity additions and periods in which no or limited capacity was added. As a general matter, semiconductor companies are more likely to add 16 capacity in periods when current or expected future demand is strong and margins are, or are expected to be, high. Investments in new capacity can result in overcapacity, which can lead to a reduction in prices and margins. In response, companies typically limit further capacity additions, eventually causing the market to be relatively undersupplied. In addition, demand for semiconductors varies, which can exacerbate the effect of supply fluctuations. As a result of this cyclicality, the semiconductor industry has in the past experienced significant downturns, such as in 1997/1998, 2001/2002 and in 2008/2009, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing life cycles of semiconductor companies products and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminishing demand for end-user products, high inventory levels, under-utilization of manufacturing capacity and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The foregoing risks have historically had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Significantly increased volatility and instability and unfavorable economic conditions may adversely affect our business. In 2008 and 2009, Europe, the United States and international markets experienced increased volatility and instability. In 2015, volatility and instability in financial markets continued following renewed investor concerns related to the economic situation in parts of the world, a decline in the growth rate of the Chinese economy, increased hostilities in the Middle East, and other world events. These, or other events, could further adversely affect the economies of the European Union, the United States and those of other countries and may exacerbate the cyclicality of our business. Among other factors, we face risks attendant to unfavorable changes related to interest rates, rates of economic growth, fiscal, monetary and trade policies of governments, tax rates and policy and changes in demand for end-user products and changes in interest rates. There is a significant risk that the global economy could fall into recession again. If economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. It is difficult for us, our customers and suppliers to forecast demand trends. We may be unable to accurately predict the extent or duration of cycles or their effect on our financial condition or result of operations and can give no assurance as to the timing, extent or duration of the current or future business cycles. A recurrent decline in demand or the failure of demand to return to prior levels could place pressure on our results of operations. The timing and extent of any changes to currently prevailing market conditions is uncertain and supply and demand may be unbalanced at any time. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive. If we fail to introduce new technologies and products in a timely manner, this could adversely affect our business. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and characterized by constant and rapid technological change, short product lifecycles, significant price erosion and evolving standards. Accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent on our ability to develop new technologies and products that are ultimately successful in the market. The costs related to the research and development necessary to develop new technologies and products are significant and any reduction of our research and development budget could harm our competitiveness. Meeting evolving industry requirements and introducing new products to the market in a timely manner and at prices that are acceptable to our customers are significant factors in determining our competitiveness and success. Commitments to develop new products must be made well in advance of any resulting sales, and technologies and standards may change during development, potentially rendering our products outdated or uncompetitive before their introduction. If we are unable to successfully develop new products, our revenue may decline substantially. Moreover, some of our competitors are well-established entities, are larger than us and have greater resources than we do. If these competitors increase the resources they devote to developing and marketing their products, we may not be able to compete effectively. Any consolidation among our competitors could enhance their product offerings and financial resources, further strengthening their competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors operate in narrow business areas relative to us, allowing them to concentrate their research and development efforts directly on products and services for those areas, which may give them a competitive advantage. As a result of these competitive pressures, we may face declining sales volumes or lower prevailing prices for our products, and we may not be able to reduce our total 17 costs in line with this declining revenue. If any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In many of the market segments in which we compete, we depend on winning selection processes, and failure to be selected could adversely affect our business in those market segments. One of our business strategies is to participate in and win competitive bid selection processes to develop products for use in our customers equipment and products. These selection processes can be lengthy and require us to incur significant design and development expenditures, with no guarantee of winning a contract or generating revenue. Failure to win new design projects and delays in developing new products with anticipated technological advances or in commencing volume shipments of these products may have an adverse effect on our business. This risk is particularly pronounced in markets where there are only a few potential customers and in the automotive market, where, due to the longer design cycles involved, failure to win a design-in could prevent access to a customer for several years. Our failure to win a sufficient number of these bids could result in reduced revenue and hurt our competitive position in future selection processes because we may not be perceived as being a technology or industry leader, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The demand for our products depends to a significant degree on the demand for our customers end products. The vast majority of our revenue is derived from sales to manufacturers in the automotive, industrial & IoT, mobile, and communication infrastructure. Demand in these markets fluctuates significantly, driven by consumer spending, consumer preferences, the development of new technologies and prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the specific products in which our semiconductors are incorporated may not be successful, or may experience price erosion or other competitive factors that affect the price manufacturers are willing to pay us. Such customers have in the past, and may in the future, vary order levels significantly from period to period, request postponements to scheduled delivery dates, modify their orders or reduce lead times. This is particularly common during periods of low demand. This can make managing our business difficult, as it limits the predictability of future revenue. It can also affect the accuracy of our financial forecasts. Furthermore, developing industry trends, including customers use of outsourcing and new and revised supply chain models, may affect our revenue, costs and working capital requirements. Additionally, a significant portion of our products is made to order. If customers do not purchase products made specifically for them, we may not be able to resell such products to other customers or may not be able to require the customers who have ordered these products to pay a cancellation fee. The foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by continued price erosion, especially after a product has been on the market. One of the results of the rapid innovation in the semiconductor industry is that pricing pressure, especially on products containing older technology, can be intense. Product life cycles are relatively short, and as a result, products tend to be replaced by more technologically advanced substitutes on a regular basis. In turn, demand for older technology falls, causing the price at which such products can be sold to drop, in some cases precipitously. In order to continue profitably supplying these products, we must reduce our production costs in line with the lower revenue we can expect to generate per unit. Usually, this must be accomplished through improvements in process technology and production efficiencies. If we cannot advance our process technologies or improve our efficiencies to a degree sufficient to maintain required margins, we will no longer be able to make a profit from the sale of these products. Moreover, we may not be able to cease production of such products, either due to contractual obligations or for customer relationship reasons, and as a result may be required to bear a loss on such products. We cannot guarantee that competition in our core product markets will not lead to price erosion, lower revenue or lower margins in the future. Should reductions in our manufacturing costs fail to keep pace with reductions in market prices for the products we sell, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets represent a significant portion of our total assets, and we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of an acquisition. As a result of our acquisition of Marvells Wireless WiFi Connectivity Business Unit, Bluetooth technology portfolio and related assets in 2019, we recognized goodwill of $1.1 billion and intangible assets of $0.5 billion. As a result of our acquisition of Freescale in 2015, we recognized goodwill of $7.4 billion and intangible assets of $8.5 billion. We review our goodwill and other intangible assets balance for impairment upon any indication of a potential impairment, and in the case of goodwill, at a minimum of once a year. Impairment may result from, among other things, a sustained decrease in share price, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including changes that restrict the activities of or affect the products and services we sell, challenges to the validity of certain registered intellectual property, reduced sales of certain products incorporating intellectual property and a variety of other factors. The amount of any quantified impairment must be expensed immediately as a charge to results of operations. Depending on future circumstances, it is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination of impairment of goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and stockholders equity. As our business is global, we need to comply with laws and regulations in countries across the world and are exposed to international business risks that could adversely affect our business. We operate globally, with manufacturing, assembly and testing facilities in several continents, and we market our products globally. As a result, we are subject to environmental, labor and health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate. We are also required to obtain environmental permits and other authorizations or licenses from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. In the jurisdictions where we operate, we need to comply with differing standards and varying practices of regulatory, tax, judicial and administrative bodies. In addition, the business environment is also subject to many economic and political uncertainties, including the following international business risks: negative economic developments in economies around the world and the instability of governments and international trade arrangements, such as the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, the sovereign debt crisis in certain European countries and the increase of barriers to international trade, such as the recent imposition of tariffs on imports by the United States and China; social and political instability in a number of countries around the world, including continued hostilities and civil unrest in the Middle East. The instability may have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operations via our customers and volatility in energy prices and the financial markets; potential terrorist attacks; epidemics and pandemics, such as the recent coronavirus outbreak, which may adversely affect our workforce, as well as our suppliers and customers, in particular in Asia; adverse changes in governmental policies, especially those affecting trade and inv estment; our customers or other groups of stakeholders might impose requirements that are more stringent than the laws in the countries in which we are active; volatility in foreign currency exchange rates, in particular with respect to the U.S. dollar, and transfer restrictions, in particular in China; an d threats that our operations or property could be subject to nationalization and expropriation. No assurance can be given that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with the laws and regulations to which we are subject or that we have obtained or will obtain the permits and other authorizations or licenses that we need. If we violate or fail to comply with laws, regulations, permits and other authorizations or licenses, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. Furthermore, if one or more of our customers are sanctioned by regulators for non-compliance with laws and regulations, we could experience a decrease in demand for our products. For example, import and export regulations, such as the U.S. 19 Export Administration Regulations administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce, are complex, change frequently, have generally become more stringent over time and have intensified under the current U.S. administration. If our customers or suppliers fail to comply with these regulations, we may be required to suspend activities with these customers or suppliers, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or to remedy violations of, these regulations. In this case, or if any of the international business risks were to materialize or become worse, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, further increasing legal and financial compliance costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure. Interruptions in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology applications, systems and networks to operate our business. The reliability and security of our information technology infrastructure and software, and our ability to expand and continually update technologies in response to our changing needs is critical to our business. Any significant interruption in our business applications, systems or networks, including but not limited to new system implementations, computer viruses, cyberattacks, security breaches, facility issues or energy blackouts could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our computer systems and networks are subject to attempted security breaches and other cybersecurity incidents, which, if successful, could impact our business. We have, from time to time, experienced cyber-attacks attempting to obtain access to our computer systems and networks. Such incidents, whether or not successful, could result in the misappropriation of our proprietary information and technology, the compromise of personal and confidential information of our employees, customers or suppliers or interrupt our business. For instance, in January 2020, we became aware of a compromise of certain of our systems. We are taking steps to identify the malicious activity and are implementing remedial measures to increase the security of our systems and networks to respond to evolving threats and new information. As of the date of this filing, we do not believe that this IT system compromise has resulted in a material adverse effect on our business or any material damage to us. However, the investigation is ongoing, and we are continuing to evaluate the amount and type of data compromised. There can be no assurance that this or any other breach or incident will not have a material impact on our operations and financial results in the future. In the current environment, there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance, and human or technological error. Computer hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services, and systems, and those of customers, suppliers, and some of those attempts may be successful. Such breaches could result in, for example, unauthorized access to, disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of our, our customer, or other third party data or systems, theft of sensitive or confidential data including personal information and intellectual property, system disruptions, and denial of service. In the event of such breaches, we, our customers or other third parties could be exposed to potential liability, litigation, and regulatory action, as well as the loss of existing or potential customers, damage to our reputation, and other financial loss. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could be significant. As these threats continue to develop and grow, we have been adapting our security measures and we continue to increase the amount we allocate to implement, maintain and/or update security systems to protect data and infrastructure. As a global enterprise, we could also be impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, privacy and data protection. Additionally, cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events resulting in disruptions to or failures in power, information technology, communication systems or other critical infrastructure could result in interruptions or delays to us, our customers, or other third party operations or services, financial loss, potential liability, and damage our reputation and affect our relationships with our customers and suppliers. 20 In addition, we may be subject to theft, loss, or misuse of personal data about our employees, customers, or other third parties, which could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business could result in significantly increased business and security costs or costs related to defending legal claims. Global privacy legislation, enforcement, and policy activity in this area are rapidly expanding and creating a complex regulatory compliance environment. Costs to comply with and implement these privacy-related and data protection measures could be significant. In addition, even our inadvertent failure to comply with federal, state, or international privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others. In difficult market conditions, our high fixed costs combined with low revenue may negatively affect our results of operations. The semiconductor industry is characterized by high fixed costs and, notwithstanding our utilization of third-party manufacturing capacity, most of our production requirements are met by our own manufacturing facilities. In less favorable industry environments, like we faced in the second half in 2011, we are generally faced with a decline in the utilization rates of our manufacturing facilities due to decreases in demand for our products. During such periods, our fabrication plants could operate at lower loading level, while the fixed costs associated with the full capacity continue to be incurred, resulting in lower gross profit. The semiconductor industry is capital intensive and if we are unable to invest the necessary capital to operate and grow our business, we may not remain competitive. To remain competitive, we must constantly improve our facilities and process technologies and carry out extensive research and development, all of which requires investment of significant amounts of capital. This risk is magnified by the indebtedness we currently have, since we are required to use a portion of our cash flow to service that debt. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or raise sufficient capital to meet both our debt service and capital investment requirements, or if we are unable to raise required capital on favorable terms when needed, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely to a significant extent on proprietary intellectual property. We may not be able to protect this intellectual property against improper use by our competitors or others. Our success and future revenue growth depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technology, our products, our proprietary designs and fabrication processes, and other intellectual property against misappropriation by others. We primarily rely on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure agreements and other methods, to protect our intellectual property. We may have difficulty obtaining patents and other intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary products, technology and intellectual property, and the patents and other intellectual property rights we receive may be insufficient to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. We may not obtain patent protection or secure other intellectual property rights in all the countries in which we operate, and under the laws of such countries, patents and other intellectual property rights may be or become unavailable or limited in scope. Even if new patents are issued, the claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to effectively protect our proprietary technology, processes and other intellectual property. In addition, any of our existing patents, and any future patents issued to us may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. The protection offered by intellectual property rights may be inadequate or weakened for reasons or circumstances that are out of our control. Further, our proprietary technology, designs and processes and other intellectual property may be vulnerable to disclosure or misappropriation by employees, contractors and other persons. It is possible that competitors or other unauthorized third parties may obtain, copy, use or disclose our proprietary technologies, our products, designs, processes and other intellectual property despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property. While we hold a significant number of patents, there can be no assurances that additional patents will be issued or that any rights granted under our patents will provide meaningful protection against misappropriation of our intellectual property. Our competitors may also be able to develop similar technology independently or design around our patents. We may not have or pursue patents or pending applications in all the countries in which we operate corresponding to all of our primary patents and applications. Even if patents are granted, effective enforcement in some countries may not be available. In particular, intellectual property rights are difficult to enforce in countries where the application and enforcement of the laws governing such rights may not have reached the same level as compared to other jurisdictions where we operate. Consequently, operating in some countries may 21 subject us to an increased risk that unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise use our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our suppliers or other parties with whom we engage. There is no assurance that we will be able to protect our intellectual property rights or have adequate legal recourse in the event that we seek legal or judicial enforcement of our intellectual property rights under the laws of such countries. Any inability on our part to adequately protect our intellectual property may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become party to intellectual property claims or litigation that could cause us to incur substantial costs, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. We have from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications alleging possible infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Further, we may become involved in costly litigation brought against us regarding patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. If any such claims are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under the third partys intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any or all of the necessary licenses on satisfactory terms, if at all. In the event that we cannot obtain or take the view that we dont need a license, these parties may file lawsuits against us seeking damages (and potentially treble damages in the United States) or an injunction against the sale of our products that incorporate allegedly infringed intellectual property or against the operation of our business as presently conducted. Such lawsuits, if successful, could result in an increase in the costs of selling certain of our products, our having to partially or completely redesign our products or stop the sale of some of our products and could cause damage to our reputation. Any litigation could require significant financial and management resources regardless of the merits or outcome, and we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any litigation or that our intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will not be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. The award of damages, including material royalty payments, or the entry of an injunction against the manufacture and sale of some or all of our products, could affect our ability to compete or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we may rely on strategic partnerships, joint ventures and alliances for manufacturing and research and development. However, we often do not control these partnerships and joint ventures, and actions taken by any of our partners or the termination of these partnerships or joint ventures could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy, we have historically entered into a number of long-term strategic partnerships with other leading industry participants, and may do so again in the future. For example, we currently participate in a joint venture with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited (TSMC) called Systems on Silicon Manufacturing Company Pte. Ltd. (SSMC). If any of our strategic partners in alliances we currently engage with or may engage with in the future were to encounter financial difficulties or change their business strategies, they may no longer be able or willing to participate in these groups or alliances, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of current or future alliances, we may have certain obligations, including funding obligations or take or pay obligations. For example, we have made certain commitments to SSMC, in which we have a 61.2% ownership share, whereby we are obligated to make cash payments to SSMC should we fail to utilize, and TSMC does not utilize, an agreed upon percentage of the total available capacity at SSMCs fabrication facilities if overall SSMC utilization levels drop below a fixed proportion of the total available capacity. We may from time to time desire to exit certain product lines or businesses, or to restructure our operations, but may not be successful in doing so. From time to time, we may decide to divest certain product lines and businesses or restructure our operations, including through the contribution of assets to joint ventures. We have, in recent years, exited several of our product lines and businesses, and we have closed several of our manufacturing and research facilities. We may continue to do so in the future. However, our ability to successfully exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, if we are seeking a buyer for a particular business line, none may be available, or we may not be successful in negotiating satisfactory terms with prospective buyers. In addition, we may face internal obstacles 22 to our efforts. In particular, several of our operations and facilities are subject to collective bargaining agreements and social plans or require us to consult with our employee representatives, such as work councils, which may prevent or complicate our efforts to sell or restructure our businesses. In some cases, particularly with respect to our European operations, there may be laws or other legal impediments affecting our ability to carry out such sales or restructuring. If we are unable to exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if a divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. We may from time to time restructure parts of our organization. Any such restructuring may impact customer satisfaction and the costs of implementation may be difficult to predict. Between 2008 and 2011, we executed a redesign program and, in 2013 we executed a restructuring initiative designed to improve operational efficiency and to competitively position the company for sustainable growth. In 2015, we began a restructuring initiative to prepare for and implement the integration of Freescale into our existing businesses. We plan to continue to restructure and make changes to parts of the processes in our organization. Furthermore, if the global economy remains volatile or if the global economy reenters a recession, our revenues could decline, and we may be forced to take additional cost savings steps that could result in additional charges and materially affect our business. The costs of implementing any restructurings, changes or cost savings steps may differ from our estimates and any negative impacts on our revenues or otherwise of such restructurings, changes or steps, such as situations in which customer satisfaction is negatively impacted, may be larger than originally estimated. If we fail to extend or renegotiate our collective bargaining agreements and social plans with our labor unions as they expire from time to time, if regular or statutory consultation processes with employee representatives such as works councils fail or are delayed, or if our unionized employees were to engage in a strike or other work stoppage, our business and operating results could be materially harmed. We are a party to collective bargaining agreements and social plans with our labor unions. We are also required to consult with our employee representatives, such as works councils, on items such as restructurings, acquisitions and divestitures. Although we believe that our relations with our employees, employee representatives and unions are satisfactory, no assurance can be given that we will be able to successfully extend or renegotiate these agreements as they expire from time to time or to conclude the consultation processes in a timely and favorable way. The impact of future negotiations and consultation processes with employee representatives could have a material impact on our financial results. Also, if we fail to extend or renegotiate our labor agreements and social plans, if significant disputes with our unions arise, or if our unionized workers engage in a strike or other work stoppage, we could incur higher ongoing labor costs or experience a significant disruption of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict. Our working capital needs are difficult to predict and may fluctuate. The comparatively long period between the time at which we commence development of a product and the time at which it may be delivered to a customer leads to high inventory and work-in-progress levels. The volatility of our customers own businesses and the time required to manufacture products also makes it difficult to manage inventory levels and requires us to stockpile products across many different specifications. Our business may be adversely affected by costs relating to product defects, and we could be faced with product liability and warranty claims. We make highly complex electronic components and, accordingly, there is a risk that defects may occur in any of our products. Such defects can give rise to significant costs, including expenses relating to recalling products, replacing defective items, writing down defective inventory and loss of potential sales. In addition, the occurrence of such defects may give rise to product liability and warranty claims, including liability for damages caused by such defects. If we release defective products into the market, our reputation could suffer and we may lose sales opportunities and incur liability for damages. Moreover, since the cost of replacing defective 23 semiconductor devices is often much higher than the value of the devices themselves, we may at times face damage claims from customers in excess of the amounts they pay us for our products, including consequential damages. We also face exposure to potential liability resulting from the fact that our customers typically integrate the semiconductors we sell into numerous consumer products, which are then sold into the marketplace. We are exposed to product liability claims if our semiconductors or the consumer products based on them malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence that our products caused the damage in question, and such claims could result in significant costs and expenses relating to attorneys fees and damages. In addition, our customers may recall their products if they prove to be defective or make compensatory payments in accordance with industry or business practice or in order to maintain good customer relationships. If such a recall or payment is caused by a defect in one of our products, our customers may seek to recover all or a portion of their losses from us. If any of these risks materialize, our reputation would be harmed and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business has suffered, and could in the future suffer, from manufacturing problems. We manufacture, in our own factories as well as with third parties, our products using processes that are highly complex, require advanced and costly equipment and must continuously be modified to improve yields and performance. Difficulties in the production process can reduce yields or interrupt production, and, as a result of such problems, we may on occasion not be able to deliver products or do so in a timely or cost-effective or competitive manner. As the complexity of both our products and our fabrication processes has become more advanced, manufacturing tolerances have been reduced and requirements for precision have become more demanding. As is common in the semiconductor industry, we have in the past experienced manufacturing difficulties that have given rise to delays in delivery and quality control problems. There can be no assurance that any such occurrence in the future would not materially harm our results of operations. Further, we may suffer disruptions in our manufacturing operations, either due to production difficulties such as those described above or as a result of external factors beyond our control. We may, in the future, experience manufacturing difficulties or permanent or temporary loss of manufacturing capacity due to the preceding or other risks. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on the timely supply of equipment and materials and could suffer if suppliers fail to meet their delivery obligations or raise prices. Certain equipment and materials needed in our manufacturing operations are only available from a limited number of suppliers. Our manufacturing operations depend on deliveries of equipment and materials in a timely manner and, in some cases, on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit the amounts supplied to us or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Supply disruptions may also occur due to shortages in critical materials, such as silicon wafers or specialized chemicals. Because the equipment that we purchase is complex, it is frequently difficult or impossible for us to substitute one piece of equipment for another or replace one type of material with another. A failure by our suppliers to deliver our requirements could result in disruptions to our manufacturing operations. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of quality equipment or materials in a timely manner or if there are significant increases in the costs of equipment or materials. Failure of our third party suppliers to perform could adversely affect our ability to exploit growth opportunities. We currently use outside suppliers for a portion of our manufacturing capacity. Outsourcing our production presents a number of risks. If our outside suppliers are unable to satisfy our demand, or experience manufacturing difficulties, delays or reduced yields, our results of operations and ability to satisfy customer demand could suffer. In addition, purchasing rather than manufacturing these products may adversely affect our gross profit margin if the purchase costs of these products are higher than our own manufacturing costs would have been. Prices for foundry products also vary depending on capacity utilization rates at our suppliers, quantities demanded, product technology and geometry. Furthermore, these outsourcing costs can vary materially from quarter to quarter and, in cases of industry shortages, they can increase significantly, negatively affecting our gross profit. 24 Loss of our key management and other personnel, or an inability to attract such management and other personnel, could affect our business. We depend on our key management to run our business and on our senior engineers to develop new products and technologies. Our success will depend on the continued service of these individuals. Although we have several share based compensation plans in place, we cannot be sure that these plans will help us in our ability to retain key personnel, especially considering that the stock options under some of our plans become exercisable upon a change of control (in particular, when a third party, or third parties acting in concert, obtains, whether directly or indirectly, control of us). The loss of any of our key personnel, whether due to departures, death, ill health or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The market for qualified employees, including skilled engineers and other individuals with the required technical expertise to succeed in our business, is highly competitive and the loss of qualified employees or an inability to attract, retain and motivate the additional highly skilled employees required for the operation and expansion of our business could hinder our ability to successfully conduct research activities or develop marketable products. The foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business. Disruptions in our relationships with any one of our key customers could adversely affect our business. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from our top customers, including our distributors. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to generate similar levels of revenue from our largest customers in the future. If one or more of these customers substantially reduce their purchases from us, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We receive subsidies and grants in certain countries, and a reduction in the amount of governmental funding available to us or demands for repayment could increase our costs and affect our results of operations. As is the case with other large semiconductor companies, we receive subsidies and grants from governments in some countries. These programs are subject to periodic review by the relevant governments, and if any of these programs are curtailed or discontinued, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the availability of government funding is outside our control, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to benefit from government support or that sufficient alternative funding will be available if we lose such support. Moreover, if we terminate any activities or operations, including strategic alliances or joint ventures, we may face adverse actions from the local governmental agencies providing such subsidies to us. In particular, such government agencies could seek to recover such subsidies from us and they could cancel or reduce other subsidies we receive from them. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal proceedings covering a range of matters are pending in various jurisdictions. Due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, it is difficult to predict the final outcome. An adverse outcome might affect our results of operations. We and certain of our businesses are involved as plaintiffs or defendants in legal proceedings in various matters. For example, we are involved in legal proceedings claiming personal injuries to the children of former employees as a result of employees alleged exposure to chemicals used in semiconductor manufacturing clean room environments operated by us or our former parent companies, Philips and Motorola. Furthermore, because we continue to utilize these clean rooms, we may become subject to future claims alleging personal injury that may lead to additional liability. A judgment against us or material defense cost could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to a variety of financial risks, including currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, commodity price risk, credit risk and other non-insured risks, which may have an adverse effect on our financial results. We are a global company and, as a direct consequence, movements in the financial markets may impact our financial results. We are exposed to a variety of financial risks, including currency fluctuations, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, commodity price risk and credit risk and other non-insured risks. We have euro-denominated assets and liabilities and, since our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, the impact of currency translation adjustments to such assets and liabilities may have a negative effect on our stockholders equity. We continue to hold or convert a part of our cash in euros as a hedge for euro expenses and euro interest payments. We are 25 exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates when we convert U.S. dollars to euro. We enter into diverse financial transactions with several counterparties to mitigate our currency risk. We only use derivative instruments for hedging purposes. We are also a purchaser of certain base metals, precious metals, chemicals and energy used in the manufacturing process of our products, the prices of which can be volatile. Credit risk represents the loss that would be recognized at the reporting date if counterparties failed to perform upon their agreed payment obligations. Credit risk is present within our trade receivables. Such exposure is reduced through ongoing credit evaluations of the financial conditions of our customers and by adjusting payment terms and credit limits when appropriate. We invest available cash and cash equivalents with various financial institutions and are in that respect exposed to credit risk with these counterparties. We actively manage concentration risk on a daily basis adhering to a treasury management policy. We seek to limit the financial institutions with which we enter into financial transactions, such as depositing cash, to those with a strong credit rating wherever possible. If we are unable to successfully manage these risks, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The impact of a negative performance of financial markets and demographic trends on our defined benefit pension liabilities and costs cannot be predicted. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans in a number of countries and a significant number of our employees are covered by our defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2019, we had recognized a net accrued benefit liability of $462 million, representing the unfunded benefit obligations of our defined pension plans. The funding status and the liabilities and costs of maintaining these defined benefit pension plans may be impacted by financial market developments. For example, the accounting for such plans requires determining discount rates, expected rates of compensation and expected returns on plan assets, and any changes in these variables can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligations and net periodic pension costs. Negative performance of the financial markets could also have a material impact on funding requirements and net periodic pension costs. Our defined benefit pension plans may also be subject to demographic trends. Accordingly, our costs to meet pension liabilities going forward may be significantly higher than they are today, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. Future changes to Dutch, U.S. and other foreign tax laws could adversely affect us. The European Commission, U.S. Congress and Treasury Department, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development, and other government agencies in jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business have had an extended focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, particularly payments made between affiliates from a jurisdiction with high tax rates to a jurisdiction with lower tax rates. As a result, the tax laws in the European Union, U.S. and other countries in which we and our affiliates do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect us and our affiliates. Recent examples include the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Developments initiatives to revise profit allocation and nexus rules to allocate more taxing rights to countries where companies have their markets and to establish a minimum tax rate on a global basis. These initiatives include recommendations and proposals that, if enacted in countries in which we and our affiliates do business, could adversely affect us and our affiliates. We are exposed to a number of different tax uncertainties, which could have an impact on our results. We are required to pay taxes in multiple jurisdictions. We determine the taxes we are required to pay based on our interpretation of the applicable tax laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. We may be subject to unfavorable changes in the respective tax laws and regulations to which we are subject. Tax controls, audits, change in controls and changes in tax laws or regulations or the interpretation given to them may expose us to negative tax consequences, including interest payments and potentially penalties. We have issued transfer-pricing directives in the areas of goods, services and financing, which are in accordance with the Guidelines of the Organization of Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). As transfer pricing has a cross border effect, the focus of local tax authorities on implemented transfer pricing procedures in a country may have an impact on results in another country. 26 Transfer pricing uncertainties can also result from disputes with local tax authorities about transfer pricing of internal deliveries of goods and services or related to financing, acquisitions and divestments, the use of tax credits and permanent establishments, and tax losses carried forward. These uncertainties may have a significant impact on local tax results. We also have various tax assets resulting from acquisitions. Tax assets can also result from the generation of tax losses in certain legal entities. Tax authorities may challenge these tax assets. In addition, the value of the tax assets resulting from tax losses carried forward depends on having sufficient taxable profits in the future. Additionally, in December of 2017, the United States enacted a budget reconciliation act amending the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) and, in 2018, the U.S. Treasury Department issued regulations to clarify certain provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act contains provisions affecting the tax treatment of both U.S. companies (such as certain of our subsidiaries) and non-U.S. companies that could materially affect us. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act includes provisions that reduce the U.S. corporate tax rate, impose a base erosion minimum tax on income of a U.S. corporation determined without regard to certain otherwise deductible payments made to certain foreign affiliates, impose a global intangible low-income tax on foreign earnings made by U.S. corporations foreign subsidiaries, and impose a one-time transition tax on certain historic earnings and profits of U.S.-owned foreign subsidiaries. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act also includes provisions that provide a deduction for certain foreign-derived intangible income. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued temporary and proposed regulations providing guidance on the application of many of the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. However, there may continue to be a substantial delay before all such regulations are promulgated and/or finalized, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. It is also possible that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the effect of which cannot be predicted. We may not be able to maintain a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future, because of, among other things, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. Additionally, the tax laws of the Netherlands, the U.S., and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. There may from time to time exist deficiencies in our internal control systems that could adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our periodic reporting. We are required to establish and periodically assess the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Despite the compliance procedures that we have adopted to ensure internal control over financial controls, there may from time to time exist deficiencies in our internal control systems that could adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our periodic reporting. Our periodic reporting is the basis of investors and other market professionals understanding of our businesses. Imperfections in our periodic reporting could create uncertainty regarding the reliability of our results of operations and financial results, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our reputation or share price. Environmental laws and regulations expose us to liability and compliance with these laws and regulations, and any such liability may adversely affect our business. We are subject to many environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in each jurisdiction in which we operate, which govern, among other things, emissions of pollutants into the air, wastewater discharges, the use and handling of hazardous substances, waste disposal, the investigation and remediation of soil and ground water contamination and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. We cannot assure you that we have been or will be at all times in complete compliance with such laws, regulations and permits. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. As with other companies engaged in similar activities or that own or operate real property, we face inherent risks of environmental liability at our current and historical manufacturing facilities. Certain environmental laws impose strict, and in certain circumstances, joint and several liability on current or previous owners or operators of real property for the cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous 27 substances as well as liability for related damages to natural resources. Certain of these laws also assess liability on persons who arrange for hazardous substances to be sent to disposal or treatment facilities when such facilities are found to be contaminated. While we do not expect that any contamination currently known to us will have a material adverse effect on our business, we cannot assure you that this is the case or that we will not discover new facts or conditions or that environmental laws or the enforcement of such laws will not change such that our liabilities would be increased significantly. In addition, we could also be held liable for consequences arising out of human exposure to hazardous substances or other environmental damage. In summary, we cannot assure you that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, or our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, regulated materials, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Scientific examination of, political attention to and rules and regulations on issues surrounding the existence and extent of climate change may result in an increase in the cost of production due to increase in the prices of energy and introduction of energy or carbon tax. A variety of regulatory developments have been introduced that focus on restricting or managing the emission of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases. Enterprises may need to purchase at higher costs new equipment or raw materials with lower carbon footprints. Environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify product designs, or incur expenses. New materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may become subject to regulation. These developments and further legislation that is likely to be enacted could affect our operations negatively. Changes in environmental regulations could increase our production and operational costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Certain natural disasters, such as flooding, large earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, may negatively impact our business. There is increasing concern that climate change is occurring and may cause a rising number of natural disasters. Environmental and other disasters, such as flooding, large earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or nuclear or other disasters, or a combination thereof may negatively impact our business. If flooding, a large earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster were to directly damage, destroy or disrupt our manufacturing facilities, it could disrupt our operations, delay new production and shipments of existing inventory or result in costly repairs, replacements or other costs, all of which would negatively impact our business. Even if our manufacturing facilities are not directly damaged, a large natural disaster may result in disruptions in distribution channels or supply chains and significant increases in the prices of raw materials used for our manufacturing process. For instance, the nuclear incident following the tsunami in Japan in 2011 impacted the supply chains of our customers and suppliers. Furthermore, any disaster affecting our customers (or their respective customers) may significantly negatively impact the demand for our products and our revenues. The impact of any such natural disasters depends on the specific geographic circumstances but could be significant, as some of our factories are located in areas with known earthquake fault zones, flood or storm risks, including but not limited to Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia or Thailand. There is increasing concern that climate change is occurring that may cause a rising number of natural disasters with potentially dramatic effects on human activity. We cannot predict the economic impact, if any, of natural disasters or climate change. The price of our common stock historically has been volatile. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market price for our common stock has varied between a high of $129.50 on December 26, 2019 and a low of $71.56 on January 2, 2019 in the twelve-month period ending on December 31, 2019 . The market price of our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to significant price and volume fluctuations for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section, changes in our dividend or share repurchase policies, or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors, peer companies or suppliers regarding their own performance, or announcements by our competitors of significant contracts, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, joint marketing relationships or capital commitments, the passage of legislation or other regulatory developments affecting us or our industry, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. In the past, following periods of 28 market volatility, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. We may have fluctuations in the amount and frequency of our stock repurchases. The amount, timing, and execution of our stock repurchases may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposessuch as investing in our business, including operational spending, capital spending, and acquisitions, and returning cash to our stockholders as dividend paymentsand because of changes in cash flows, tax laws, and the market price of our common stock. Future sales of our shares of common stock could depress the market price of our outstanding shares of common stock. The market price of our shares of common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock in connection with acquisitions and other investments. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with any such transaction could constitute a material portion of our then outstanding common stock. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. Our board of directors has adopted a dividend policy pursuant to which we currently pay a cash dividend on our ordinary shares on a quarterly basis. The declaration and payment of any dividend is subject to the approval of our board and our dividend may be discontinued or reduced at any time. There can be no assurance that we will declare cash dividends in the future in any particular amounts, or at all. Future dividends, if any, and their timing and amount, may be affected by, among other factors: managements views on potential future capital requirements for strategic transactions, including acquisitions; earnings levels; contractual restrictions; cash position and overall financial condition; and changes to our business model. The payment of cash dividends is restricted by applicable law, contractual restrictions and our corporate structure. Our actual operating results may differ significantly from our guidance. From time to time, we release guidance regarding our future performance that represents our managements estimates as of the date of release. This guidance, which consists of forward-looking statements, is prepared by our management and is qualified by, and subject to, the assumptions and the other information contained or referred to in such release and the factors described under Forward-Looking Statements. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent expert or outside party compiles, reviews or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Our guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, is inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to represent that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. The principal reason that we release this data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. 29 Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance and the variations may be material. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future the data is forecasted. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy, or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report could result in the actual operating results being different than the guidance, and such differences may be adverse and material. Risks related to our corporate structure United States civil liabilities may not be enforceable against us. We are incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands and substantial portions of our assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain members of our board, our officers and certain experts named herein reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon us or such other persons residing outside the United States, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. laws. In the absence of an applicable treaty for the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters to which the United States and the Netherlands are a party, a judgment obtained against the Company in the courts of the United States, whether or not predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws, including a judgment predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities law or securities laws of any State or territory within the United States, will not be directly enforceable in the Netherlands. In order to obtain a judgment which is enforceable in the Netherlands, the claim must be relitigated before a competent court of the Netherlands; the relevant Netherlands court has discretion to attach such weight to a judgment of the courts of the United States as it deems appropriate; based on case law, the courts of the Netherlands may be expected to recognize and grant permission for enforcement of a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction in the United States without re-examination or relitigation of the substantive matters adjudicated thereby, provided that (i) the relevant court in the United States had jurisdiction in the matter in accordance with standards which are generally accepted internationally; (ii) the proceedings before that court complied with principles of proper procedure; (iii) recognition and/or enforcement of that judgment does not conflict with the public policy of the Netherlands; and (iv) recognition and/or enforcement of that judgment is not irreconcilable with a decision of a Dutch court rendered between the same parties or with an earlier decision of a foreign court rendered between the same parties in a dispute that is about the same subject matter and that is based on the same cause, provided that earlier decision can be recognized in the Netherlands. Based on the foregoing, there can be no assurance that U.S. investors will be able to enforce against us or members of our board of directors, officers or certain experts named herein who are residents of the Netherlands or countries other than the United States any judgments obtained in U.S. courts in civil and commercial matters. In addition, there is doubt as to whether a Dutch court would impose civil liability on us, the members of our board of directors, our officers or certain experts named herein in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in the Netherlands against us or such members, officers or experts, respectively. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability. The rights of our stockholders may be different from the rights of stockholders governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. We are a Dutch public company with limited liability (naamloze vennootschap) . Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of association and by the laws governing companies incorporated in the Netherlands. 30 The rights of stockholders and the responsibilities of members of our board of directors may be different from the rights and obligations of stockholders in companies governed by the laws of U.S. jurisdictions. In the performance of its duties, our board of directors is required by Dutch law to consider the interests of our company, its stockholders, its employees and other stakeholders, in all cases with due observation of the principles of reasonableness and fairness. It is possible that some of these parties will have interests that are different from, or in addition to, your interests as a stockholder. See Part III, Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance . Risks related to our indebtedness Our debt obligations expose us to risks that could adversely affect our financial condition, which could adversely affect our results of operations. As of December 31, 2019, we had outstanding indebtedness with an aggregate principal amount of $7,400 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on our business by: increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates in the event we have borrowings under our $1,500 million revolving credit facility agreement (the RCF Agreement) because loans under the RCF Agreement bear interest at a variable rate; making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness and any failure to comply with the obligations of any our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event default under the indentures governing our notes and agreements governing other indebtedness; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to obtain additional financial for working capital, capital expenditures, restructurings, product development, research and development, debt service requirements, investments, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged and who therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may still incur significantly more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described above and affect our ability to service and repay our debt. If we do not comply with the covenants in our debt agreements or fail to generate sufficient cash to service and repay our debt, it could adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. The RCF Agreement and the indentures governing our unsecured notes or any other debt arrangements that we may have require us to comply with various covenants. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could terminate commitments to lend and cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately, which in turn could result in cross defaults under our other debt instruments. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under all of our outstanding debt instruments if some or all of these instruments are accelerated upon an event of default. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings under the RCF Agreement or other sources may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to repay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs, including our working capital and capital expenditure requirements, and we may be forced 31 to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or operations, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance our indebtedness or reduce or delay capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain enough capital to service our debt and fund our planned capital expenditures and business plan. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The rating of our debt by major rating agencies may further improve or deteriorate, which could affect our additional borrowing capacity and financing costs. The major debt rating agencies routinely evaluate our debt. These ratings are based on current information furnished to the ratings agencies by us and information obtained by the ratings agencies from other sources. An explanation of the significance of such rating may be obtained from such rating agency. There can be no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agencys judgment, circumstances so warrant. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, could affect our market value and/or increase our corporate borrowing costs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties NXP uses 100 sites in 32 countries with 11.2 million square feet of total owned and leased building space of which 9.7 million square feet is owned property. The following table sets out our principal real property holdings as of December 31, 2019 : Location Use Owned/leased Building space (square feet) Eindhoven, the Netherlands Headquarters Leased 163,188 Nijmegen, the Netherlands Manufacturing Owned 1,515,550 Singapore (SSMC) * Manufacturing Owned 971,936 Bangkok, Thailand Manufacturing Owned 547,882 Kaohsiung, Taiwan Manufacturing Owned 636,400 Tianjin, China Manufacturing Owned 447,624 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Manufacturing Owned 828,858 Chandler, United States Manufacturing Owned 1,173,196 Austin (Oak Hill), United States Manufacturing Owned 1,511,861 Austin (Ed Bluestein), United States Manufacturing Owned 1,158,731 * Joint venture between TSMC and NXP. 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings The information set forth under the Litigation and Environmental Remediation captions of Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference. For additional discussion of certain risks associated with legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors . Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. Part II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The shares of common stock of the Company are listed on the stock market of Nasdaq in New York under the ticker symbol NXPI. On February 20, 2020 there were 12 shareholders of record and 393,191 beneficial shareholders of our common stock. Dividends Per Common Share The following table presents the quarterly dividends on our common stock for the periods indicated: 2019 2018 First Quarter 0.250 - Second Quarter 0.250 - Third Quarter 0.375 0.250 Fourth Quarter 0.375 0.250 Equity Compensation Plan Information Information regarding our equity compensation plans, including both stockholder approved plans and non-stockholder approved plans, will be contained in our Proxy Statement for our 2020 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information and is incorporated by reference into this report. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Effective July 26, 2018, the board of directors of NXP (the Board ), as authorized by the 2018 annual general meeting of shareholders, authorized the repurchase of $5 billion of the Companys ordinary shares over a period of 18 months (the 2018 Share Repurchase Program) . In October 2018, the board of directors of NXP increased the repurchase authorization under the 2018 Share Repurchase Program up to a maximum of 20% of issued share capital (approximately 69 million shares). The 2018 Share Repurchase Program was completed in July 2019, and a total of 69 million shares were repurchased under this program. I n November 2019, the Board, as authorized by the 2019 annual general meeting of shareholders, authorized the repurchase of $2 billion of shares (the 2019 Share Repurchase Program). In addition, the Board approved the purchase of shares from participants in the Company's equity programs who trade shares as trade for tax. This authorization will remain in effect until terminated by the Board. During the fiscal year-ended December 31, 2019 , NXP repurchased no shares under the 2019 Share Repurchase Program. Under Dutch tax law, the repurchase of a companys shares by an entity domiciled in the Netherlands results in a taxable event. The tax on the repurchased shares is attributed to the shareholders, with NXP making the payment on the shareholders behalf. As such, the tax on the repurchased shares is accounted for within stockholders equity. The following table provides a summary of shares repurchased by the Company in 2019 : 33 Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Program Number of Shares Purchased as Trade for Tax (1) January 1, 2019 February 3, 2019 5,323,164 $80.18 5,254,300 9,776,779 68,864 February 4, 2019 March 3, 2019 3,158,779 $91.28 3,134,759 6,618,000 24,020 March 4, 2019 March 31, 2019 454 $93.30 6,617,546 454 April 1, 2019 May 5, 2019 3,099,582 $100.35 3,096,600 3,517,964 2,982 May 6, 2019 June 2, 2019 3,516,432 $94.98 3,500,000 1,532 16,432 June 3, 2019 June 30, 2019 $0.00 1,532 July 1, 2019 August 4, 2019 84,865 $101.81 84,865 August 5, 2019 September 1, 2019 3,829 $100.78 3,829 September 2, 2019 September 29, 2019 200 $106.00 200 September 30, 2019 November 3, 2019 678,473 $108.56 678,473 November 4, 2019 December 1, 2019 (60 ) $108.27 17,304,032 (60 ) December 2, 2019 December 31, 2019 $0.00 15,715,857 Total 15,865,718 14,985,659 880,059 (1) Reflects shares surrendered by participants to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the Company's equity programs. Company Performance The following graph shows a comparison, since December 31, 2014 of cumulative total return for NXP, the Standard & Poor's 500 Index, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Semiconductor Index. The graph assumes $100 (not in millions) invested on December 31, 2014 in our common stock and each of the indices. 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table presents a summary of our selected historical consolidated financial data. We prepare our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The results of operations for prior years are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. On December 6, 2019, we acquired Marvell Technology Group Ltd.'s ("Marvell") Wireless WiFi Connectivity Business Unit, Bluetooth technology portfolio and related assets, for total consideration of $1.7 billion, net of closing adjustments. The results of their operations and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination are included in our financial statements from the date of acquisition forward. On July 26, 2018, we received $2 billion in termination compensation from Qualcomm per the terms of the purchase contract. On February 6, 2017, we divested our Standard Products (SP) business, receiving $2.6 billion in cash proceeds, net of cash divested. Prior to February 6, 2017, the results of the SP business were included in the reportable segment SP. On December 7, 2015, we acquired Freescale Semiconductor, Ltd. (Freescale) for a total consideration of $11.6 billion (the Merger). The results of their operations and the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the business combination are included in our financial statements from the date of acquisition forward. 35 The information set forth below for the five years ended December 31, 2019 , is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. As of and for the years ended December 31, ($ in millions unless otherwise stated) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Consolidated statements of operations data: Revenue (2) 8,877 9,407 9,256 9,498 6,101 Gross profit (3) 4,618 4,851 4,619 4,069 2,787 Total operating expenses (4) (4,002 ) (4,142 ) (4,092 ) (4,228 ) (2,035 ) Other income (expense) (5) 25 2,001 1,575 9 1,263 Operating income (loss) 641 2,710 2,102 (150 ) 2,015 Financial income (expense) (350 ) (335 ) (366 ) (453 ) (529 ) Net income (loss) attributable to stockholders 243 2,208 2,215 200 1,526 Earnings per share data: Net income per common share attributable to stockholders in $ Basic 0.86 6.78 6.54 0.59 6.36 Diluted 0.85 6.72 6.41 0.58 6.10 Weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year (in thousands) Basic 282,056 325,781 338,646 338,477 239,764 Diluted 285,911 328,606 345,802 347,607 250,116 Cash dividends declared per share (6) 1.25 0.50 Cash dividends declared per share in EUR (6) 1.12 0.43 Consolidated balance sheet data (7) : Cash and cash equivalents 1,045 2,789 3,547 1,894 1,614 Total assets 20,016 21,530 24,049 24,898 26,354 Net assets 9,655 10,690 13,716 11,156 11,803 Working capital (8) 1,476 2,947 4,077 3,386 2,820 Total debt (9), (10) 7,365 7,354 6,565 9,187 9,212 Total stockholders equity 9,441 10,505 13,527 10,935 11,515 Common stock 64 67 71 71 68 Other operating data: Capital expenditures (526 ) (611 ) (552 ) (389 ) (341 ) Depreciation and amortization (11) 2,047 1,987 2,173 2,205 517 Consolidated statements of cash flows data: Net cash provided by (used for): Operating activities 2,373 4,369 2,447 2,303 1,330 Investing activities (2,284 ) (522 ) 2,072 (627 ) (430 ) Financing activities (12) (1,831 ) (4,597 ) (2,886 ) (1,392 ) (449 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1,742 ) (750 ) 1,633 284 451 (1) Reflects the results of the SP business up to the February 6, 2017 divestment. (2) Under the modified retrospective method, revenue amounts before January 1, 2018 have not been adjusted for the impact of adopting ASC 606. 36 (3) Gross profit in 2019 includes a charge of $8 million resulting from the purchase accounting effect on the inventory acquired from Marvell. In 2016 gross profit includes a charge of $448 million (2015: $149 million), resulting from the purchase accounting effect on the inventory acquired from Freescale. (4) In 2019, total operating expenses include charges related to the acquisition of Marvell as follows - $7 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and $5 million of acquisition related costs. Total operating expenses in 2016 include charges related to the acquisition of Freescale as follows - $1,430 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, which includes an impairment charge of $89 million relative to in-process research and development (IPR&D) that was acquired from Freescale, and $53 million of merger and integration related costs. In 2015, total operating expenses include charges related to the acquisition of Freescale as follows - $226 million in restructuring charges, $105 million for the amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, $49 million of share-based compensation charges related to employees terminated as a result of the Merger and $42 million of merger related costs. (5) Other income (expense) in 2018 includes the termination compensation received from Qualcomm ($2 billion). Other income (expense) in 2017 includes the recognition of the gain on the sale of our SP business ($1,597 million). Other income (expense) in 2015 includes the recognition of the gains from the sale of our Bipolar business on November 9, 2015 and the sale of our RF Power business on December 7, 2015. See the section on Other Significant Transactions in Part I, Item 1. Business. (6) Reflects the interim dividends declared under the previously announced Quarterly Dividend Program. (7) Consolidated balance sheet data as of 2019 includes the impact of purchase accounting on the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisition of Marvell and as of 2015 includes the impact of purchase accounting on the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisition of Freescale. (8) Working capital is calculated as current assets less current liabilities (excluding short-term debt). (9) On June 18, 2019, NXP entered into two new senior unsecured notes, which are due in 2026 ($750 million) and 2029 ($1 billion). NXP used the net proceeds for general corporate purposes as well as the repayment of the $600 million outstanding aggregate principal amount of 2020 senior notes. In addition, in December 2019 NXP fully repaid the $1.15 billion 2019 cash convertible senior notes. On December 6, 2018, NXP entered into 3 new senior unsecured notes, which are due in 2024 ($1 billion), 2026 ($500 million) and 2028 ($500 million). NXP used the net proceeds for general corporate purposes as well as the repayment of the $1 billion senior unsecured bridge term credit facility agreement (the Bridge Loan), which was entered into on September 19, 2018 for general corporate purposes as well as to finance parts of the announced equity buy-back program. In April 2018, NXP fully repaid the $750 million senior unsecured notes on the due date. In addition, NXP fully repaid the $500 million senior unsecured notes due in 2023. In February 2017, NXP repaid all term loans, including Term Loan B (defined below), with the funds from the proceeds of the divestment of the SP business. Additionally, $500 million was repaid on the 2021 unsecured senior notes in March 2017. On December 7, 2015, in connection with the Merger, NXP entered into a $2.7 billion secured term loan (Term Loan B). Proceeds from Term Loan B, among others, were used to (i) pay the cash consideration in connection with the Merger, (ii) effect the repayment of certain amounts under Freescales outstanding credit facility and (iii) pay certain transaction costs. (10) The following is a reconciliation of net debt to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, total debt, as adjusted for our cash and cash equivalents our net debt was calculated as follows: ($ in millions) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Long-term debt 7,365 6,247 5,814 8,766 8,656 Short-term debt 1,107 751 421 556 Total debt 7,365 7,354 6,565 9,187 9,212 Less: cash and cash equivalents (1,045 ) (2,789 ) (3,547 ) (1,894 ) (1,614 ) Net debt 6,320 4,565 3,018 7,293 7,598 Net debt is a non-GAAP financial measure. See Use of Certain Non-GAAP Financial Measures under Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . (11) Depreciation and amortization includes the effect of purchase accounting related to acquisitions in certain years. The effect of purchase accounting in depreciation and amortization was $1,528 million in 2019, $1,535 million in 2018, $1,741 million in 2017, $1,782 million (which includes an impairment charge of $89 million relative to IPR&D that was acquired from Freescale) in 2016 and $252 million in 2015. 37 (12) Financing activities includes the repurchases of NXP common stock in 2019 ($1,443 million) and in 2018 ($5,006 million) and the distribution of cash dividends in 2019 ($319 million) and in 2018 ($74 million). As used in this Annual Report, euro, or means the single unified currency of the European Monetary Union. U.S. dollar, USD, U.S. $ or $ means the lawful currency of the United States of America. As used in this Annual Report, the term noon buying rate refers to the exchange rate for euro, expressed in U.S. dollars per euro, as announced by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for customs purposes as the rate in the city of New York for cable transfers in foreign currencies. The table below shows the average noon buying rates for U.S. dollars per euro for the five years ended December 31, 2019 . The averages set forth in the table below have been computed using the noon buying rate on the next to last business day of each fiscal month during the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Average $ per 1.1210 1.1794 1.1310 1.1065 1.1150 Fluctuations in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar have had a significant effect on the translation into U.S. dollar of our euro-denominated assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and may continue to do so in the future. For further information on the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates on our operations, see the Fluctuations in Foreign Rates May Have An Adverse Effect On Our Financial Results section in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors and the Foreign Currency Risks section in Part II,