Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, strategies, prospects, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In such case, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our business, prospects, financial condition, or results of operations could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. Risks Related to Our Business, Operations and Financial Condition We have had a limited operating history and may not be able to successfully operate our business or execute our business plan. Given our limited operating history, it is hard to evaluate our proposed business and prospects. Our proposed business operations will be subject to numerous risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties associated with early-stage enterprises. Such risks include, but are not limited to, the following: the absence of a lengthy operating history; potential for ongoing operating losses; operating in multiple currencies; our ability to anticipate and adapt to a developing market(s); acceptance of our products by the medical and industrial (I4.0) markets and consumers; introducing innovation to conservative industries; development risks and implementation of new software and algorithm for AI and cloud utilization; insufficient capital to fully realize our operating plan; a competitive environment; the ability to identify, attract, and retain qualified personnel; and operating in an environment that is highly regulated by a number of agencies. Because we are subject to these risks, evaluating our business may be difficult, our business strategy may be unsuccessful and we may be unable to address such risks in a cost-effective manner, if at all. We have not earned a profit in any full fiscal year since our inception, and we cannot be certain as to when or if we will achieve or maintain profitability. If we are unable to successfully address these risks our business could be harmed. 13 If we are unable to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into successful relationships with business targets and third parties to perform these services, we may not be successful in commercializing our products and technology. Given that we are currently as a B2B company, our business is reliant on our ability to successfully attract potential business targets. Furthermore, we have a limited sales and marketing infrastructure and have limited experience in the sale, marketing, or distribution of our technologies beyond the B2B model. To achieve commercial success for our technologies or any future developed product, we will need to establish a sales and marketing infrastructure or to out-license such future products. In the future, we may consider building a focused sales and marketing infrastructure to market any developed products and potentially other products in the United States or elsewhere in the world. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities. For example, recruiting and training a sales force could be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize any future products on our own include: we have not recruited adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; the challenge of sales personnel to obtain access to potential customers; the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel or lack of product-market fit, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are unable to establish our own sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities or enter into successful arrangements with third parties to perform these services, we will not be successful in commercializing our technologies or any future products we may develop and our revenues and profitability may be materially adversely affected. We may require substantial additional funding, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Our cash and short-term deposit balance as of December 31, 2022 was $13.1 million. We may require additional funding to fund and grow our operations and to develop certain products. There can be no assurance that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event we required additional capital, the inability to obtain such capital will restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we require and are unable to obtain additional financing, we will likely be required to curtail our development plans. In that event, current stockholders would likely experience a loss of most or all of their investment. Additional funding that we do obtain may be dilutive to the interests of existing stockholders. Our failure to effectively manage growth could impair our business. Our business strategy contemplates a period of rapid growth which may put a strain on our administrative and operational resources, and our funding requirements. Our ability to effectively manage growth will require us to successfully expand the capabilities of our operational and management systems, and to attract, train, manage, and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so, particularly if losses continue and we are unable to obtain sufficient financing. If we are unable to appropriately manage growth, our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 Our commercial success depends upon the degree of market acceptance by such prospective markets and industries as defense and aviation, as well as by the medical community. Our current business model is that of a B2B approach in which we seek to identify target businesses interested in integrating our technology or commissioning individual projects using our technology. Any product that we commission or that is brought to the market may or may not gain market acceptance by prospective customers. The commercial success of our technologies, commissioned products, and any future product that we may develop depends in part on the medical community as well as other industries for various use cases, depending on the acceptance by such industries of our commissioned products as a useful and cost-effective solution compared to current technologies. During 2022, we commenced proactive market penetration into industries other than the biomedical sector, such as the defense and aviation industries. If our technology or any future product that we may develop does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, or does not garner significant commercial appeal, we may not generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. The degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including: the cost, safety, efficacy/performance, perceived value and convenience of our technology and any commissioned product and any future product that we may develop in relation to alternative products; the ability of third parties to enter into relationships with us; the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts; the strength of marketing and distribution support for, and timing of market introduction of, competing technology and products; and publicity concerning our technology or commissioned products or competing technology and products. Our efforts to penetrate industries and educate the marketplace on the benefits of our technology, and reasons to seek the commissioning of products based on our technology, may require significant resources and may never be successful. Such efforts to educate the marketplace may require more resources than are required by conventional technologies. Weakened global economic conditions may harm our industry, business and results of operations. Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic conditions. Global financial developments and downturns seemingly unrelated to us or may harm us. The United States and other key international economies have been affected from time to time by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, reduced liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, inflation and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy, including with respect to tariff and trade issues. Weak economic conditions or the perception thereof, or significant uncertainty regarding the stability of financial markets related to stock market volatility, inflation, recession, changes in tariffs, trade agreements, or governmental fiscal, monetary and tax policies, among others, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. More recently, inflation rates in the U.S. have been higher than in previous years, which may result in decreased demand for our products and services, increases in our operating costs including our labor costs, constrained credit and liquidity, reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets. The Federal Reserve has raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns over inflation risk. Increases in interest rates on credit and debt that would increase the cost of any borrowing that we may make from time to time and could impact our ability to access the capital markets. Increases in interest rates, especially if coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. In an inflationary environment, we may be unable to raise the sales prices of our products at or above the rate at which our costs increase, which could reduce our profit margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and net income. We also may experience lower than expected sales and potential adverse impacts on our competitive position if there is a decrease in consumer spending or a negative reaction to our pricing. A reduction in our revenue would be detrimental to our profitability and financial condition and could also have an adverse impact on our future growth. 15 The continuing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are highly unpredictable and could be significant, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic ultimately impacts our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, such as the duration of future outbreaks, including current and subsequent variants of COVID-19, travel restrictions and social distancing in Israel, the United States and other countries, business closures or business disruptions, and the effectiveness of actions taken in Israel, the United States and other countries to contain and treat the disease and to address its impact, including on financial markets or otherwise. These measures have impacted, and may further impact, our suppliers and other business partners from conducting business activities as usual (including, without limitation, the availability and pricing of materials, manufacturing and delivery efforts, clinical trials and other aspects that may affect our business) for an unknown period of time. In addition, we, our suppliers and other business partners may experience significant impairments of business activities due to operational shutdowns or suspensions that may be requested or mandated by national or local governmental authorities or self-imposed by us, our suppliers or other business partners. Risk Related to Third Parties Our reliance on third-party suppliers for most of the components of our products could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely and cost-effective manner. We rely on our third-party suppliers to obtain an adequate supply of quality components on a timely basis with favorable terms to manufacture our commissioned products. Some of those components that we sell are provided to us by a limited number of suppliers. We will be subject to disruptions in our operations if our sole or limited supply contract manufacturers decrease or stop production of components or do not produce components and products of sufficient quantity or quality. Alternative sources for our components will not always be available. Though we attempt to ensure the availability of more than one supplier for each important component in any product that we commission, the number of suppliers engaged in the provision of miniature video sensors which are suitable for our CMOS technology mainly in the medical domain is very limited, and therefore in some cases we engage with a single supplier, which may result in our dependency on such supplier. This is the case regarding sensors for the CMOS type technology that are produced by a single supplier in the United States. As we do not have a direct general contract in place with this supplier, there is no contractual commitment on the part of such supplier for any set quantity of such sensors. The loss of our sole supplier in providing us with miniature sensors for our CMOS technology products mainly in the medical domain, and our inability or delay in finding a suitable replacement supplier, could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and reputation. We are also subject to other risks inherent in the manufacturing of our products and their supply chain, including industrial accidents, natural disasters (including as a result of climate change), environmental events, strikes, and other labor disputes, capacity constraints, disruptions in material or packaging supplies, as well as global shortages, disruptions in supply chain or information technology, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites or suppliers, product quality control, safety, increase in commodity prices and energy costs, licensing requirements and other regulatory issues, as well as other external factors over which we have no control. If such an event were to occur, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, if we cannot supply commissioned products or future potentially developed products due to a lack of components or are unable to utilize other components in a timely manner, our business will be significantly harmed. If inventory shortages occur, they could be expected to have a material and adverse effect on our future revenues and ability to effectively project future sales and operating results. 16 We may not be able to manage our strategic partners effectively. We have entered into, and we may continue to enter into, strategic alliances with third parties to gain access to new and innovative technologies and markets. These parties are often large, established companies. Negotiating and performing under these arrangements involves significant time and expense, and we may not have sufficient resources to devote to our strategic alliances, particularly those with companies that have significantly greater financial and other resources than we do. The anticipated benefits of these arrangements may never materialize and performing under these arrangements may adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our current partners effectively or enter into new strategic alliances may affect our success in executing our business plan and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. We may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all partnerships or may not realize them in the time frame expected. We may not have sufficient manufacturing capabilities to satisfy any growing demand for our commissioned products. We may be unable to control the availability or cost of producing such products. Our current manufacturing capabilities may not reach the required production levels necessary in order to meet growing demands for any products we may commission or future products we may develop. There can be no assurance that our commissioned products can be manufactured at our desired commercial quantities, in compliance with our requirements, and at an acceptable cost. Any such failure could delay or prevent us from shipping said products and marketing our technologies in accordance with our target growth strategies. Risks Related to Competition We expect to face competition. If we cannot successfully compete with new or existing technologies or future developed products, our marketing and sales will suffer and we may never be profitable. We expect to compete against existing technologies and proven products in different industries. In addition, some of these competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, operate larger research and development programs than we do, and may have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as significantly greater experience in obtaining regulatory approvals applicable to the commercialization of relevant competitive technologies and future products. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, Chapter 9 (sub-chapter 5) of the Israeli Penal Law, 5737-1977, and the Israeli Prohibition on Money Laundering Law, 5760-2000, collectively, the Israeli Anti-Corruption Laws, and the UK Bribery Act 2010, or UK Bribery Act, and other anticorruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business, both domestic and abroad. These laws generally prohibit us and our employees from improperly influencing government officials or commercial parties in order to obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or gain any advantage. The FCPA, the Israeli Anti-Corruption Laws, the UK Bribery Act, and other applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws also may hold us liable for acts of corruption and bribery committed by our third-party business partners, representatives and agents. In addition, we leverage third parties to sell our products and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party business partners, representatives and agents may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and we may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies or applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible and our exposure for violating these laws increases as our international presence is established and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. Any violation of the FCPA, the Israeli Anti-Corruption Laws, the UK Bribery Act, or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, imposition of significant legal fees, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions or suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, substantial diversion of managements attention, a decline in the market price of our common stock or overall adverse consequences to our reputation and business, all of which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to obtain patents or other intellectual property rights necessary to protect our proprietary technology and business. We may seek to patent concepts, components, processes, designs and methods, and other inventions and technologies that we consider to have commercial value or that will likely give us a technological advantage. Despite devoting resources to the research and development of proprietary technology, we may not be able to develop technology that is patentable or protectable. Patents may not be issued in connection with pending patent applications, and claims allowed may not be sufficient to allow them to use the inventions that they create exclusively. Furthermore, any patents issued could be challenged, re-examined, held invalid or unenforceable, or circumvented and may not provide sufficient protection or a competitive advantage. In addition, despite efforts to protect and maintain patents, competitors and other third parties may be able to design around their patents or develop products similar to our work products that are not within the scope of their patents. Finally, patents provide certain statutory protection only for a limited period of time that varies depending on the jurisdiction and type of patent. Prosecution and protection of the rights sought in patent applications and patents can be costly, lengthy, and uncertain, often involve complex legal and factual issues, and consume significant time and resources. In addition, the breadth of claims allowed in our patents, their enforceability, and our ability to protect and maintain them cannot be predicted with any certainty. The laws of certain countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Even if our patents are held to be valid and enforceable in a certain jurisdiction, any legal proceedings that we may initiate against third parties to enforce such patents will likely be expensive, take significant time, and divert managements attention from other business matters. We cannot assure that any of our issued patents or pending patent applications provide any protectable, maintainable, or enforceable rights or competitive advantages to us. In addition to patents, we plan to rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other related laws and confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect, maintain, and enforce our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights in the United States and other countries. However, our ability to protect our brands by registering certain trademarks may be limited. In addition, while we will generally enter into confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements with our employees, consultants, contract manufacturers, distributors and resellers, and with others to attempt to limit access to and distribution of our proprietary and confidential information, it is possible that: misappropriation of our proprietary and confidential information, including technology, will nevertheless occur; our confidentiality agreements will not be honored or may be rendered unenforceable; third parties will independently develop equivalent, superior, or competitive technology or products; disputes will arise with our current or future strategic licensees, customers, or others concerning the ownership, validity, enforceability, use, patentability, or registrability of intellectual property; or unauthorized disclosure of our know-how, trade secrets, or other proprietary or confidential information will occur. We may not be successful in enforcing our intellectual property rights against third parties. Unlicensed copying and use of our intellectual property or infringement of our intellectual property rights may result in the loss of revenue to us and cause us other harm. We seek diligently to enforce our intellectual property rights. Although we devote significant resources to developing and protecting our technologies, and evaluating potential competitors of our technologies for infringement of our intellectual property rights, these infringements may nonetheless go undetected or may arise in the future. In the ordinary course of business, we encounter companies that we suspect are infringing on our intellectual property rights. When we encounter a company that we suspect is infringing our intellectual property rights, we may try to analyze their products and/or try to negotiate a license arrangement with such party. If we try and are unable to negotiate a license or secure the agreement of such alleged infringing party to cease its activities, we must make decisions as to how best to enforce our intellectual property rights. 18 The process of negotiating a license with a third party can be lengthy, and may take months or even years in some circumstances. Even if we are successful in securing a license agreement, there can be no assurance that our technologies will be used in a product that is ultimately brought to market, achieves commercial acceptance or results in significant royalties to us. We generally incur expense prior to entering into our license agreements, generating a license fee, and establishing a royalty stream from each customer. We may incur costs in any particular period before any associated revenue stream begins, if at all. Further, it is possible that third parties who we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights are unwilling to license our intellectual property from us on terms we can accept, or at all. If we cannot persuade a third party who we believe is infringing our technology to enter into a license with us, we may be required to consider other alternatives to enforce our rights, including commencing litigation. The decision to commence litigation over infringement of a patent is complex and may lead to several risks to us, including the following, among others: the time, significant expense and distraction to management of managing such litigation; the uncertainty of litigation and its potential outcomes; the possibility that in the course of such litigation, the defendant may challenge the validity of our patents, which could result in a re-examination or post grant review of our patents and the possibility that our patents may be limited in scope or invalidated altogether; the potential that the defendant may successfully persuade a court that their technology or products do not infringe our intellectual property rights; the impact of such litigation on other licensing relationships we have or seek to establish, including the timing of renewing or entering into such relationships, as applicable, as well as the terms of such relationships; and adverse publicity to us or harm to relationships we have with customers or others. Also, enforcement of patent protection throughout the world is generally established on a country-by-country basis and we may not have as much success enforcing our patents in foreign jurisdictions as in the United States. Further, in some instances, certain foreign governmental entities that might infringe our intellectual property rights may enjoy sovereign immunity from such claims. Consequently, effective protection of our intellectual property rights may be unavailable or limited. Defendants in any litigation we consider commencing may have substantially greater financial and management resources necessary to manage litigation than we have. Further, such potential defendants may also have their own substantial patent portfolio. Patent litigation can endure for years and result in millions of dollars of expenses. If our counterparties in such litigation have substantially greater resources than we have, we may not be able to withstand the time, expense, or distraction of the litigation, even though we may have a better litigation position than such counterparties. In such instances we may not recover the expenses of litigation, and we may be required to enter into settlement agreements that would be adverse to us or our intellectual property portfolio. The foregoing and other factors may cause us not to file or continue litigation against alleged infringers of our intellectual property rights, or may cause us not to file for, or pursue, patent protection for our inventive technology, in certain jurisdictions. Our failure to seek to enforce our intellectual property rights may weaken our ability to enforce our intellectual property in the future or make our efforts to license our intellectual property rights more difficult. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, if there are adverse changes in applicable laws, or if we become involved in litigation relating to our intellectual property rights or the intellectual property rights of others, our business could be seriously harmed. In such cases, the value ascribed to our intellectual property could diminish, we may incur significant legal expenses that could harm our results of operations, and our patents or other intellectual property rights may be limited or invalidated. Any of the foregoing could have a negative effect on the value of our common stock. 19 We may be subject to infringement claims and other litigation, which could adversely affect our business. As more companies engage in business activities relating to predictive maintenance solutions, and develop corresponding intellectual property rights, it is increasingly likely that claims may arise which assert that some of our products or services infringe upon other parties intellectual property rights. These claims could subject us to costly litigation and divert management resources. These claims may require us to pay significant damages, cease production of infringing products, terminate our use of infringing technology, or develop non-infringing technologies. In these circumstances, continued use of our technology may require that we acquire licenses to the intellectual property that is the subject of the alleged infringement, and we might not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our use of protected technology may result in liability that could threaten our continued operation. Some of the contracts with our customers include indemnity and similar provisions regarding our non-infringement of third-party intellectual property rights. As deployment of our technology increases, and more companies enter our markets, the likelihood of a third party lawsuit resulting from these provisions increases. If an infringement arose in a context governed by such a contract, we may have to refund to our customer amounts already paid to us or pay significant damages, or we may be sued by the party whose intellectual property has allegedly been infringed upon. Governmental regulation of non-practicing patent holders may adversely affect our business. Governmental policymakers and commercial participants have proposed reforming U.S. patent laws and regulations in a manner that may limit a patent-holders ability to enforce its patents against others to the extent that the holder is not practicing the subject matter of the patent at issue. The U.S. International Trade Commission has also recently taken certain actions that have been viewed as unfavorable to patentees seeking recourse in this forum. While we cannot predict what form any new patent reform laws or regulations may ultimately take, or what impact they may have on our business, any laws or regulations that restrict our ability to enforce our patent rights against third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business. General Risk Factors Related to Our Business Our business and operations would suffer in the event of computer system failures, cyber-attacks, or deficiencies in our cyber-security. Security incidents involving our information technology systems and those of third parties on which we rely have occurred in the past, such as phishing attacks, although none of these incidents have been material to our business. Such security incidents may occur in the future. Despite the implementation of security measures, our internal computer systems, and those of third parties on which we rely, are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, malware, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication and electrical failures, cyber-attacks or cyber-intrusions over the Internet, attachments to emails, persons inside our organization, or persons with access to systems inside our organization. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber-attacks or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments, and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. If such an event were to occur and cause interruptions in our operations, it could result in a material disruption of our product development programs. To the extent that any disruption or security breach was to result in a loss of or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur material legal claims and liability, and damage to our reputation, and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed. We face an increasingly difficult challenge to attract and retain highly qualified security personnel to assist us in combatting these security threats. We may be subject to product liability claims, product actions, including product recalls, and other field or regulatory actions that could be expensive, divert managements attention, and harm our business. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks, product actions, and other field or regulatory actions that are inherent in the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical device, or any other products that we may have commissioned for a target business. We may be held liable if such products cause injury or death or are found otherwise unsuitable or defective during usage. Our products incorporate mechanical and electrical parts, complex computer software, and other sophisticated components, any of which can contain errors or failures. Complex computer software is particularly vulnerable to errors and failures, especially when first introduced. In addition, new products or enhancements to our existing products may contain undetected errors or performance problems that, despite testing, are discovered only after installation. If any of our commissioned products are defective, whether due to design or manufacturing defects, improper use of the product, or other reasons, we may voluntarily or involuntarily undertake an action to remove, repair, or replace the product at our expense. In some circumstances we will be required to notify regulatory authorities of an action pursuant to a product failure. 20 Testing of our technologies potential applications for our products will be required and there is no assurance of regulatory approval. The effect of government regulation and the need for compliance may delay marketing of our technologies and future potentially developed products for a considerable period of time, impose costly procedures upon our activities, and provide an advantage to larger companies that compete with us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve regulatory compliance for any of our products. Any such delay in achieving such regulatory compliance would materially and adversely affect the marketing of any contemplated products and the ability to earn product revenue. Further, regulation of manufacturing facilities by state, local, and other authorities is subject to change. Any additional regulation could result in limitations or restrictions on our ability to utilize any of our technologies, thereby adversely affecting our operations. Various federal and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the manufacturing, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, and marketing of our products. The process of compliance with relevant U.S. and foreign statutes and regulations are time-consuming and require the expenditure of substantial resources. In addition, these requirements and processes vary widely from country to country. We rely on highly skilled personnel as a result of the high-tech applications we utilize, and if we are unable to attract, retain, or motivate qualified personnel, we may not be able to operate our business effectively. Our success depends in large part on continued employment of senior management and key personnel who can effectively operate our business, as well as our ability to attract and retain skilled employees. Competition for highly skilled management, technical, research and development, and other employees is intense and we may not be able to attract or retain highly qualified personnel in the future. Our long-term incentive programs may not be attractive enough or perform sufficiently to attract or retain qualified personnel. If a significant portion of our employees leaves us, we might fail to effectively manage a transition to new personnel, or if we fail to attract and retain qualified and experienced professionals on acceptable terms, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, the volatility of our stock price may make our equity compensation less attractive to current and potential employees. Our success also depends on our having highly trained financial, technical, R&D, sales, and marketing personnel. We will need to continue to hire additional personnel as our business grows. A shortage in the number of people with these skills or our failure to attract them to our company could impede our ability to increase revenues from our existing technology and services, ensure full compliance with international and federal regulations, or launch new product offerings and would have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may be unable to keep pace with changes in technology as our business and market strategy evolves. We will need to respond to technological advances in a cost-effective and timely manner in order to remain competitive. The need to respond to technological changes may require us to make substantial, unanticipated expenditures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond successfully to technological change. 21 Risks Related to this Offering and Our Common Stock Although we have filed an application to list our securities on Nasdaq, there can be no assurance that our securities will be so listed or, if listed, that we will be able to comply with the continued listing standards. In June 2021 we filed a comprehensive listing application package with The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, to request an uplisting of the Companys common stock. Nasdaq has not approved our application, and there can be no assurance that Nasdaq will approve us for listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market and, even if our securities are listed, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such listing. In addition, if after listing, Nasdaq delists our securities from trading on its exchange for failure to meet the continued listing standards, we and our shareholders could face significant material adverse consequences including a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock, confirmation that our stock is penny stock and subject to increased regulations, and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Trading on the OTC Markets is volatile, sporadic and often thin, which could depress the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for our stockholders to resell their common stock. Our common stock is currently quoted on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets. Trading in securities quoted on the OTC Markets is often thin and characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices due to many factors, some of which may have little to do with our operations or business prospects. This volatility could depress the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to operating performance. Moreover, the OTC Markets is not a stock exchange, and trading of securities on the OTC Markets is often more sporadic than the trading of securities listed on a stock exchange like NASDAQ or the NYSE. Our common stock has a history of thin trading. During the 52-week period ended December 31, 2022, trades were only reported on 37 trading days. These factors may result in investors having difficulty reselling any shares of our common stock . Anti-takeover provisions contained in our articles and bylaws, as well as provisions of Nevada law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws currently contain provisions that, together with Nevada law, could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents presently include provisions such as providing for a staggered board of directors in which only one-third (1/3) of the directors can be elected in any year, and limiting the liability of, and providing indemnifications to, our directors and officers. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control of our company or changes in our management. As a Nevada corporation, we may also become subject to the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes Sections 78.378 through 78.3793, which prohibit an acquirer, under certain circumstances, from voting shares of a corporations stock after crossing specific threshold ownership percentages, unless the acquirer obtains the approval of the stockholders of the issuer corporation. The first such threshold is the acquisition of at least one-fifth, but less than one-third of the outstanding voting power of the issuer. We may become subject to the above referenced Statutes if we have 200 or more stockholders of record, at least 100 of whom are residents of the State of Nevada and do business in the State of Nevada directly or through an affiliated corporation. Any provision of our amended and restated articles of incorporation, our bylaws or Nevada law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of our company could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and such volatility could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as: the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning intellectual property rights; 22 changes in legal, regulatory, and enforcement frameworks impacting our technology or the application of our technology; variations in our and our competitors results of operations; fluctuations in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits; future issuances of common stock or other securities; the addition or departure of key personnel; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; current or anticipated impact of military conflict, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, terrorism or other geopolitical events; sanctions imposed by the United States and other countries in response to such conflicts, including the one in Ukraine, may also adversely impact the financial markets and the global economy, and any economic countermeasures by affected countries and others could exacerbate market and economic instability; and general market conditions and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant volatility, particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences company stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation. Because our common stock may be deemed a penny stock, it may be more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Our common stock may be a penny stock if, among other things, the stock price is below $5.00 per share, it is not listed on a national securities exchange, or it has not met certain net tangible asset or average revenue requirements. Broker-dealers who sell penny stocks must provide purchasers of these stocks with a standardized risk-disclosure document prepared by the SEC. This risk-disclosure document provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks involved in investing in the penny-stock market. A broker must also give a purchaser, orally or in writing, bid and offer quotations and information regarding broker and salesperson compensation, make a written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and obtain the purchasers written agreement to the purchase. Broker-dealers must also provide customers that hold penny stock in their accounts with such broker-dealer a monthly statement containing price and market information relating to the penny stock. If a penny stock is sold to an investor in violation of the penny stock rules, the investor may be able to cancel its purchase and get their money back. If applicable, the penny stock rules may make it difficult for stockholders to sell their shares of our common stock. Because of the rules and restrictions applicable to a penny stock, there is less trading in penny stocks and the market price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Also, many brokers choose not to participate in penny stock transactions. Accordingly, stockholders may not always be able to resell their shares of our common stock publicly at times and prices that they feel are appropriate. 23 Compliance with the reporting requirements of federal securities laws can be expensive. We are a public reporting company in the United States, and accordingly, subject to the information and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and other federal securities laws. The costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports and other information with the SEC and furnishing audited reports to stockholders are substantial. Failure to comply with the applicable securities laws could result in private or governmental legal action against us or our officers and directors, which could have a detrimental impact on our business and financials, the value of our stock, and the ability of stockholders to resell their stock. Our investors ownership in the Company may be diluted in the future. In the future, we may issue additional authorized but previously unissued equity securities, resulting in the dilution of ownership interests of our present stockholders. We have in the past and may continue to issue a substantial number of shares of common stock or other securities convertible into or exercisable for common stock in connection with capital raising activity, hiring or retaining employees, future acquisitions, raising additional capital in the future to fund our operations, and other business purposes. We expect to authorize in the future a substantial number of shares of our common stock for issuance under a stock option or similar plan, and may issue equity awards to management, employees and other eligible persons. Additional shares of common stock issued by us in the future will dilute an investors investment in the Company. In addition, we may seek stockholder approval to increase the amount of the Companys authorized stock, which would create the potential for further dilution of current investors. Directors, executive officers, principal stockholders, and affiliated entities own a significant percentage of our capital stock, and they may make decisions that our stockholders do not consider to be in their best interests. As of March 28, 2023, our directors, executive officers, principal stockholders, and affiliated entities may be deemed to beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 84.40% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, if some or all of such parties acted together, they would have the ability to exert substantial influence over the election of our board of directors and the outcome of issues requiring approval by our stockholders. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company that may be favored by other stockholders. This could prevent transactions in which stockholders might otherwise recover a premium for their shares over current market prices. This concentration of ownership and influence in management and board decision-making could also harm the price of our capital stock by, among other things, discouraging a potential acquirer from seeking to acquire shares of our capital stock (whether by making a tender offer or otherwise) or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our Company. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends, and we do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not rely on an investment in our common stock as a source for any future dividend income. Our board of directors has complete discretion as to whether to distribute dividends. Even if our board of directors decides to declare and pay dividends, the timing, amount, and form of future dividends, if any, will depend on our future results of operations and cash flow, our capital requirements and surplus, the amount of distributions, if any, received by us from our subsidiary, our financial condition, contractual restrictions, and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Risks Related to our Operations in Israel We are subject to the risks of political, economic, health, and military instability in countries outside the United States in which we operate. Some of our products are produced in Israel, India, China, and other countries which are particularly subject to risks of political, economic, health, and military instability. This instability could result in wars, riots, nationalization of industry, currency fluctuations, and labor unrest or unavailability. These conditions could have an adverse impact on our ability to manufacture, ship, and operate in these regions and, depending on the extent and severity of these conditions, could result in a reduction in customer orders and sales to certain regions and end-markets and materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and operating results. We have principal manufacturing facilities and operations located in Israel. Accordingly, our business will be directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel at any given time. 24 Political, economic and military instability in Israel may impede our ability to operate and harm our financial results. Our offices and management team are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic, and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region may directly affect our business and operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have occurred between Israel and its neighboring countries. We have never experienced any material interruption in our operations attributable to these factors, in spite of several Middle East crises, including wars. A change in the security and political situation in Israel and in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In recent years, Israel has been subject to certain political instability and increased number of elections were held. Actual or perceived political instability in Israel or any negative changes in the political environment, may individually or in the aggregate adversely affect the Israeli economy and, in turn, our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. Israel is still engaged in sporadic armed conflicts with Hamas, an Islamist terrorist group that controls the Gaza Strip, with Hezbollah, an Islamist terrorist group that controls large portions of southern Lebanon, and with Iranian-backed military forces in Syria. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and may be developing nuclear weapons. Some of these hostilities were accompanied by missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip against civilian targets in various parts of Israel, including areas in which our employees and some of our consultants are located, and negatively affected business conditions in Israel. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our operations and results of operations. Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with war and terrorism. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or that it will sufficiently cover our potential damages. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Further, in the past, the State of Israel and Israeli companies have been subjected to economic boycotts. Several countries still restrict business with the State of Israel and with Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, or the expansion of our business. A campaign of boycotts, divestment, and sanctions has been undertaken against Israel, which could also adversely impact our business. In addition, many Israeli citizens are obligated to perform several days, and in some cases more, of annual military reserve duty each year until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for reservists who are military officers or who have certain occupations) and, in the event of a military conflict, may be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by such call-ups, which may include the call-up of members of our management. Such disruption could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. In the beginning of 2023, the newly formed government commenced a legislative process to effect changes in the Israeli legal system. Certain financial, legal, and commercial organizations and entities have claimed that such changes will weaken the Israeli legal system and, as a result, could lead to negative impact on the economic and financial conditions of the State of Israel. At this stage, where the proposed legislation has not become effective, and its scope is not fully determined, we cannot assess the possible impacts of these changes and their likelihood. Changes in the Israeli economy could make it more difficult for us to operate our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operation, and cash flow. 25 It may be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce any judgments obtained against us or some of our directors or officers. It may be difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against any of our officers and directors who are based in Israel. It may not be possible for United States investors to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under federal securities laws. Moreover, we have been advised that Israel does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and Israel would permit effective enforcement of criminal penalties of the federal securities laws. Even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that the Israeli law, and not U.S. law, is applicable to the claim. Further, if U.S. law is found to be applicable, certain content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process, and certain matters of procedure would still be governed by the Israeli law. Consequently, you may be effectively prevented from pursuing remedies under U.S. federal and state securities laws against us or any of our non-U.S. directors or officers. Exchange rate fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. Dollar may negatively affect our earnings. Our reporting and functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Our revenues are currently primarily payable in U.S. dollars and we expect our future revenues to be denominated primarily in U.S. dollars. However, some of our expenses are in New Israeli Shekels (NIS) and as a result, we are exposed to the currency fluctuation risks relating to the recording of our expenses in U.S. dollars. We may, in the future, decide to enter into currency hedging transactions. These measures, however, may not adequately protect us from material adverse effects. Exchange rate movements have impacted and may continue to impact our consolidated revenues and operating results. It is particularly difficult to forecast exchange rate movements and unanticipated currency fluctuations have affected and could continue to affect our financial results and cause our results to differ from investor expectations or our own guidance in any future periods. Volatility in exchange rates and global financial markets is expected to continue due to political and economic uncertainty globally Certain technology developed and used by us received Israeli government grants for certain research and development activities. The terms of those grants require us to satisfy specified conditions in addition to repayment of the grants upon certain events. The research and development efforts that contributed to certain technology used by us was financed in part through grants from the IIA to Medigus, which was subsequently transferred to ScoutCam Ltd. (for more information about such agreements, refer to CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE below). The terms of such grants require ScoutCam Ltd. to comply with the requirements of the Innovation Law. When a company develops know-how, technology or products using IIA grants, the terms of these grants and the Innovation Law restrict the transfer outside of Israel of such know-how, and the manufacturing or manufacturing rights of such products, technologies or know-how, without the prior approval of the IIA. Therefore, if aspects of our technologies are deemed to have been developed with IIA funding, the discretionary approval of an IIA committee would be required for any transfer to third parties outside of Israel of know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to those aspects of such technologies. We may not receive those approvals. Furthermore, the IIA may impose certain conditions on any arrangement under which it permits us to transfer technology or development out of Israel. The transfer of IIA-supported technology or know-how or manufacturing or manufacturing rights related to aspects of such technologies outside of Israel may involve the payment of significant penalties and other amounts, depending upon the value of the transferred technology or know-how, the amount of IIA support, the time of completion of the IIA-supported research project and other factors. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know-how developed with IIA funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the IIA. 26 We may become subject to claims for remuneration or royalties for assigned service invention rights by our employees, which could result in litigation and adversely affect our business. A significant portion of our intellectual property has been developed by our employees in the course of their employment for us. Under the Israeli Patent Law, 5727-1967, or the Patent Law, inventions conceived by an employee in the course and as a result of or arising from his or her employment with a company are regarded as service inventions, which belong to the employer, absent a specific agreement between the employee and employer giving the employee service invention rights. The Patent Law also provides that if there is no such agreement between an employer and an employee, the Israeli Compensation and Royalties Committee, or the Committee, a body constituted under the Patent Law, will determine whether the employee is entitled to remuneration for his inventions. Recent case law clarifies that the right to receive consideration for service inventions can be waived by the employee and that in certain circumstances, such waiver does not necessarily have to be explicit. The Committee will examine, on a case-by-case basis, the general contractual framework between the parties, using interpretation rules of the general Israeli contract laws. Further, the Committee has not yet determined one specific formula for calculating this remuneration (but rather uses the criteria specified in the Patent Law). Although we generally enter into assignment-of-invention agreements with our employees pursuant to which such individuals assign to us all rights to any inventions created in the scope of their employment or engagement with us, we may face claims demanding remuneration in consideration for assigned inventions. As a consequence of such claims, we could be required to pay additional remuneration or royalties to our current and/or former employees, or be forced to litigate such claims, which could negatively affect our business. Item 1b. unresolved staff comments Not applicable. Item 2. properties We do not own property and currently lease our principal corporate office and corporate headquarters, which is also our registered office, and is located at Industrial Park, P.O. Box 3030, Omer, Israel 8496500. Our Omer facility, part of which we sublease to a third party, include approximately 1,356 square meters of office and laboratory space. In addition, we lease offices in Raman Gan, Israel and Haifa, Israel. We believe our leased office is sufficient to meet our current needs. item 3. legal proceedings Three of our European patents in our patent family related to Small Diameter Video Camera Heads and Medical Devices and Visualization Probes are currently in oppositional proceedings before the Opposition Division of the EP Patent Office. One U.S. patent of the same family is currently under reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. For additional information about these proceedings refer to PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND TECHNOLOGY above. Other than the above, we are not aware of any pending legal proceedings to which we are a party, or to which any director, officer or affiliate of our Company, or any owner of record or beneficially of more than 5% of any class of our voting securities, is a party adverse to us or has a material interest adverse to us. item 4. mine safety disclosures. Not applicable. 27 part II item 5. market for registrants common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases Market Information Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB under the symbol SCTC. Trading in stocks quoted on the OTCQB is often thin and is characterized by wide fluctuations in trading prices due to many factors that may be unrelated to a companys operations or business prospects. We cannot assure you that there will be a market in the future for our common stock. OTCQB securities are not listed or traded on the floor of an organized national or regional stock exchange. Instead, OTCQB securities transactions are conducted through a telephone and computer network connecting dealers in stocks. OTCQB issuers are traditionally smaller companies that do not meet the financial and other listing requirements of a regional or national stock exchange. Holders As of December 31, 2022, there were 35 stockholders of record of our common stock and 7,121,737 shares of our common stock outstanding. The number of stockholders of record does not include beneficial owners of our common stock, whose shares are held in street name in the names of various brokers, dealers, clearing agencies, banks, and other fiduciaries. Dividends We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain future earnings, if any, to increase our working capital and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Equity Compensation Plan Information 2020 Share Incentive Plan We have adopted the 2020 Share Incentive Plan, or the 2020 Plan, under which we may grant equity-based incentive awards to attract, motivate, and retain the talent for which we compete. Authorized Shares . The maximum number of ordinary shares available for issuance under the 2020 Plan is equal to the sum of 1,824,717 shares, or such number as our board of directors may determine from time to time. Administration. Our board of directors, or a duly authorized committee of our board of directors, will administer the 2020 Plan. Under the 2020 Plan, the administrator has the authority, subject to applicable law, to interpret the terms of the 2020 Plan and any award agreements or awards granted thereunder, designate recipients of awards, determine and amend the terms of awards, including the exercise price of an option award, the fair market value of an ordinary share, the time and vesting schedule applicable to an award or the method of payment for an award, accelerate or amend the vesting schedule applicable to an award, prescribe the forms of agreement for use under the 2020 Plan, and take all other actions and make all other determinations necessary for the administration of the 2020 Plan. The administrator also has the authority to amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the 2020 Plan or terminate the 2020 Plan at any time before the date of expiration of its ten year term. Eligibility. The 2020 Plan provides for granting awards under various tax regimes, including, without limitation, in compliance with Section 102 of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance (New Version), 5721-1961 (the Ordinance), and Section 3(i) of the Ordinance and for awards granted to our United States employees or service providers, including those who are deemed to be residents of the United States for tax purposes, Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) and Section 409A of the Code. Section 102 of the Ordinance allows employees, directors, and officers who are not controlling shareholders and are considered Israeli residents to receive favorable tax treatment for compensation in the form of shares or options. Our non-employee service providers and controlling shareholders may only be granted options under section 3(i) of the Ordinance, which does not provide for similar tax benefits. Grant. All awards granted pursuant to the 2020 Plan will be evidenced by an award agreement, in a form approved, from time to time, by the administrator in its sole discretion. The award agreement will set forth the terms and conditions of the award, including the type of award, number of shares subject to such award, vesting schedule and conditions (including performance goals or measures), and the exercise price, if applicable. Certain awards under the 2020 Plan may constitute or provide for a deferral of compensation, subject to Section 409A of the Code, which may impose additional requirements on the terms and conditions of such awards. 28 Each award will expire seven years from the date of the grant thereof, unless such shorter term of expiration is otherwise designated by the administrator. Awards. The 2020 Plan provides for the grant of stock options (including incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options), shares of common stock, restricted shares, restricted share units, and other share-based awards. Options granted under the 2020 Plan to our employees who are U.S. residents may qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, or may be non-qualified stock options. The exercise price of a stock option may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the underlying share on the date of grant (or 110% in the case of ISOs granted to certain significant stockholders). Exercise. An award under the 2020 Plan may be exercised by providing the company with a written or electronic notice of exercise and full payment of the exercise price for such shares underlying the award, if applicable, in such form and method as may be determined by the administrator and permitted by applicable law. An award may not be exercised for a fraction of a share. With regard to tax withholding, exercise price, and purchase price obligations arising in connection with awards under the 2020 Plan, the administrator may, in its discretion, accept cash, provide for net withholding of shares in a cashless exercise mechanism, or direct a securities broker to sell shares and deliver all or a part of the proceeds to the Company or the trustee. Transferability. Other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution, or as otherwise provided under the 2020 Plan, neither the options nor any right in connection with such options are assignable or transferable. Termination of Employment. For grantees who terminated their employment with the Company or any of its affiliates prior to July 5, 2022, all vested and exercisable awards held by such grantees as of the date of termination may be exercised within three months, unless otherwise determined by the administrator. For grantees who terminated their employment with the Company or any of its affiliates after July 5, 2022, all vested and exercisable awards held by such grantees as of the date of termination may be exercised within three years, unless otherwise determined by the administrator. After such three month or three year period, as applicable, all such unexercised awards will terminate, and the shares covered by such awards shall again be available for issuance under the 2020 Plan. In the event of termination of a grantees employment or service with the company or any of its affiliates due to such grantees death, permanent disability, or retirement, all vested and exercisable awards held by such grantee as of the date of termination may be exercised by the grantee or the grantees legal guardian, estate, or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the award by bequest or inheritance, as applicable, within twelve months after such date of termination, unless otherwise provided by the administrator. Any awards which are unvested as of the date of such termination or which are vested but not then exercised within the twelve month period following such date, will terminate and the shares covered by such awards shall again be available for issuance under the 2020 Plan. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, if a grantees employment or services with the company or any of its affiliates is terminated for cause (as defined in the 2020 Plan), all outstanding awards held by such grantee (whether vested or unvested) will terminate on the date of such termination and the shares covered by such awards shall again be available for issuance under the 2020 Plan. 29 Transactions. In the event of a share split, reverse share split, share dividend, recapitalization, combination, or reclassification of our shares, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares effected without receipt of consideration by the company (but not including the conversion of any convertible securities of the company), the administrator in its sole discretion shall make an appropriate adjustment in the number of shares related to each outstanding award and to the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2020 Plan, to the class and kind of shares subject to the 2020 Plan, as well as the exercise price per share of each outstanding award, as applicable, the terms and conditions concerning vesting and exercisability, and the term and duration of outstanding awards, or any other terms that the administrator adjusts in its discretion, or the type or class of security, asset, or right underlying the award (which need not be only that of the Company, and may be that of the surviving corporation or any affiliate thereof or such other entity party to any of the above transactions); provided that any fractional shares resulting from such adjustment shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share unless otherwise determined by the administrator. In the event of a distribution of a cash dividend to all shareholders, the administrator may determine, without the consent of any holder of an award, that the exercise price of an outstanding and unexercised award shall be reduced by an amount equal to the per share gross dividend amount distributed by the Company, subject to applicable law. In the event of a merger or consolidation of our company, or a sale of all, or substantially all, of the Companys shares or assets, or other transaction having a similar effect on the Company, or change in the composition of the board of directors, or liquidation or dissolution, or such other transaction or circumstances that the board of directors determines to be a relevant transaction, then without the consent of the grantee, the administrator may but is not required to (i) cause any outstanding award to be assumed or substituted by such successor corporation, or (ii) regardless of whether or not the successor corporation assumes or substitutes the award (a) provide the grantee with the option to exercise the award as to all or part of the shares, and may provide for an acceleration of vesting of unvested awards, or (b) cancel the award and pay in cash, shares of the company, the acquirer, or other corporation which is a party to such transaction, or other property as determined by the administrator as fair in the circumstances. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the administrator may upon such event amend, modify, or terminate the terms of any award as it shall deem, in good faith, appropriate. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities On March 27 , 2023, the Company issued 3,294,117 units to certain investors in consideration of $14 million. Each such unit consisted of (i) one share of the Companys common stock and (ii) one warrant to purchase one share of common stock with an exercise price of $5.50 per share. Each warrant is exercisable for three years from the date of issuance. The shares of common stock and warrants were issued in a private placement pursuant to Regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the period from January 1, 2022, to December 31, 2022, we did not purchase any of our equity securities. Item 6. [Reserved] 30 item 7. managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Forward-looking Statements for a discussion of the uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on March 22, 2013, under the name Intellisense Solutions Inc. We were initially engaged in the business of developing web portals to allow companies and individuals to engage in the purchase and sale of vegetarian food products over the Internet. However, were not able to execute our original business plan, develop significant operations, or achieve commercial sales. On December 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding share capital of ScoutCam Ltd. Following this transaction, we integrated and fully adopted ScoutCam Ltd.s business into our Company as our primary business activity. On December 31, 2019, we changed our name to ScoutCam Inc. Through ScoutCam Ltd., we are a pioneer in the development, production, and marketing of innovative Predictive Maintenance (PdM) and Condition Based Monitoring (CBM) technologies, providing visual sensing and AI-based video analytics solutions for critical systems in the aviation, maritime, industrial non-destructing-testing industries, transportation, and energy industries. Some of our products utilize our unique micro visualization technology in medical devices for complex and minimally invasive medical procedures. Our technology includes proven video technologies and products amalgamated into a first-of-its-kind, FDA-cleared minimally invasive surgical device. At the present time, we derive a substantial portion of our revenue from applications of our micro visualization technology within the medical field. Our unique video-based sensors, embedded software, and AI algorithms are being deployed in hard-to-reach locations and harsh environments across a variety of PdM and CBM use cases. Our solution allows maintenance and operations teams visibility into areas which are inaccessible under normal circumstances, or where the operating ambience otherwise is not suitable for continuous real-time monitoring, and has various applications which have relevancy in a wide range of industry segments that utilize complicated mechanics requiring ongoing monitoring and predictive maintenance applications. Our current business model is a business-to-business (B2B) approach in which we seek to identify target businesses interested in integrating our micro visualization technology or commissioning individual projects using our technology. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K, we believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Development Services Revenue and Contract Liabilities We determine at contract inception whether development services are distinct from the performance obligation to manufacture the product under development. Revenues from development services that we determine as distinct from our performance obligation to manufacture the product under development are recognized over the period of the applicable service contract. Revenues from development services that we determine as not distinct from our performance obligation to manufacture the product under development are deferred until commencement of manufacturing and are recognized over the manufacturing term. As a result, during the year 2021, we have deferred all service revenues billed by us and the respective service costs. 31 Stock-Based Compensation We apply the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, CompensationStock Compensation , or ASC 718, for stock-based awards granted to employees, directors, and other providers for their services. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. We estimate the fair value of each stock option grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Calculating the fair value of stock-based awards requires that we make subjective assumptions. Pursuant to ASC 718, we measure stock-based awards granted to employees, members of the board of directors and other providers at fair value on the date of grant and recognize the corresponding stock-based compensation expense of those awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires a number of assumptions, of which the most significant are the stock price volatility and the expected option term. Our expected dividend rate is zero since we do not currently pay cash dividends and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Each of the above factors requires us to use judgment and make estimates in determining the percentages and time periods used for the calculation. If we were to use different percentages or time periods, the fair value of option awards could be materially different. We recognize stock-based compensation cost for option awards on an accelerated basis over the employees requisite service period, net of estimated forfeitures. Volatility is derived from the historical volatility of publicly traded set of peer companies. The risk-free interest rates used in the Black-Scholes calculations are based on the prevailing U.S. Treasury yield as determined by the U.S. Federal Reserve. We have not paid dividends and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, no dividend yield was assumed for purposes of estimating the fair value of our stock-based compensation. The weighted average expected life of options was estimated individually in respect of each grant. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2022 and the Year Ended December 31, 2021 Overview The Companys primary business activities during 2022 were: During the second quarter of 2022, the Company completed the development of a product relating to a customer-specific project for a Fortune 500 multinational healthcare corporation, and moved from the development phase of the project to its production phase. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recognized development services revenues and related development costs that had been previously deferred. The amounts were recognized based on the expected manufacturing term of the product, which the Company estimates at seven years. enlarging focus on R&D activities in the domain of I4.0 (including PdM and CBM in sectors such as aerospace, maritime energy and other heavy machinery, engines and complicated mechanics which have a need for monitoring and predictive maintenance applications). The main effect of this activity was an increase in the number of employees to enable the Company to manage the anticipated increased workload and solution development. The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: 2022 2021 % Change Revenues 665,000 387,000 72 % Cost of Revenues 1,631,000 1,108,000 47 % Gross Loss (966,000 ) (721,000 ) 34 % Research and development expenses 4,197,000 2,002,000 110 % Sales and marketing expense 699,000 908,000 (23 )% General and administrative expenses 3,577,000 5,481,000 (35 )% Operating Loss (9,439,000 ) (9,112,000 ) 4 % Revenues As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers. 32 For the year ended December 31, 2022, we generated revenues of $665,000, an increase of $278,000, or 72%, from 2021 revenues. The increase in revenues was primarily due to the completion of development of the product relating to our miniature camera solution with a Fortune 500 company and moving to production stage. Total revenues recorded from our miniature camera solution with the Fortune 500 company during 2022, amounted to approximately $538,000. We did not record any revenue from our miniature camera solution with the Fortune 500 company during 2021. This increase in revenues was partly offset by the following: - Total revenues recorded from A.M. Surgical during 2021 amounted to approximately $199,000. We did not record any revenue from A.M. Surgical during 2022. - A decrease of $61,000 due to an overall decrease in sales of the Companys component products to occasional customers. Remaining performance obligations (RPO) represents contracted revenue that have not yet been recognized, which include deferred revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. As of December 31, 2022, the total RPO amounted to $3.6 million, which we expect to recognize over the expected manufacturing term of the product under development. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022, were $1,631,000, an increase of $523,000, or 47%, compared to cost of revenues of $1,108,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to: - An increase in payroll expenses due to additional employee recruitments (such as in the areas of procurement, production planning and control, engineering, and quality inspectors) to support the transition to serial production for the Fortune 500 customer. - In the second quarter of 2022, the Company completed the development service stage of its miniature camera solution and moved to the production stage. As a result, the Company recognized expenses of $180,000 during the year ended December 31, 2022, based on the expected manufacturing term of the product. Gross Loss Gross loss for the year ended December 31, 2022, was $966,000, an increase of $245,000, or 34%, compared to a gross loss of $721,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to increase in cost of revenues partially offset by an increase in revenue as described above. Research and Development Expenses Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our new and existing products. These expenses primarily consist of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for personnel engaged in research and development functions, consulting, and professional fees related to research and development activities, prototype materials, facility costs, and other allocated expenses, which include expenses for rent and maintenance of our facility, utilities, depreciation, and other supplies. We expense research and development costs as incurred. 33 Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, were $4,197,000, an increase of $2,195,000, or 110%, compared to $2,002,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll expenses (including stock-based compensation) due to additional employee recruitments, materials and subcontractors, rent and maintenance expenses due to enlarging focus on R&D activities in the domain of I4.0. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase as we continue to develop our products and service and recruit additional research and development employees to the I4.0 domain. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel costs, consulting services, promotional materials, demonstration equipment, and certain allocated facilities infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, were $699,000, a decrease of $209,000, or 23%, compared to $908,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to reductions in sales and marketing costs in the medical field. We expect that our selling and marketing expenses will increase as we increase our selling and marketing efforts in the I4.0 domain. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily consist of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, and administrative functions. General and administrative expenses also include direct and allocated facility-related costs as well as professional fees for legal, patent, consulting, investor, public relations, accounting, auditing, tax services, and insurance costs. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022, were $3,577,000, a decrease of $1,904,000, or 35%, compared to $5,481,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease was primarily due to: - A decrease in IP expenses of $506,000. - A decrease in stock-based compensation of $580,000. - A decrease in professional services of $334,000, mainly due to expenses of $206,000 in expenses incurred in 2021 related to our efforts to uplist to Nasdaq. - Cancellation of a provision of $129,000 related to additional taxes due following entrance into an agreement with the Israeli Tax Authority. In September 2021, the Company accrued an amount of approximately NIS 740,000 ($229,000) for additional taxes due following a VAT audit by the Israeli Tax Authority for the years 2019-2021. In July 2022, the Company reached an agreement with the Israeli Tax Authority, according to which the amount due in additional taxes was reduced to approximately NIS 340,000 ($100,000). Operating loss We incurred an operating loss of $9,439,000 for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of $327,000, or 4%, compared to operating loss of $9,112,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in operating loss was primarily due to increases in gross loss and expenses related to research and development, partially offset by decrease in general and administrative expenses and sales and marketing expenses. 34 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2021 and the Year Ended December 31, 2020 Overview The Companys primary business activities during 2021 were: completion of R&D and transition to the serial production in connection with a customer-specific project for a Fortune 500 multinational healthcare corporation; and enlarging its focus on R&D activities in the domain of I4.0 (including PdM and CBM in sectors such as the aviation, energy and automotive). The main effect of this activity was an increase in the number of employees to enable the Company to manage the anticipated increased workload and solution development. Other major activities were the following: - Expanding marketing activities, including the recruitment of VP Business Development for Industry 4.0, and launching a multi-platform digital marketing campaign; - Extensive activity in connection with the Companys IP, including submissions of new patent applications as well as maintenance, defense, and commercialization efforts of existing patents; - Increased operation expenses in order to improve the current Companys R&D capabilities; - Increase in research and development activities, including the development of new products and the improvement of existing technology, and the examination of additional applications for our visualization solutions, including in the domains of PdM and CBM, as well as additional industries outside of the medical, defense, and aerospace fields, including sectors such as automotive, industrial non-destructing-testing industries, automotive and energy; and - Investment in capital expenses to provide the necessary facilities, IT, and lab tools for our newly recruited employees and to upgrade the Companys production and quality control capabilities. The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: 2021 2020 % Change Revenues 387,000 491,000 (21 )% Cost of Revenues 1,108,000 994,000 11 % Gross Loss (721,000 ) (503,000 ) 43 % Research and development expenses 2,002,000 725,000 176 % Sales and marketing expense 908,000 443,000 105 % General and administrative expenses 5,481,000 3,035,000 81 % Operating Loss (9,112,000 ) (4,706,000 ) 94 % Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2021, we generated revenues of $387,000, a decrease of $104,000, or 21%, from 2020 revenues. The decrease in revenues was primarily due to sales of products to A.M. Surgical. Total sales to A.M. Surgical during year ended December 31, 2021 amounted to approximately $199,000, a decrease from approximately $383,000 in 2020. This decrease was partially offset by increase in the sales of our products to other customers. Remaining performance obligations (RPO) represents contracted revenue that has not yet been recognized, which includes deferred revenue and amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. As of December 31, 2021, the total RPO amounted to $3.2 million, which we expect to recognize over the expected manufacturing term of the product under development. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $1,108,000, an increase of $114,000, or 11%, compared to cost of revenues of $994,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll expenses (including stock-based compensation) as a result of hiring additional employees as part of the transition to the production stage with respect to the contract with a Fortune 500 multinational healthcare corporation, partially offset by decrease in materials as a result of a decrease in revenues. 35 Gross Loss Gross loss for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $721,000, an increase of $218,000, or 43%, compared to a gross loss of $503,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to a decrease in revenues and an increase in cost of revenues as described above. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $2,002,000, an increase of $1,277,000, or 176%, compared to $725,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to an increase in payroll expenses (including stock-based compensation) due to additional employee recruitments, materials and subcontractors, and because we have recently begun examining additional applications for our micro ScoutCam portfolio outside of the medical, defense and aerospace fields, including in sectors such as automotive, industrial non-destructing-testing industries, automotive, and energy. In addition, there was an increase in R&D payroll expenses in 2021 due to the fact that during 2020 a substantial part of the payroll expenses was capitalized to contract fulfillment asset and was not recognized as expenses in profit and loss. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase as we continue to develop our products and service and recruit additional research and development employees to the I4.0 domain. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $908,000, an increase of $465,000, or 105%, compared to $443,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to expanding marketing activity, including the recruitment of a VP Business Development in Industry 4.0, hiring consultants and launching a multi-platform digital marketing campaign. We expect that our selling and marketing expenses will increase as we continue to increase our selling and marketing efforts. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $5,481,000, an increase of $2,446,000, or 81%, compared to $3,035,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to: an increase of $675,000 in IP expenses due to maintenance, defense, and commercialization efforts of existing patents; the provision of $229,000 due to a VAT audit by the Israeli Tax Authority; an increase of $528,000 in stock-based compensation due to new option grants; expenses of approx. $206,000 related to our efforts to uplist to Nasdaq; an increase in in payroll expenses due to the hiring of additional employees, including a new CEO and controller, and a shift in the position of the CFO from part-time to full-time; and an increase in professional services expenses due to the hiring of a financial consultant, HR consultant, the appointment of new directors and additional hires. 36 Operating loss We incurred an operating loss of $9,112,000 for the year ended December 31, 2021, an increase of $4,406,000, or 94%, compared to operating loss of $4,706,000 for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in operating loss was primarily due to increases in expenses related to general and administrative, research and development, and sales and marketing, as described above. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $10.1 million and short-term deposits of $3 million compared to cash and cash equivalents of $8.6 million and short-term deposits of $11 million as of December 31, 2021. In addition, as of December 31, 2022, we incurred an accumulated deficit of $24.8 million compared to $15.3 million as of December 31, 2021. Our primary sources of liquidity to date have been from fund raising and warrant exercises. Additional Cash Requirements We plan to continue to invest for long-term growth, and therefore we expect that our expenses will increase. We currently believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits will allow our to fund ours operating plan through at least the next 12 months. We expect our expenses will increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue the research and development and the scale up process of our I4.0 solutions. We expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution. Furthermore, we will continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. We may raise these funds through equity financing, debt financing, or other sources, which may result in further dilution in the equity ownership of our common stock. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain operations at a level sufficient for investors to obtain a return on their investment in our common stock, or that we will be able to raise sufficient capital required to implement our business plan on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we are successful in raising sufficient capital to implement our business plan, we will, most likely, continue to be unprofitable for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate our research and development programs or future commercialization efforts. Cash Flows Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for headcount-related expenditures, research and development costs, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses, professional services cost, and costs related to our facilities. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected due to the expected increase of spending on our business and our working capital requirements. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2022 and the Year Ended December 31, 2021 The following table sets forth the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021 (in dollars): 2022 2021 Cash used in Operating Activities (6,095,000 ) (5,886,000 ) Cash provided by (used in) Investing Activities 7,882,000 (11,595,000 ) Cash provided by Financing Activities - 22,559,000 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $6.1 million, consisting of net loss of $9.5 million, partially offset by a non-cash benefit of $2.1 million and a favorable net change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.3 million. Our non-cash benefit consisted primarily of non-cash charges of $1.6 million for stock-based compensation. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects cash inflows from changes in contract liability of $1.2 million. 37 During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $5.9 million, consisting of net loss of $9 million, partially offset by a non-cash benefit of $2 million and a favorable net change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.1 million. Our non-cash benefit consisted primarily of non-cash charges of $2 million for stock-based compensation. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects cash inflows from changes in contract liability of $1.6 million partially offset by cash outflows from changes in contract fulfillment assets of $0.5 million. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2022, cash provided by investing activities was $7.9 million, consisting mainly of withdrawal, net of short-term deposits. During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million, consisting of investment in short-term deposits of $11 million and purchases of property and equipment of $0.6 million. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $22.6 million, consisting primarily of $19.1 million from cash proceeds from issuance of shares and warrants in a private placement and $3.5 million proceeds from exercise of outstanding warrants. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2021 and the Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table sets forth the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 (in dollars): 2021 2020 Cash used in Operating Activities (5,886,000 ) (4,187,000 ) Cash used in Investing Activities (11,595,000 ) (276,000 ) Cash provided by Financing Activities 22,559,000 4,506,000 Operating Activities Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for headcount-related expenditures, research and development costs, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses, professional services cost and costs related to our facilities. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected due to the expected increase of spending on our business and our working capital requirements. During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $5.9 million, consisting of net loss of $9 million, partially offset by a non-cash benefit of $2 million and an favorable net change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.1 million. Our non-cash benefit consisted primarily of non-cash charges of $2 million for stock-based compensation. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects cash inflows from changes in contract liability of $1.6 million partially offset by cash outflows from changes in contract fulfillment assets of $0.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $4.2 million, consisting of net loss of $4.7 million, non-cash charges of $1.1 million and a unfavorable net change in operating assets and liabilities of $0.6 million. Our non-cash charges consisted primarily of stock-based compensation expense of $1.1 million. The net change in our operating assets and liabilities primarily reflects cash outflows from the changes in contract fulfillment assets of $1.1 million, accrued expenses and other of $0.4 million and other assets of $0.3 million, partially offset by cash inflows from changes in inventory of $0.7 million and change in contract liability of $0.3 million. 38 Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $11.6 million, consisting of investment in short-term deposits of $11 million and purchases of property and equipment of $0.6 million. During the year ended December 31, 200, cash used in investing activities was $0.3 million, consisting of purchases of property and equipment. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $22.6 million, consisting primarily of $19.1 million from cash proceeds from issuance of shares and warrants in a private placement and $3.5 million proceeds from exercise of outstanding warrants. During the year ended December 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $4.5 million, consisting primarily of $2.9 million from cash proceeds from issuance of shares and warrants and $1.8 million proceeds from exercise of warrants.