item 7. managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical information, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements for a discussion of the uncertainties and assumptions associated with these statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Nevada on March 22, 2013, under the name Intellisense Solutions Inc. On December 30, 2019, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding share capital of ScoutCam Ltd. and, on December 31, 2029, we changed our name to ScoutCam Inc. Following this acquisition, we integrated and fully adopted the acquired miniaturized imaging business into us as our primary business activity. On June 5, 2023, we changed our name to Odysight.ai Inc. We are a pioneer in the development, production and marketing of an innovative visualization and artificial intelligence, or AI, solution that deploys small cameras to monitor critical safety components in hard-to-reach locations and harsh environments, across various Predictive Maintenance, or PdM, and Condition Based Monitoring, or CBM, use cases. The Odysight TruVision solution streams visual information to our processing unit, an in-platform, high-performance AI/machine learning computer, allowing maintenance and operations teams, on the ground and during operations, visibility into areas that are inaccessible under normal operating conditions or where conditions are not suitable for continuous real-time monitoring. The rich and informative data, continuously collected and analyzed by our solution on our secured cloud, provides customers with real-time failure / anomaly detection, events and data recordings, interfacing with platform mission systems and providing real-time alerts and streaming video or images, all while training our algorithms for ongoing improved accuracy and prediction capabilities. Our customers benefit from increased safety, a reduction in downtime and lower maintenance costs for their monitored platforms, using the prediction capabilities of our solution to efficiently plan maintenance work on monitored components. Our solution aims to enhance safety and minimizes downtime by enabling real-time visual analysis of any failure occurrences. Additionally, we leverage advanced big data analytics to offer predictive insights throughout the entire system lifecycle. This includes efficient spare parts management and intelligent performance predictions, ensuring optimal system reliability and efficiency. 46 The Odysight TruVision solution is successfully used by NASA as we seek to reshape the aerospace, Industry 4.0, transportation and energy markets with a vison-based technology leveraging AI and machine learning to deliver innovative solutions that transform maintenance practices. As used in this Annual Report, Industry 4.0, or I4.0, refers to the integration of advanced technologies into manufacturing and industrial processes to create smart, interconnected systems for improved efficiency and productivity. Odysight solutions are already deployed in the aviation and medical sectors. Our customers include the Israeli Air Force, the Israeli Ministry of Defense, France-based Safran Aircraft Engines, a global international defense contractor, a leading Fortune 500 medical company as well as NASA, who came back to us for a repeat order. Historically, our revenue stream has been derived mainly from the medical sector. Our 2024 financial results reflect orders and agreements from both the medical and aerospace sectors. We have recently secured several contracts for our PdM and CBM systems with major government clients and defense and aviation companies and our backlog as of December 2024 of approximately $15 million (compared to approximately $2.6 million as of December 31, 2023) reflects mostly those contracts. Public Offering and Nasdaq Listing In February 2025, we closed a public offering, including the exercise of an over-allotment option granted to the underwriter in the public offering. The public offering and the over-allotment option exercise price was $6.50 per share. In the aggregate, we sold a total of 3,653,124 shares of common stock, generating gross proceeds of approximately $23.7 million, prior to the deduction of underwriting discounts, commissions and estimated offering expenses. Also in February 2025, listing was approved for our common stock, which began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol ODYS. Impact of the Ongoing War in Israel on Our Business On October 7, 2023, the Hamas terrorist organization launched a series of deadly terror attacks on civilian and military targets skirting the Gaza Strip in the southern part of Israel and fired rockets on many of the communities in southern and central Israel. Following the attack, Israels security cabinet declared war and commenced a military campaign in Gaza against Hamas. Since the outbreak of the war, the Hezbollah terrorist organization has regularly fired rockets into northern Israel and, in October 2024, Israel invaded southern Lebanon in response to these attacks. On November 27, 2024, Israel and Lebanon agreed to a ceasefire, the result of which is uncertain. During the course of the war, other terrorist organizations have fired rockets into Israel, such as various rebel militia groups in Syria and Iraq and the Houthi movement, which controls parts of Yemen. The Houthis movement has also attacked commercial shipping vessels in the Gulf of Aden and Red Sea. In April and October 2024, the Islamic Republic of Iran targeted various sites in Israel with waves of drones, cruise missiles and ballistic missiles. Israel responded on both occasions with air defenses and retaliatory strikes against Iran. The war has had significant economic, military and social consequences to Israel. To date the war has not had a material adverse effect on our business. While we have offices in Omer and Ramat Gan, Israel, neither of our sites is located near Israels relevant borders where the main impact of the war has been felt. Nevertheless, we have experienced some minor disruptions to our routine work, including some difficulties in traveling outside of Israel and occasional rocket fire on the municipalities where our offices are located, requiring our employees to take temporarily shelter for a few minutes at a time in on-site safe rooms. In addition, several of our executives and employees, including company officers such as our CEO, were called up to military reserve duty. As of the date of this Annual Report, our CEO is subject to military reserve duty a few days a month. We have taken various measures to mitigate the effects of the war, including adopting work-from-home measures, increased employee overtime and third-party outsourcing where needed, and reviewing our business continuity plan. In addition, with the backdrop of the ongoing conflict, some of our Israeli clients and potential clients have not prioritized conducting transactions with us, and the war may have caused some delays in their finalizing purchase orders. We do not believe that such delays have had a material impact on our business. The war has also increased negative sentiments regarding Israel and Israeli companies in the international community. For example, Israeli defense companies were initially banned from participating in two prestigious industry conferences in France during 2024; however, both bans were later overturned by French courts and did not impact our participation in such conferences. Conversely, as a result of the intensive flight hours flown by all Israeli Air Force platforms as a result of the war and an enhanced Israel Ministry of Defense budget, we have experienced a growing interest in our technology from Israeli government agencies and R&D programs, which may lead to more rapid assimilation of our technology into relevant platforms than we had anticipated prior to the commencement of the war, positively affecting on our business activity. See also Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to our Operations in Israel Our headquarters and other significant operations are located in Israel and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel. 47 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which we have prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. We evaluate these estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to our financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report, we believe that the following accounting policies are the most critical for fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. Revenues Ours revenues are measured according to the ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606). Under ASC 606, revenues are measured according to the amount of consideration that the Company expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. Revenues are presented net of VAT. We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control over promised goods or services. For each performance obligation, we determine at contract inception whether it satisfies the performance obligation over time or satisfies the performance obligation at a point in time. Performance obligations are satisfied over time if one of the following criteria is met: (a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Companys performance; (b) the Companys performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced; or (c) the Companys performance does not create an asset with an alternative use for the Company and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. If a performance obligation is not satisfied over time, we satisfy the performance obligation at a point in time. Revenues from product customization and development contracts in which the performance obligation is satisfied over time are recognized over the duration of the contract and commensurate with the progress of services. We measure the progress of services using the input method, based on the effort expended relative to the estimated total effort to satisfy the performance obligation. Revenues from product sales are recognized at a point in time when the customer obtains control of the Companys product, typically upon shipment to the customer. Indirect taxes collected from customers relating to product sales and remitted to governmental authorities are excluded from revenues. Stock-Based Compensation We apply the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, CompensationStock Compensation, or ASC 718, for stock-based awards granted to employees, directors and other providers for their services. Determining the amount of stock-based compensation to be recorded requires us to develop estimates of the fair value of stock options as of their grant date. We estimate the fair value of each stock option grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Calculating the fair value of stock-based awards requires that we make subjective assumptions. Pursuant to ASC 718, we measure stock-based awards granted to employees, members of the board of directors and other providers at fair value on the date of grant and recognize the corresponding stock-based compensation expense of those awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires a number of assumptions, of which the most significant are the stock price volatility and the expected option term. Our expected dividend rate is zero since we do not currently pay cash dividends and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. Each of the above factors requires us to use judgment and make estimates in determining the percentages and time periods used for the calculation. If we were to use different percentages or time periods, the fair value of option awards could be materially different. We recognize stock-based compensation cost for option awards on an accelerated basis over the employees requisite service period, and forfeitures are accounted for as they occur. Volatility is derived from the historical volatility of publicly traded set of peer companies. The risk-free interest rates used in the Black-Scholes calculations are based on the prevailing U.S. Treasury yield as determined by the U.S. Federal Reserve. We have not paid dividends and does not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, no dividend yield was assumed for purposes of estimating the fair value of our stock-based compensation. The weighted average expected life of options was estimated individually in respect of each grant. 48 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2024 and the Year Ended December 31, 2023 Overview Our primary business activity in 2024 was enlarging our focus on R&D activities in the domain of Industry 4.0, including PdM and CBM in sectors such as aerospace, maritime energy and other heavy machinery, engines and complicated mechanics which require ongoing monitoring and predictive maintenance applications. The main effect of this activity enabled us to accelerate our growth and support an increased workload and solution development for customers. The following table summarizes our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, together with the changes in those items in dollars and as a percentage: 2024 2023 % Change Revenues 3,964,000 3,033,000 31 % Cost of Revenues 2,807,000 2,524,000 11 % Gross Profit (Loss) 1,157,000 509,000 127 % Research and development expenses 6,884,000 5,602,000 23 % Sales and marketing expense 1,218,000 1,109,000 10 % General and administrative expenses 5,562,000 4,431,000 26 % Operating Loss (12,507,000 ) (10,633,000 ) 18 % Revenues As a result of the nature of our target market and the current stage of our development, a substantial portion of our revenue comes from a limited number of customers. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we generated revenues of $3,964,000, an increase of $931,000, or 31%, from 2023 revenues. The increase in revenues was primarily due to an increase in revenues from our vision-based platform solutions for PdM and CBM. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2024, were $2,807,000 an increase of $283,000, or 11%, compared to cost of revenues of $2,524,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to an increase in revenues. Gross Profit Gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2024 was $1,157,000, an increase of $648,000, or 127%, compared to a gross profit of $509,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The change was due both to an increase in revenues and to an increase in cost of revenues, as described above. Research and Development Expenses Research and development efforts are focused on new product development and on developing additional functionality for our new and existing products. These expenses primarily consist of employee-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for personnel engaged in research and development functions, consulting, and professional fees related to research and development activities, prototype materials, facility costs, and other allocated expenses, which include expenses for rent and maintenance of our facility, utilities, depreciation, and other supplies. We expense research and development costs as incurred. 49 Research and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 2024 were $6,884,000, an increase of $1,282,000, or 23%, compared to $5,602,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in research and development expenses was mainly due to the development of new products and the resulting increase in payroll and related expenses for new employee recruitment, an increase in stock-based compensation from new option grants and procuring materials and services of subcontractors for Industry 4.0 projects. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase as we continue to develop our products and services and recruit additional research and development employees due to increased focus on R&D activities in the domain of I4.0. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of payroll expenses, consulting services, promotional materials, exhibitions, demonstration equipment, and certain allocated facility infrastructure costs. Sales and marketing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2024 were $1,218,000, an increase of $109,0000, or 10%, compared to $1,109,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was mainly due to an increase in payroll and related expenses for new employee recruitment and an increase in stock-based compensation, partially offset by one-time expenses incurred during the year ended December 31, 2023 related to rebranding activities. We expect that our sales and marketing expenses will increase as we expand our selling and marketing efforts in the I4.0 domain. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses primarily consist of salaries and other related costs, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in executive, finance, and administrative functions. General and administrative expenses also include direct and allocated facility-related costs as well as professional fees for legal, patent, consulting, investor, public relations, accounting, auditing, tax services, and insurance costs. General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2024 were $5,562,000, an increase of $1,131,000, or 26%, compared to $4,431,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase was primarily due to: - an increase in professional services expenses including financial consultant, IR consultant, HR consultant and the appointment of new directors; - an increase in payroll and related expenses due to the recruitment of a new CFO and cash compensation bonuses paid to senior executives; and - an increase in stock-based compensation from new option grants. 50 Operating loss We incurred an operating loss of $12,507,000 for the year ended December 31, 2024, an increase of $1,874,000, or 18%, compared to operating loss of $10,633,000 for the year ended December 31, 2023. The increase in operating loss was due to increases in research and development expenses, general and administrative expenses and sales and marketing expense, each as described above, partially offset by an increase in gross profit. Backlog Backlog represents booked orders based on purchase orders or hard commitments but not yet recognized as revenue. Orders included in backlog may be cancelled or rescheduled by customers. A variety of conditions, both specific to the individual customer and generally affecting the customers industry, may cause customers to cancel, reduce or delay orders that were previously made or anticipated. We cannot assure the timely replacement of cancelled, delayed or reduced orders. Backlog is presented for supplemental informational purposes only and is not intended to be a substitute for any GAAP financial measures, including revenue or net income (loss), and, as calculated, may not be comparable to companies in other industries or within the same industry with similarly titled measures of performance. In addition, backlog should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Therefore, backlog should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Backlog as of December 31, 2024 was approximately $15 million compared to approximately $2.6 million as of December 31, 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of December 31, 2024, we had cash, cash equivalents and restricted deposit of $18.5 million compared to cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits of $17 million as of December 31, 2023. In addition, as of December 31, 2024, we incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $46 million, as compared to $34.2 million as of December 31, 2023. In February 2025, we closed a public offering, including the exercise of an over-allotment option granted to the underwriter in the public offering, at a price of $6.50 per share. In the aggregate, we issued 3,653,124 shares of common stock, generating gross proceeds of approximately $23.7 million, prior to the deduction of underwriting discounts, commissions and estimated offering expenses. Our primary sources of liquidity to date have been from fund-raising, revenues of customers and warrant exercises. Additional Cash Requirements We plan to continue to invest in long-term growth, and therefore we expect that our expenses will grow. We currently believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits will allow us to fund our operating plan through at least the next 12 months from the date of this Annual Report. We expect our expenses will increase in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we continue the research and development and the scale up Odysight solutions. We expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, manufacturing, and distribution. Furthermore, we will continue to incur additional costs associated with operating as a public company. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional capital before we become profitable from sales of our solutions and may do so to expand our business, pursue strategic investments, take advantage of financing opportunities or for other reasons. We may raise these funds through equity financing, debt financing, or other sources, which may result in further dilution in the equity ownership of our common stock. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain operations at a level sufficient for investors to obtain a return on their investment in our common stock, or that we will be able to raise sufficient capital required to implement our business plan on acceptable terms, if at all. Even if we are successful in raising sufficient capital to implement our business plan, we will, most likely, continue to be unprofitable for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we would be forced to delay, reduce, or eliminate our research and development programs or future commercialization efforts. 51 Cash Flows Our primary uses of cash from operating activities have been for headcount-related expenditures, research and development costs, manufacturing costs, marketing and promotional expenses, professional services cost, and costs related to our facilities. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected due to the expected increase in spending on our business and to meet our working capital requirements. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2024 and the Year Ended December 31, 2023 The following table sets forth the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 (in dollars): 2024 2023 Cash used in Operating Activities (8,217,000 ) (10,009,000 ) Cash provided by (used in) Investing Activities 7,637,000 (5,113,000 ) Cash provided by Financing Activities 9,818,000 13,809,000 Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, cash used in operating activities was $8.2 million, consisting of net loss of $11.8 million, partially offset by a non-cash benefit of $2.4 million and a favorable net change in operating assets and liabilities of $1.2 million. Our non-cash benefit consisted primarily of non-cash charges of $2.4 million for stock-based compensation. The favorable net change in our operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accrued compensation expenses of $0.6 million and decrease in inventory of $0.3 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in operating activities was $10 million, consisting of net loss of $9.4 million, partially offset by a non-cash benefit of $1.8 million and an unfavorable net change in operating assets and liabilities of $2.4 million. Our non-cash benefit consisted primarily of non-cash charges of $1.7 million for stock-based compensation. The unfavorable net change in our operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in accounts receivable of $1.3 million and decrease in contract liabilities of $1.3 million. Investing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, cash provided by investing activities was $7.6 million, consisting mainly of withdrawal of short terms deposits, net. During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities was $5.1 million, consisting mainly of investment of short-term deposits, net. Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2024, cash provided by financing activities was $9.8 million, consisting of cash proceeds from issuance of shares in a private placement, net of issuance costs. During the year ended December 31, 2023, cash provided by financing activities was $13.8 million, consisting of cash proceeds from issuance of shares and warrants in a private placement, net of issuance costs. 52 Contractual Obligations and Commitments Operating lease payments represent our commitment for future rent made leases for our offices in Israel and for vehicle leasing. The total future payments for our operating lease obligation as of December 31, 2024 were approximately $1.2 million. For additional details regarding our lease, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2024 included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined under SEC rules.