Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations and Risk Factors." Forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our revenue, costs of revenue, gross profits, margins and operating expenses; the impact of the global COVID-19 pandemic on our business and operations; trends in our key business metrics; our growth strategy and ability to compete; the sufficiency of our cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash provided by sales of our products and services to meet our liquidity needs; market or other opportunities arising from business combinations; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our internal networks and platform; our ability to increase our number of customers; our ability to sell additional products to and retain our existing customers; our ability to successfully expand in our existing markets and into new markets; our ability to effectively manage our growth and future expenses; our ability to expand our network of channel partners; our ability to form and expand partnerships with independent software vendors and system integrators; our ability to introduce new products, enhance existing products and address new use cases; our ability to add new integration partners; our ability to grow our international business; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to comply with modified or new laws and regulations applying to our business; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our anticipated investments in sales and marketing and research and development; our ability to comply with modified or new laws and regulations applying to our business, including GDPR (as defined below), and other privacy regulations that may be implemented in the future; the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial statements; our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us; and our ability to successfully integrate and realize the benefits of strategic acquisitions or investments, including our proposed acquisition of Auth0, Inc. (Auth0). Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors or circumstances that are beyond our control. Our actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to, risks detailed in Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as other documents that may be filed by us from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, except as required by law, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. Part I Item 1. Business Overview Okta is the leading independent identity management platform for the enterprise. Our vision is to enable everyone to safely use any technology, and we believe identity is the key to making that happen. Our mission is to bring simple and secure digital access to people and organizations everywhere. The Okta Identity Cloud is powered by our category-defining platform that enables our customers to securely connect the right people to the right technologies and services at the right time. The Okta Identity Cloud helps organizations effectively harness the power of cloud, mobile and web technologies by securing users and connecting them with the applications and technology they use. We designed the Okta Identity Cloud to provide organizations an integrated approach to managing and securing every identity in an organization. Every day, thousands of organizations and millions of people use Okta to securely access a wide range of cloud, mobile and web applications, on-premises servers, application program interfaces (APIs), IT infrastructure providers and services from a multitude of devices. Developers leverage our platform to securely and efficiently embed identity into the software they build, allowing them to focus on their core mission. Employees and contractors sign into the Okta Identity Cloud to seamlessly and securely access the applications they need to do their most important work. Organizations use our platform to collaborate with their partners, and to provide their customers with more modern and secure experiences online and via mobile devices. As we add new customers, users, developers and integrations to our platform, our business, customers, partners and users benefit from powerful network effects that increase the value and security of the Okta Identity Cloud. The acceleration of digital transformations, cloud modernization and changing consumer expectations to simple, secure digital experiences are driving a shift in how organizations manage consumer identities on the internet. Organizations are building secure consumer-facing applications and are turning to identity to optimize seamless and private user experiences. Our approach provides organizations with the scale, efficiency and security they need to build customer facing applications. Given the growth trends in the number of applications and cloud adoption, and the movement to remote workforces, identity is becoming the most critical layer of an organizations security. As organizations shift from network-based security models to a Zero Trust security model focusing on adaptive and context-aware controls, identity has become the most reliable way to manage user access and protect digital assets. Our approach to identity allows our customers to simplify and efficiently scale their security infrastructures across internal IT systems and external customer facing applications. We designed the Okta Identity Cloud to provide organizations an integrated approach to managing and securing all of their identities. Our platform allows our customers to easily provision their customers, employees, contractors, and partners, enabling any user to connect to any device, cloud or application, all with a simple, intuitive and consumer-like user experience. As of January 31, 2021, more than 10,000 customers across nearly every industry used the Okta Identity Cloud to secure and manage identities around the world. Our customers consist of leading global organizations ranging from the largest enterprises, to small and medium-sized businesses, universities, non-profits and government agencies. We partner with leading application, infrastructure and security vendors, such as Amazon Web Services, Cisco, CrowdStrike, Google Cloud, Microsoft, Netskope, Proofpoint, Salesforce, ServiceNow, VMware and Workday. We had over 7,000 integrations with cloud, mobile and web applications and IT infrastructure providers as of January 31, 2021, which while not directly correlated to revenue, shows the breadth and acceptance of our platform. We employ a Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) business model, and generate revenue primarily by selling multi-year subscriptions to our cloud-based offerings. We focus on acquiring and retaining our customers and increasing their spending with us through expanding the number of users who access the Okta Identity Cloud and up-selling additional products. We sell our products directly through our field and inside sales teams, as well as indirectly through our network of channel partners, including resellers, system integrators and other distribution partners. 5 On March 3, 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Auth0, Inc. (Auth0) pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement). Upon consummation of the transaction contemplated by the Merger Agreement, all outstanding shares of Auth0 capital stock, options, warrants, convertible securities, phantom equity and other outstanding equity interests will be cancelled in exchange for aggregate consideration of $6.5 billion in the form of shares of Class A common stock of the Company and assumed awards of corresponding Company equity interests, subject to customary purchase price adjustments and certain customary cash payouts in lieu of shares of Company Class A common stock, as provided by the Merger Agreement. The purchase price payable in shares of Class A common stock will be valued at $276.2147 per share (which price was calculated based on the daily volume-weighted average sales price per share of Company Class A common stock for the 20 trading days ending on February 26, 2021). The per share price of these shares has been fixed as of the Merger Agreement signing date, and the aggregate value of these shares will fluctuate based on changes in our share price between the signing and closing dates. Auth0 is an identity management platform for application developers that provides solutions to add authorization and authentication services to developer applications. The proposed transaction is expected to close during the Companys second quarter of fiscal 2022, the quarter ending July 31, 2021. The closing of this transaction is subject to certain customary closing conditions and approvals. The Okta Identity Cloud The Okta Identity Cloud is an independent and neutral cloud-based identity solution that allows our customers to integrate with nearly any application, service or cloud that they choose through our secure, reliable and scalable platform and cloud infrastructure. Our technological neutrality allows our customers to easily adopt the best technologies, and our platform is designed to securely connect users to the technology that they choose. We prioritize the compatibility of the Okta Identity Cloud with public clouds, on-premises infrastructures and hybrid clouds. Our customers use the Okta Identity Cloud to secure their workforces, to create solutions that make their partner networks more collaborative, and to provide more seamless and secure experiences for their customers or end users, which combined with our open approach, enables our customers to future-proof their environments. The Okta Identity Cloud can be used as the central system for an organizations connectivity, access, authentication and identity lifecycle management needs spanning all of its users, technology and applications. We enable our customers to easily deploy, manage and secure applications and devices, and to provision and support users across their IT environments, with a simple, intuitive, consumer-like user experience. Developers are similarly able to leverage a robust set of tools through the platform to quickly build custom cloud, mobile and web application experiences that leverage the breadth and depth of capabilities within the Okta Identity Cloud. Once deployed, we enable administrators to enforce contextual access management decisions based on conditions such as user identity, device, location, application identity, IP reputation and time of day. The Okta Identity Cloud is used by organizations in two distinct and powerful ways. Our customers use it to manage and secure their employees, contractors and partners, which we refer to as workforce identity. Our customers also use it to enable, manage and secure the identities of their own customers via the powerful APIs we have developed, which we refer to as customer identity. The Okta Identity Cloud is underpinned by Okta Platform Services which are the foundational platform components that power our product features. The Okta Identity Cloud for Workforce Identity In workforce identity use cases, the Okta Identity Cloud simplifies the way an organizations employees, contractors and partners connect to its applications and data from any device, while increasing efficiency and keeping IT environments secure. We enable organizations to provide their workforces with immediate and secure access to every application they need from any device they use, without requiring multiple credentials, which significantly enhances user connectivity and productivity. We offer our customers an additional security layer through our Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication product. Our Universal Directory product also serves as a system of record to help our customers organize, customize and manage their users. Our Lifecycle Management product enables customers to manage users access privileges through their entire lifecycle with a no-code approach that improves administrative efficiency and productivity. Our Advanced Server Access product is designed to significantly improve our customers ability to secure access to cloud-based and on-premises servers, while Okta Access Gateway enables our customers to extend the Okta Identity Cloud to their existing on-premises applications. The Okta Identity Cloud enables our customers to automate access across their growing ecosystem of employees, contractors and partners, increasing collaboration across their workforces. 6 The Okta Identity Cloud for Customer Identity In customer identity use cases, the Okta Identity Cloud enables organizations to transform their own customers experiences by empowering development teams to rapidly and securely build customer-facing cloud, mobile or web applications. We enable an organizations product team to layer our powerful identity platform into their cloud, web and mobile applications. This makes it easier for them to authenticate, manage, scale and secure their connections, enabling rapid time to market for the business. Organizations are able to centrally manage policy and API-level access across all their applications, leading to more seamless customer experiences that are personalized, engaging and secure. Okta Platform Services In order to enable customers and partners to address a wide range of identity use cases, we have built a set of modular components, called Okta Platform Services, which can be combined to build new features and tailored experiences faster. Okta Platform Services are available in Okta packaged products through APIs and software development kits (SDKs). Okta Platform Services can be used across both workforce and customer identity use cases. We expect to use Okta Platform Services to continue to enable new and expanded use cases and enable customers or third-party developers to build their own solutions based on an industry use case or unique customer need. Okta Platform Services include Oktas Identity Engine, Workflows, Devices, Integrations and Insights. Growth Strategy Key elements of our growth strategy are to: Execute with Our Platform Drive New Customer Growth . To increase our market share, we intend to continue to grow our customer base using a land-and-expand sales model, with a focus on key markets by size of customers, as well as key verticals, including highly-regulated sectors. Deepen Relationships Within Our Existing Customer Base . We plan to further increase revenue from our existing customers by cross-selling and up-selling additional and new products. We also believe we can expand our footprint by focusing on current customers that have deployed the Okta Identity Cloud for workforce identity, and expanding those customers use of our platform for customer identity, or vice versa. Expand Our Channel Partner Ecosystem . We also plan to expand our indirect sales network to leverage the sales efforts of resellers, system integrators and other distribution partners, and to increase the contribution we receive from these channel partners. Expand Our International Footprint . With 16% of our revenue generated outside of the United States in fiscal 2021, and our international revenue growing 46% from fiscal 2020 to fiscal 2021, we believe there is significant opportunity to continue to grow our international business. We believe global demand for our products will continue to be a long-term opportunity as organizations outside the United States fully embrace the transition to cloud computing, and larger international organizations take advantage of technology consolidation within their global locations. Increase Our Opportunities Innovate and Extend Our Platform with New Products . We intend to continue making significant investments in research and development, hiring top technical talent and maintaining an agile organization. In addition, we intend to selectively pursue acquisitions and strategic investments in businesses and technologies to extend our platform. By continuing to innovate, introduce new products and extend our platform to additional use cases, we believe that we can offer increasing value to our existing and potential customers. Extend Our Accessible Market with New Use Cases . As technology and our customers needs evolve, we plan to use our platform to help our customers address new challenges, regulatory requirements and use cases. Leverage Our Integrations . The Okta Integration Network is an extensive partner ecosystem, which includes over 7,000 integrations with cloud, mobile and web applications and IT infrastructure 7 providers. We plan to continue these partnerships as well as add new integration partners to enrich our user experience and expand our customer base. We view our investment in these partnerships as a force multiplier that enables us to build and promote complementary capabilities that benefit our customers. Expand our Developer Ecosystem . We want to empower every application developer to use the Okta Identity Platform to securely build authentication into any application. We believe that our secure and seamless access solutions enable developers to focus their time and attention on building their core application capabilities while relying on the Okta Identity Platform for their identity related requirements. We currently offer a free developer license, and we plan to create additional SDKs and APIs to make our platform more extensible and allow developers to build applications and services that extend its functionality. Leverage Our Unique Data Assets with Powerful Analytics . Our position at the intersection of people, devices, applications and infrastructure gives us unique access to powerful data, and the opportunity to provide differentiated insights based on that data, as well as predictive capabilities based on that data to help keep customers more secure. We expect the value of our analytics to our customer base will increase as customers continue to connect more devices, applications and users to their networks and as we add more customers. We also expect that our analytics ability will enable our customers to use our data and third-party data from our partners, to help customers make more informed and secure access decisions. We do not currently derive direct revenue from our unique data assets, but we may explore opportunities for monetization in the future. Mergers and Acquisitions and Investments . From time to time, we evaluate opportunities to acquire or invest in emerging and adjacent technologies to complement our organic investments and improve our products, services and customers experiences. We will continue to use these types of strategic levers as opportunities arise. Our Products The Okta Identity Cloud consists of an independent platform with a suite of products and services to manage and secure identities. We are continuously enhancing these products and services. Most of our products can be used for both customer identity and for workforce identity use cases. Our workforce identity products are consumed through web and mobile interfaces, and provide simple ways for IT organizations to manage identities for their employees, contractors and partners. For customer identity, our APIs are also used by developers to embed Okta identity functionality into their own customer-facing mobile or web applications. We continuously improve the Okta Identity Cloud through the release and development of additional products, features and services. Products Universal Directory . Universal Directory provides a centralized, cloud-based system of record to store and secure user, application and device profiles for an organization. Users and profiles stored in the directory can be used with our Single Sign-On product to manage passwords and authentication, or can be used by developers to store and authenticate the users of their applications. When used for workforce identity, Universal Directory becomes a customers system of record for all of its employees, contractors and partners. When used for customer identity, Universal Directory becomes a customer's secure system of record for management of all of its users. Single Sign-On . When used to manage and secure identities for a customers workforce, Single Sign-On enables users to access all of their applications, whether in the cloud or on-premise, from any device, with a single entry of their user credentials. We combine secure access, modern protocols, flexible policies and a consumer-like user experience to permit organizations to easily allow customers or partners to sign in to their applications with their existing identity information. Single Sign-On also enables built-in reporting and analytics that provide real-time search functionalities across users, devices, applications and the associated access and usage activity. When used for customer identity, Single Sign-On enables secure authentication for applications by external customers. Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication . Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication is a comprehensive, but simple-to-use, product that provides an additional layer of security for an organizations cloud, mobile and web applications and data. We offer an intelligent approach to security, built on contextual data. Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication includes a policy framework that is integrated with a broad set of cloud 8 and on-premises applications and network infrastructures. It offers adaptive, risk-based authentication that leverages data intelligence from across the Okta network of thousands of organizations. Lifecycle Management . Lifecycle Management enables IT organizations or developers to manage a user's identity throughout its entire lifecycle. It automates IT processes and ensures user accounts are created and deactivated at the appropriate times, including the workflow and policies needed to power those processes. With Okta Lifecycle Management, organizations can securely manage the entire identity lifecycle, from on-boarding to off-boarding, and ensure compliance requirements are met as user roles evolve and access levels change. API Access Management . API Access Management enables organizations to secure APIs as systems connect to each other. Access to these APIs is managed based on the user, which enables organizations to centrally maintain one set of permissions for any employee, partner or customer across every point of access. API Access Management reduces development time, boosts security, helps in achieving compliance and enables seamless end-user experiences by providing a unified portable service for authorizing secure and always available access to any API. Access Gateway . Access Gateway enables organizations to extend the Okta Identity Cloud, which is a cloud native platform, from the cloud to their existing on-premises applications, so that they can harness the benefits of Okta to manage all of their critical systems, whether in the cloud, on-premises or hybrid. Extending the benefits of the Okta Identity Cloud to hybrid IT environments delivers a single point of management for our customers administrators and a single location from which end users can access their critical applications. Advanced Server Access . Advanced Server Access offers continuous, contextual access management to secure cloud infrastructure. Organizations can continuously manage and secure access to on-premises Windows and Linux servers and across leading Infrastructure-as-a-Service vendors, including Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud Platform and Microsoft Azure. Advanced Server Access enables our customers to centralize access controls in a seamless manner to better mitigate the risk of credential theft, reuse, sprawl and abandoned administrative accounts. By focusing on identity, the one constant in an ever-changing technology and threat landscape, the Okta Identity Cloud provides our customers with a solution to solve their IT and security challenges, facilitate their adoption of a Zero Trust security model and enable their digital transformation. Our Technology We focus on engineering an intuitive, but comprehensive, platform to solve complex problems. Our pure cloud architecture is multi-tenant, encrypted and third-party validated. Our service also allows us to integrate into our customers on-premises components and hybrid configurations. One Platform with Differentiated Administration, User and Developer Experience The Okta Identity Cloud is built on one common platform and user interface framework, offering administrators and users a consistent, easy-to-use, consumer-like experience across our products. Our technology integrates with industry-leading browsers and mobile applications to provide seamless access to nearly any web or native mobile application. We also heavily leverage operating system management and security technologies across desktops, laptops and mobile devices to provide a transparent, but secure experience for users across a range of devices. These integrations allow us to seamlessly deliver connectivity use cases that previously required significant custom development to achieve. Robust Security Security is a mission-critical issue for Okta and for our customers. Our approach to security spans day-to-day operational practices to the design and development of our software to how customer data is segmented and secured within our multi-tenant platform. We ensure that access to our platform is securely delegated across an organization. Our source code is updated weekly, and there are audited and verifiable security checkpoints to ensure source code fidelity and continuous security review. We have attained multiple SOC 2 Type II Attestations, CSA Star Level 2 Attestation, ISO/IEC 27001:2013, ISO/IEC 27018:2019 and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) certifications and multiple agency Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) Moderate Authorities to Operate. We also support FIPS 140-2 validated encryption in our Okta Verify MFA product. 9 Scalability and Uptime Our technical operations and engineering teams are designed around the concept of an always-on, highly redundant and available platform that we can upgrade without customer disruption. Our products and architecture were built entirely in and for the cloud with availability and scalability at the center of the design and were built to be agnostic with respect to the underlying infrastructure. Our maintenance windows do not require any downtime. Our proprietary cell architecture includes redundant, active-active availability zones with cross-continental disaster recovery centers, real-time database replication and geo-distributed storage. If one of our systems goes down, another is quickly promoted. Our architecture is designed to scale both vertically by increasing the size of the application tiers and horizontally by adding new geo-distributed cells. The Okta Identity Cloud is monitored not only at the infrastructure level but also at the application and third-party integration level. Synthetic transaction monitoring allows our technical operations team to detect and resolve issues proactively. Okta Integration Network The Okta Integration Network contains over 7,000 integrations with cloud, mobile and web applications, IoT devices and IT infrastructure providers, including Amazon Web Services, Atlassian, Cisco, F5 Networks, Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Office 365, NetSuite, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Proofpoint, Salesforce, SAP, ServiceNow, Slack, Splunk, VMware, Workday and Zoom. At the core of the Okta Integration Network is a patented technology that allows our customers to seamlessly connect to any application or type of device that is already integrated into our network. In addition, customers can extend the Okta Integration Network by creating their own integrations to both cloud and on-premises proprietary applications. Our Customers As of January 31, 2021, we had more than 10,000 customers on our platform, including more than 1,950 customers with an annual contract value greater than $100,000. Our customers span nearly all industry verticals and range from small organizations with fewer than 100 employees to companies in the Fortune 50, with up to hundreds of thousands of employees, some of which use the Okta Identity Cloud to manage millions of their customers' identities. Sales and Marketing Sales We sell directly to customers through our inside and field sales force and also indirectly through our extensive ecosystem of channel partners. Once a sale is made, we leverage our land-and-expand sales model to generate incremental revenue, often within the term of the initial agreement, through the addition of new users and the sale of additional products. In many instances, we find that initial customer success with our platform results in key internal decision makers expanding their deployments, for example, from initial use for workforce identity to expanded use for their customer identity needs. Furthermore, as our customers are successful in their businesses and increase headcount or the number of their customers, we share in their growth as the number of identities that we manage increases. Our sales organization is structured to address the specific needs of each segment of our target market. Our sales team is divided by geography, customer size and industry vertical. Our direct sales force is supported by our sales engineers, security team, cloud architects, professional services team and other technical resources. We benefit from an expansive partner ecosystem that helps drive additional sales. Nearly all of the leading cloud application providers are our partners, and many of them drive further customer acquisition for us through co-selling arrangements, building our offerings directly into their products, and product demonstrations running on the Okta Identity Cloud. We also partner with several of the large technology companies that are driving the movement to the cloud. In addition to these technology partners, we leverage our channel partners, including system integrators, traditional VARs and Government VARs, to broaden the range of customers we reach. Marketing Our most valuable marketing features our customers and their successes, and is informed by a deeply data-driven approach, giving us insights into the efficacy of our efforts. Our marketing efforts focus on promoting our 10 industry-leading identity platform, establishing our brand, generating awareness, creating sales leads and cultivating the Okta Community. A centerpiece of our marketing strategy is our annual customer conference, Oktane, that features customers sharing their success stories, new product and feature announcements and hands-on product labs. We also host a number of other events, such as Okta Showcase, a key event for product and feature announcements, where we engage with both existing customers and new prospects, as well as deliver product training. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, architecture, creation and the quality of the Okta Identity Cloud. The research and development organization also works closely with our technical operations team to ensure the successful deployment and monitoring of our platform. We use test automation and application monitoring to ensure the Okta Identity Cloud is always-on. Customer Support and Professional Services Our products are designed for ease of use and fast deployments. As part of our customer first strategy, we are focused on customer success and offer several programs to help our customers maximize their success with our products. These programs leverage the expertise and best practices that we have built while helping thousands of Okta customers to adopt and deploy our products. Customer Support and Training Services We offer three tiers of support, each of which builds upon the previous tier. We provide live webinars as well as on-demand instructional videos to provide our customers with information about product features, functionality and our most common customer use cases. Professional Services Our professional services team provides assistance to customers in the deployment of the Okta Identity Cloud and includes identity and security experts, customized deployment plans and SmartStart, which provides a quick path to implementation. Okta Community We have created the Okta Community, an online community available to all of our customers that enables them to connect with other customers and partners to ask questions and find answers. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. As of January 31, 2021, we had twenty issued patents in the United States, which expire between 2030 and 2037 and cover various aspects of our products. In addition, as of such date, we also had five issued patents in Australia which expire between 2033 and 2037, five issued patents in New Zealand which expire between 2034 and 2037, and five issued European patents which have each been validated in Germany, France and Great Britain and expire between 2033 and 2036. We have registered Okta as a trademark in the United States, Australia, Canada, China, the European Union, Japan and the United Kingdom. We also have filed other trademark applications pending in the United States and China. We also have registered in the United States the trademarks "Okta Your Cloud, Covered," "Enterprise Identity, Delivered," "Work Outside the Perimeter," "Oktane," "Never Build Auth Again" and "Zero Trusts Given." We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include Okta and similar variations. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights or similar agreements with our employees, consultants and contractors. Our employees, 11 consultants and contractors are also subject to invention assignment agreements. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both general and product-specific terms of use. Additional information regarding certain risks related to our intellectual property is included in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Competitors The markets for our products are rapidly evolving, highly competitive and subject to shifting customer needs and frequent introductions of new competing technologies. As the markets in which we operate continue to mature and new technologies and competitors enter those markets, we expect competition to intensify. Our competitor categories include: Authentication providers; Lifecycle Management providers; Multi-factor Authentication providers;. Infrastructure-as-a-service providers; Other customer identity and access management providers; and Solutions developed in-house by our potential customers. We compete with both cloud-based and on-premise enterprise application software providers. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. However, many of our competitors have substantial competitive advantages such as significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, distribution, customer support or other resources, longer operating histories, greater resources to make strategic acquisitions and greater name recognition than we do. Our principal competitor is Microsoft. Due to the flexibility and breadth of our platform, we can and often do co-exist alongside our competitors products within our customer base. Principal competitive factors in our markets include flexibility, independence, product capabilities, total cost of ownership, time to value, scalability, user experience, number of pre-built integrations, customer satisfaction, global reach and ease of integration, management and use. We believe our product strategy, platform architecture, technology and independence as well as our company culture allow us to compete favorably on each of these factors. We expect competition to increase as other established and emerging companies enter our markets, as customer requirements evolve, and as new products and technologies are introduced. We expect this to be particularly true as we are a cloud-based offering, and our competitors may also seek to acquire new offerings or repurpose their existing offerings to provide identity management solutions with subscription models. With the continuing merger and acquisition activity in the technology industry, particularly transactions involving security or identity and access management technologies, there is a greater likelihood that we will compete with other large technology companies in the future in both the workforce identity and customer identity markets. Additional information regarding our competition is included in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Human Capital Resources Our core values love our customers, never stop innovating, act with integrity, be transparent and empower our people inform and guide our human capital initiatives and objectives. In order to continue to innovate and drive customer success, it is crucial that we continue to attract, develop and retain exceptional talent. To that end, we strive to make Okta a diverse and inclusive workplace, with opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by fair and competitive compensation, benefits and wellness programs, and by initiatives that foster connections between and among our employees and their communities. 12 As of January 31, 2021, we had 2,806 employees, of which approximately 83% were in the United States and 17% were in our international locations. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. We encourage you to review the Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging, Responsibility, Careers and Okta for Good pages of our website at www.okta.com for more detailed information regarding our human capital programs and initiatives. Additional information on our diversity, inclusion and belonging strategy, diversity metrics and programs can be found in our State of Inclusion at Okta Annual Report located on our website at www.okta.com/state-of-inclusion-at-okta. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging We are committed to fostering a culture of inclusion and belonging, and to building a diverse workforce to drive innovation and collective growth, which we believe is critical to our success. Over the past few years, we have prioritized our diversity, inclusion and belonging (DIB) program at Okta. Our DIB initiatives spearheaded by our DIB department, Inclusion Council and employee resource groups (ERGs), in partnership with various other teams focus on DIB in our workforce, in our workplace and in the community. We employ inclusive recruitment and hiring practices to source diverse talent and mitigate potential bias throughout the hiring process. We also continue to recruit from a broad range of colleges and engage with organizations that support diverse students and jobseekers through our social impact arm, Okta for Good. Growth and Development We invest significant resources to develop talent and actively foster a learning culture where employees are empowered to drive their personal and professional growth. We offer extensive onboarding and training programs to prepare our employees at all levels for career progression and individual development. Compensation, Benefits and Wellness We provide robust compensation, benefits and wellness programs that help support the varying needs of our employees. In addition to market-competitive base pay, short-term bonus incentives and long-term equity incentives, our total rewards program includes comprehensive employee benefits and a variety of other health and wellness resources. We are committed to fair compensation and opportunity in our workplace. Dynamic Work We help our employees succeed by providing flexibility in where and how they work. Over the past few years, we introduced and began transitioning our workforce to a Dynamic Work framework, based on the premise that enabling our employees to work from anywhere can increase employee empowerment, satisfaction and productivity, drive efficiency and enable us to hire from a broader, more diverse pool of talent. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we accelerated our move to Dynamic Work to protect the health, safety and wellness of our employees. Community and Social Impact The mission of our social impact arm, Okta for Good, is to strengthen the connections between people, technology and community, which we believe fosters a more meaningful, fulfilling and enjoyable workplace. Our employees are passionate about many causes and Okta for Good connects them with numerous giving and volunteering opportunities in service of our communities. Okta for Good's core focus areas are: Developing technology for good ecosystems; Expanding economic opportunity and pathways into the technology sector; Supporting non-profits addressing critical needs in our global communities; and Empowering our employees to become changemakers. Through Okta for Good, which is a part of our company and not a separate legal entity, we donate and discount access to our service for non-profit organizations, who use the Okta Identity Cloud to make their teams more efficient, allowing them to focus on making a meaningful impact in the world. Our employee volunteer program enables global team members to donate time to support charitable organizations worldwide. 13 In addition, prior to our initial public offering (IPO) in April 2017, we reserved 300,000 shares of our common stock to fund and support the operations of Okta for Good, of which 195,000 shares of Class A common stock remain reserved for future issuances. Financial Information The financial information required under this Item 1 is incorporated herein by reference to the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K titled Part II-