Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Result of Operations and Risk Factors". Forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K include, but are not limited to, statements about: our future financial performance, including our revenue, costs of revenue, gross profit or gross margin and operating expenses; our growth strategy and ability to compete; the sufficiency of our cash, cash equivalents and investments to meet our liquidity needs; our ability to maintain the security and availability of our internal networks and platform; our ability to increase our number of customers; our ability to sell additional products to and retain our existing customers; our ability to successfully expand in our existing markets and into new markets; our ability to effectively manage our growth and future expenses; our ability to expand our network of independent software vendors and channel partners; our ability to form and expand partnerships with independent software vendors and system integrators; our ability to introduce new products, enhance existing products and address new use cases; our ability to maintain, protect and enhance our intellectual property; our ability to comply with modified or new laws and regulations applying to our business; the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; our anticipated investments in sales and marketing and research and development; our ability to comply with modified or new laws and regulations applying to our business, including GDPR (as defined below) and other privacy regulations that may be implemented in the future; the impact of recent accounting pronouncements on our financial statements; and our ability to successfully defend litigation brought against us. Forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which involve factors or circumstances that are beyond Oktas control. Oktas actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied in forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including but not limited to, risks detailed in Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as well as other documents that may be filed by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance or events and circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. Moreover, except as required by law, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations. Part I Item 1. Business Overview Okta is the leading independent provider of identity for the enterprise. Our mission is to enable any organization to use any technology, and we believe identity is the key to making that happen. The Okta Identity Cloud is our category-defining platform that enables our customers to securely connect people to technology, anywhere, anytime and from any device. Identity has always been the key to establishing trust between users and technologies. We founded Okta in 2009 to reinvent identity for the cloud era, where identity is the critical foundation for connection and trust between users and technology. The Okta Identity Cloud helps organizations effectively harness the power of cloud and mobile technologies by securing users and connecting them with the applications they rely on. Every day, people use Okta to securely access a wide range of cloud applications, websites, mobile applications and services from a multitude of devices. Each of these users represents a unique user identification that authenticates into our platform. Workforces sign into our platform to seamlessly access the applications they need to do their most important work. Organizations also use our platform to provide their customers with more modern experiences online and via mobile devices, and to connect with partners to streamline their operations. Developers leverage our platform to securely embed identity into their software. As we add new customers, users, developers and applications to our platform, our business, customers and users benefit from powerful network effects that increase the value and security of the Okta Identity Cloud. Given the growth trends in the number of applications and cloud adoption, identity is quickly becoming the most critical layer of an organizations security. As the corporate perimeter has dissolved, identity has become the most reliable way to manage user access, adopt cloud and mobile technologies and protect digital assets. Our approach to identity eliminates duplicative, sprawling credentials and disparate authentication policies, allowing our customers to simplify and scale their IT and security infrastructures more efficiently as the number of users, devices, clouds and other technologies in their ecosystem grows. We designed the Okta Identity Cloud to provide organizations an integrated approach to managing and securing all of their identities. Our platform allows our customers to easily provision their customers, employees, contractors, and partners , enabling any user to connect to any device, cloud or application, all with a simple, intuitive and consumer-like user experience. Developers leverage the Okta Identity Cloud to secure and manage the identities of their own customers accessing their cloud and mobile applications. Our customers are able to achieve fast time to value, lower costs and increased efficiency while improving compliance and providing security that is persistent, perimeter-less and context-aware. These benefits are delivered through multiple products on a unified platform, our superior cloud architecture , and a vast and increasing network of integrations. The Okta Identity Cloud is an independent and neutral cloud-based identify platform that allows our customers to integrate with any prevalent application, service or cloud that they choose. We offer a complete and integrated identity stack that is built on a single code base, rather than a point solution that needs to be integrated with other identity products. In addition, we do not push our customers to particular vendors or a specific proprietary software stack. This independence and neutrality enables our customers to easily adopt the best technologies, and is designed to securely connect their users to the technology that they choose. We prioritize the compatibility of the Okta Identity Cloud with on-premise infrastructures and public, private and hybrid clouds. Our customers value our open approach, which enables them to future proof their environments. As of January 31, 2018, more than 4,350 customers across nearly every industry used the Okta Identity Cloud to secure and manage identities around the world. Our customers are comprised of leading global organizations ranging from the largest enterprises, to small and medium-sized businesses, universities, non-profits and government agencies. We partner with leading application and infrastructure vendors, such as Amazon Web Services, Box, Google Cloud, Microsoft, NetSuite, SAP, ServiceNow, and Workday. We had over 5,500 integrations with cloud, mobile and web applications and IT infrastructure providers as of January 31, 2018, which while not directly correlated to revenue, shows the breadth and acceptance of our platform. 4 We employ a SaaS business model, and generate revenue primarily by selling multi-year subscriptions to our cloud-based offerings. We focus on acquiring and retaining our customers and increasing their spending with us through expanding the number of users who access our platform and up-selling additional products. We sell our products directly through our field and inside sales teams, as well as indirectly through our network of independent software vendors, or ISVs, and channel partners. The Okta Identity Cloud The Okta Identity Cloud is a secure, reliable and scalable platform that provides comprehensive identity management, enabling our customers to secure their users and connect them to technology and applications, anywhere, anytime and from any device. Our customers use the platform to secure their workforces, to provide more seamless experiences for their customers, and to create solutions that make their partner networks more collaborative. The Okta Identity Cloud is used as the central system for an organizations connectivity, access, authentication and identity lifecycle management needs spanning all of its users and applications. We enable our customers to easily deploy, manage and secure applications and devices, and to provision and support users across their IT environments, with a simple, intuitive, consumer-like user experience. Developers are similarly able to leverage a robust set of tools to quickly build custom web and mobile application experiences that leverage the Okta Identity Cloud as the underlying identity platform. Once deployed, we enable administrators to enforce contextual access management decisions based on conditions such as user identity, device, location, application identity, IP reputation and time of day. The Okta Identity Cloud is used by organizations in two distinct and powerful ways. It is used to manage and secure their extended enterprise (employees, contractors and partners), which we previously referred to as our internal use case. It is also used to manage and secure an organizations customers identities via the powerful APIs we have developed, which we previously referred to as our external use case. The Okta Identity Cloud for the Extended Enterprise The Okta Identity Cloud simplifies the way an organizations extended enterprise connects to its applications and data from any device, while increasing efficiency and keeping IT environments secure. We enable organizations to provide their users with immediate and secure access to every application they need from any device they use, without requiring multiple credentials, which significantly enhances user connectivity and productivity. We offer our customers an additional security layer through our Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication product. As our customers assets continue to migrate outside of the firewall, we believe this product is one of the simplest yet most effective ways to secure users and data. Our Universal Directory and Lifecycle Management products also serve as a system of record to help our customers organize, customize and manage their users and their access privileges throughout the users entire lifecycle. This includes managing all requests and approvals and automating account and device provisioning and de-provisioning seamlessly across directories, applications and devices. The Okta Identity Cloud enables our customers to automate access across their growing ecosystem of employees, contractors and partners, increasing collaboration across their extended enterprise. The Okta Identity Cloud to Transform the Customer Experience The Okta Identity Cloud also enables organizations to transform their customers experience by empowering development teams to rapidly and securely build customer-facing cloud, mobile or web applications. Managing identity-centric connectivity for an organizations customers in this way is a relatively new use case. We enable an organizations product team to layer our powerful identity platform into their cloud, web and mobile applications through our APIs. This makes it easier for them to authenticate, manage and secure their connections, enabling rapid product innovation for the business. Organizations are able to centrally manage policy and API-level access across their development efforts, leading to more seamless customer experiences that are personalized, engaging and secure. Growth Strategy Key elements of our growth strategy are to: Execute with Our Existing Platform Drive New Customer Growth . To increase our market share, we intend to continue to grow our customer base, with a focus on key verticals, including highly-regulated sectors. 5 Deepen Relationships Within Our Existing Customer Base . We plan to further increase revenue from our existing customers by cross-selling and up-selling additional products. We also believe we can expand our footprint by focusing on current customers that have deployed the Okta Identity Cloud for the extended enterprise, and expanding those customers use of our platform to managing their customers identities, or vice versa. Expand Our Integrations and Partner Ecosystem . The Okta Integration Network is an extensive partner ecosystem, which includes, among thousands of others, integrations with Amazon Web Services, Atlassian, Box, DocuSign, Google Cloud, Microsoft, NetSuite, SAP, ServiceNow, Slack, Workday, Workplace by Facebook, and Zendesk. We plan to continue these partnerships as well as add new integration partners to enrich our user experience and expand our customer base. We view our investment in partnerships as a force multiplier that enables us to build and promote complementary capabilities that benefit our customers. We also plan to expand our indirect sales network to leverage the sales efforts of additional ISVs and channel partners . Expand Our International Footprint . With 15% of our revenue generated outside of the United States in fiscal 2018, up from 13% in fiscal 2017, we believe there is significant opportunity to grow our international business. We believe global demand for our products will continue to increase as international organizations fully embrace cloud and mobile computing. Increase Our Opportunities Innovate and Advance Our Platform with New Products and Use Cases . We intend to continue making significant investments in research and development, hiring top technical talent and maintaining an agile organization. By continuing to innovate, we believe that we can address new use cases and offer increasing value to existing and potential customers. Leverage Our Unique Data Assets with Powerful Analytics . Our position at the intersection of people, devices, applications and infrastructure gives us unique access to powerful data, and the opportunity to provide differentiated insights based on that data. We expect the value of our analytics will increase as customers continue to connect more devices, applications and users to their networks and as we add more customers. We do not currently derive revenue from our unique data assets, but we intend to explore opportunities for monetization in the future. Our Products The Okta Identity Cloud consists of a suite of products to manage and secure identities, and it is used by IT organizations to secure their extended enterprise and also by developers to build customer-facing websites and applications. Products used for the extended enterprise are consumed through Okta-branded web and mobile interfaces, and provide simple ways for IT organizations to manage identities for their employees, contractors and partners. Our APIs are used by developers to embed Okta identity functionality into their own customer-facing web or mobile applications. We continuously improve the Okta Identity Cloud through the release and development of additional products and features, with weekly updates. Universal Directory . Universal Directory provides a centralized, cloud-based system of record to store and secure user, application and device profiles for an organization. Users and profiles stored in the directory can be used with our Single Sign-On product to manage passwords and authentication, or can be used by developers to store and authenticate the users of their applications. When used to its fullest to manage and secure identities for the extended enterprise, Universal Directory becomes an organizations system of record for all of its employees, partners and contractors . Single Sign-On . When used to manage and secure identities for the extended enterprise, Single Sign-On enables users to access all of their applications, whether in the cloud or on-premise, from any device, with a single entry of their user credentials. We combine secure access, modern protocols, flexible policies and a consumer-like user experience to permit organizations to easily allow customers or partners to sign in to their applications with their existing identity information. Single Sign-On also enables built-in reporting and analytics that provide real-time search functionalities across users, devices, applications and the associated access and usage activity. Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication . Adaptive Multi-Factor Authentication is a comprehensive, but simple-to-use, product that provides an additional layer of security for an organizations web and mobile applications and data. We offer an intelligent approach to security, built on contextual data. Adaptive Multi-Factor 6 Authentication, standard in our product since late 2017, includes a policy framework that is integrated with a broad set of cloud and on-premise applications and network infrastructures. It offers adaptive, risk-based authentication that leverages data intelligence from across the Okta network of thousands of organizations. Lifecycle Management . Lifecycle Management enables IT organizations or developers to manage a user's identity throughout its entire lifecycle. It automates IT processes and ensures user accounts are created and deactivated at the appropriate times, including the workflow and policies needed to power those processes. With Okta Lifecycle Management, organizations can securely manage the entire identity lifecycle, from on-boarding to off-boarding, and ensure compliance requirements are met as user roles evolve and access levels change. API Access Management . API Access Management enables organizations to secure APIs as systems connect to each other. Access to these APIs is managed based on the user, which enables organizations to centrally maintain one set of permissions for any employee, partner or customer across every point of access. API Access Management reduces development time, boosts security and enables seamless end-user experiences by providing a unified portable service for authorizing secure and always available access to any API. Mobility Management . Mobility Management simplifies and automates mobile device administration and provisioning across phones, tablets and laptops, to ensure that devices are secure. In late 2017, we ceased investing in mobility management as a stand-alone product, focusing more on mobile access management as part of our Sign-On product. We will continue to support Mobility Management for existing clients through the duration of their contracts. By focusing on identity, the one constant in an ever-changing technology and threat landscape, the Okta Identity Cloud provides our customers with a solution to solve their IT and security challenges. Our Technology We focus on engineering a simple but comprehensive platform to solve complex problems. Our pure cloud architecture is multi-tenant, encrypted and third-party validated. Okta Integration Network Our Okta Integration Network contains over 5,500 integrations with cloud, mobile and web applications and IT infrastructure providers from Amazon Web Services, Atlassian, Box, Cisco, Citrix, DocuSign, F5 Networks, Google Cloud, Microsoft, MuleSoft, NetSuite, Palo Alto Networks, SAP, ServiceNow, Slack, Splunk, Workday, Workplace by Facebook, Zendesk and Zoom, among thousands of others. At the core of the Okta Integration Network is a patented technology that allows our customers to seamlessly connect to any application or type of device that is already integrated into our network. One Platform with Differentiated Administration, User and Developer Experience The Okta Identity Cloud is built on one common platform and user interface framework, offering administrators and users a consistent, easy-to-use, consumer-like experience across our products. Our technology integrates with industry-leading browsers and mobile applications to provide seamless access to any web or native mobile application. We also heavily leverage operating system management and security technologies across desktops, laptops and mobile devices to provide a transparent, but secure experience for users across a range of devices. These integrations allow us to seamlessly deliver connectivity use cases that previously required significant custom development to achieve. Robust Security Security is a mission-critical issue for Okta and for our customers. Our approach to security spans day-to-day operational practices to the design and development of our software to how customer data is segmented and secured within our multi-tenant platform. We ensure that access to our platform is securely delegated across an organization. Our source code is updated weekly, and there are audited and verifiable security checkpoints to ensure source code fidelity and continuous security review. We have attained SOC 2, CSA Star 2, Level 2 Attestation, ISO/IEC 27001:2013, ISO/IEC 27018:2014 and HIPAA certifications and the FedRAMP Moderate Authority to Operate. We also plan to meet the requirements of the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679 by May 25, 2018. 7 Scalability and Uptime Our technical operations and engineering teams are designed around the concept of an always-on, highly redundant and available platform that we can upgrade without customer disruption. Our products and architecture were built entirely in and for the cloud with availability and scalability at the center of the design, and were built to be agnostic with respect to the underlying infrastructure. Our maintenance windows do not require any downtime. Our proprietary cell architecture includes redundant, active-active availability zones with cross-continental disaster recovery centers, real-time database replication and geo-distributed storage. If one of our systems goes down, another is quickly promoted. Our architecture is designed to scale both vertically by increasing the size of the application tiers and horizontally by adding new geo-distributed cells. Our platform is monitored not only at the infrastructure level but also at the application and third-party integration level. Synthetic transaction monitoring allows our technical operations team to detect and resolve issues proactively. Our Customers As of January 31, 2018, we had over 4,350 customers on our platform. Our customers span nearly all industry verticals and range from small organizations with fewer than 100 employees to companies in the Fortune 100, with up to hundreds of thousands of employees, some of which use the Okta Identity Cloud to manage millions of their customers' identities. Sales and Marketing Sales We sell directly to customers through our inside and field sales force and also indirectly through our extensive ecosystem of channel partners. Once a sale is made, we leverage our land-and-expand sales model to generate incremental revenue, often within the term of the initial agreement, through the addition of new users and the sale of additional products. In many instances, we find that initial customer success with our platform results in key internal decision makers expanding their deployments, for example, from initial use for their extended enterprise to expanded use of our platform to manage their customers identities. Furthermore, as our customers are successful in their businesses and increase headcount, we share in their growth as the number of identities that we manage increases. Our sales organization is structured to address the specific needs of each segment of our target market. Our sales team is divided by geography, customer size, use case and industry vertical. Our direct sales force is supported by our sales engineers, security team, cloud architects, professional services team and other technical resources. We benefit from an expansive partner ecosystem that helps drive additional sales. Nearly all of the leading cloud application providers are our partners, and many of them drive further customer acquisition for us through co-selling arrangements, building our offerings directly into their products, and product demonstrations running on the Okta Identity Cloud. We also partner with several of the large technology companies that are driving the movement to the cloud. In addition to these technology partners, we leverage system integrators, traditional VARs and Government VARs to broaden the range of customers we reach. Marketing Our most valuable marketing features our customers and their successes, and is informed by a deeply data-driven approach, giving us insights into the efficacy of our efforts. Our marketing efforts focus on promoting our industry-leading identity platform, establishing our brand, generating awareness, creating sales leads and cultivating the Okta Community. A centerpiece of our marketing strategy is our annual customer conference, Oktane, that features customers sharing their success stories, new product and feature announcements and hands-on product labs. Research and Development Our research and development organization is responsible for the design, architecture, creation and the quality of the Okta Identity Cloud. The research and development organization also works closely with our technical operations team to ensure the successful deployment and monitoring of our platform. We utilize test automation and application monitoring to ensure the Okta Identity Cloud is always-on. Our research and development expenses for the years ended January 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , were $70.8 million , $38.7 million and $28.8 million , respectively. 8 Customer Support and Professional Services Our products are designed for ease of use and fast deployments. We also offer several programs to help our customers maximize their success with our products. Customer Support and Training Services We offer three tiers of support, each of which builds upon the previous tier. We provide live webinars as well as on-demand instructional videos to provide our customers with information about product features, functionality and our most common customer use cases. Professional Services Our professional services team provides assistance to customers in the deployment of the Okta Identity Cloud and includes identity, mobility and security experts, customized deployment plans and SmartStart, which provides a quick path to implementation. Okta Community We have created the Okta Community, an online community available to all of our customers that enables them to connect with other customers and partners to ask questions and find answers. Intellectual Property We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademarks, domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and patents, as well as contractual provisions and restrictions on access to our proprietary technology. As of January 31, 2018, we had ten issued patents in the United States, which expire between 2030 and 2035 and cover various aspects of our products. In addition, as of such date, we also had three issued patents in Australia, which expire between 2033 and 2035, and one issued patent in New Zealand expiring in 2034. We registered Okta as a trademark in the United States, the European Community, Australia, Canada and Japan. We also have filed other trademark applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions. We are the registered holder of a variety of domestic and international domain names that include Okta and similar variations. In addition to the protection provided by our intellectual property rights, we enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights or similar agreements with our employees, consultants and contractors. Our employees, consultants and contractors are also subject to invention assignment agreements. We further control the use of our proprietary technology and intellectual property through provisions in both general and product-specific terms of use. Additional information regarding certain risks related to our intellectual property is included in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Competitors Our competitors for Okta Identity Cloud products to manage identities for the extended enterprise include: Authentication providers, such as Computer Associates, Microsoft, IBM, Oracle and SailPoint; Life Cycle Management providers, such as Computer Associates, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle; Multi-factor Authentication providers, such as RSA (a division of Dell Technologies), Microsoft and Symantec; and Infrastructure-as-a-service providers, such as Microsoft, Google Cloud Platform and Amazon Web Services. For organizations to manage their customers identities, the Okta Identity Cloud generally competes with internally developed systems . We also compete with small, private niche companies that offer point products that attempt to address certain of the problems that our platform solves. 9 Due to the flexibility and breadth of our platform, we can and often do co-exist alongside our competitors products within our customer base. The principal competitive factors in our markets include product capabilities, flexibility, independence, total cost of ownership, time to value, scalability, user experience, number of pre-built integrations, customer satisfaction, global reach, and ease of integration, management and use. We believe our product strategy, technology and company culture allow us to compete favorably on each of these factors. We expect competition to increase as other established and emerging companies enter our markets, as customer requirements evolve, and as new products and technologies are introduced. We expect this to be particularly true as we are a cloud-based offering, and our competitors may also seek to repurpose their existing offerings to provide identity management solutions with subscription models. With the recent increase in merger and acquisition transactions in the technology industry, particularly transactions involving cloud-based technologies, there is a greater likelihood that we will compete with other large technology companies in the future. Many of our competitors, particularly the large technology companies named above, have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, distribution, customer support or other resources, and greater name recognition than we do. However, we believe that our platform architecture, position as an independent provider of identity solutions and focus on innovation enable us to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than our larger competitors that primarily focus on other market segments and tie their identity solutions to their other proprietary products. Additional information regarding our competition is included in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Okta for Good Okta for Goods mission is to mobilize our technology and people to enable non-profit organizations to achieve their missions faster. Through Okta for Good, which is a part of our company and not a separate legal entity, we also donate and discount access to our service for non-profit organizations, who use the Okta Identity Cloud to make their teams more efficient and allows them to focus on making a meaningful impact in the world. Our employee volunteer program enables global team members to donate time to support charitable organizations worldwide. Employees As of January 31, 2018, we had 1,176 employees, including 151 employees located outside of the United States. To our knowledge, none of our employees is represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Financial Information and Segments The financial information required under this Item 1 is incorporated herein by reference to the section of this Annual Report titled Part II-