Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, seeks, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our ability to grow our revenue; our ability to attract new customers and expand sales to existing customers. fluctuation in our performance, our history of net losses and any increases in our expenses; competition and technological development in our markets and any decline in demand for our solutions or generally in our markets; adverse general economic and market conditions and spending on sales and marketing technology; our ability to expand our sales and marketing capabilities and achieve growth; the impact of the resumption of in-person marketing activities on our customer growth rate; disruptions, interruptions, outages or other issues with our technology or our use of third-party services, data connectors and data centers; the impact of any cybersecurity-related attack, significant data breach or disruption of the information technology systems or networks on which we rely; our sales cycle, our international presence and our timing of revenue recognition from our sales; interoperability with other devices, systems and applications; compliance with data privacy, import and export controls, customs, sanctions and other laws and regulations; intellectual property matters, including any infringements of third-party intellectual property rights by us or infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties; and the market for, trading price of and other matters associated with our common stock. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. We discuss these risks in greater detail in the section entitled Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Report. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Also, forward-looking statements represent our managements beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Report. You should read this Report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly, or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements, even if new information becomes available in the future. 2 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business. Overview We provide a leading, cloud-based intelligent engagement platform that combines best-in-class experiences with personalization and content, to enable sales and marketing organizations to capture and act on connected insights at scale. Our platforms portfolio of interactive and hyper-personalized digital experience products creates and captures actionable, real-time data at scale from millions of professionals to provide businesses with buying signals and behavioral insights to efficiently convert prospects into customers. Similar to what has taken place in the business-to-consumer, or B2C, market, our platform for intelligent engagement empowers business-to-business, or B2B, companies with insights to better personalize their engagement. Large social media platforms have been successful at leveraging experiences and insights of consumers on their platforms to enable B2C companies to effectively understand their potential consumers. While these have been effective in the B2C market, B2B companies often lack deep insights about prospective customers to effectively understand and engage them. Businesses today primarily use traditional sales and marketing solutions, such as digital advertising and email, for marketing. While these traditional solutions reach large numbers of prospective customers, they have generally failed to deepen customer engagement because they were designed with the simple purpose of pushing marketing messages in one direction from the business to the prospective customer. As a result, marketing at scale has become synonymous with spam, which is often ignored by prospective customers and can even undermine the customer relationship. At the same time, prospective customers prefer to do their own research by accessing digital marketing resources before consulting with a salesperson to make a purchasing decision. For most businesses to succeed, we believe their sales and marketing strategies must have digital engagement powered by the latest technology. With the launch of our intelligent engagement platform that includes our new AI-powered Analytics and Content Engine (ACE) in January 2024, we are strategically positioned to help businesses and their sales and marketing organizations make this transition. Our platform provides an innovative way both to scale digital marketing and deepen prospective customer engagement. We believe our opportunity to help businesses convert digital engagement into revenue will continue to grow over time as industries modernize their sales and marketing processes. As our customers create more ON24 content-rich experiences, they gain more connected insights through gathering more data directly from prospective customers, which we refer to as first-person data, to help them create a multiplier effect that strengthens their ability to convert prospective customers and generate revenue. As of December 31, 2023, we had 1,784 customers. No single customer contributed more than 10% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Industry Trends B2B sales and marketing has shifted away from traditional approaches, such as cold calling, snail mail, industry networking events and in-office visits, to more scalable, digital-based approaches. Going forward, B2B sales interactions between suppliers and buyers are expected to increasingly occur in digital channels. As they transition to digital-based approaches, businesses are struggling to achieve deep levels of personalized engagement and interactivity. The most common digital marketing tactics that businesses use to operate sales and marketing programs at scale require them to make suboptimal tradeoffs: either annoy their customers with spam, which is frequently ineffective, or use third-party providers to run more expensive marketing campaigns that still may not be engaging or personalized to a prospective customers business needs. This has led to frustration and poor returns from digital sales and marketing investments. The imperative to optimize digital sales and marketing investments to drive revenue conversion has become more important as businesses accelerate digital transformation and AI innovation initiatives. We believe this digital transformation has fundamentally changed the way businesses engage with their prospective customers, leading to an increased need for innovative methods of B2B engagement at scale and leverage AI to improve sales effectiveness and drive faster revenue growth. The following key trends are impacting sales and marketing strategies today: Personalized and interactive digital customer engagement at scale is the new imperative. The ability to engage with large numbers of prospective customers and customers in a cost effective manner is crucial. As businesses broadlyembrace digital transformation and AI initiatives, they are using cloud-based platforms to modernize their sales and marketing strategies. Increased focus on digital marketing solutions offers our customers an opportunity to drive personalized and interactive prospective customer engagement at scale by aggregating a significant amount of insights on prospective customers. It also enables our customers to make productivity gains through the assistance of AI. This enables businesses to optimize sales and marketing campaigns and drive revenue growth. 3 Table of Contents Democratization of content has led prospective customers to self-educate. Ineffective marketing tactics coupled with broad availability of relevant content across multiple channels have shifted the mindset of B2B prospective customers. Because prospective customers are now self-educating by accessing information on products and brands in advance of purchasing decisions, marketers must adapt by identifying and providing relevant content to their prospective customers earlier in the sales process. We believe this will necessarily shift greater investment into content-rich, interactive platforms for intelligent engagement and away from low-touch marketing automation strategies. We also believe that this increasing need for content to enable prospective customers to self-educate will make it necessary for sales and marketing functions to produce content as efficiently and quickly as possible, therefore increasing the benefit of generative AI. Traditional marketing approaches are increasingly ineffective. Many traditionalmarketing tactics have limited effectiveness at engaging prospective customers because they are generic, intrusive and irrelevant. Having a limited understanding of a prospective customers intent and interest leads to largely ineffective, impersonal marketing, wasted sales and marketing investment and frustrated prospective customers. Data privacy requirements are constraining digital marketing. Data privacy has become a fundamental area of focus for regulatory bodies given the digital transformation initiatives taking place and the plethora of spam used today. As privacy laws continue to expand and evolve, this puts pressure on methods of marketing at scale that have traditionally been highly dependent on information obtained from third parties. As a result, we believe there is increased focus on engaging with customers directly and driving engagement through first-party insights and integrations. The new norms of digital transformation and targeting self-educating prospective customers have accelerated the need for cloud platforms that deliver personalized and interactive customer engagement at scale to drive revenue as well as enable AI-assisted efficiencies. Limitations of Traditional Approaches to Customer Engagement at Scale Many businesses have struggled to adapt their marketing strategies for digital interactions with prospective customers. Traditional marketing tactics and general-purpose communication platforms suffer from many limitations, including: Failure to create content-rich, interactive experiences for prospective customers. As prospective customers increasingly self-educate, creating personalized, content-rich and interactive experiences is critical to generate engagement. Typical online sales and marketing strategies are built upon one-way communication from the marketer to their prospective customers, offering no opportunity for developing a meaningful exchange nor empowering prospective customers to dictate their own buying process. Limited opportunity for engagement, resulting in less prospective customer data. Highly engaging and interactive experiences generate valuable signals about prospective customers buying intentions that can inform the sales process and improve efficiency. To capture and respond to those buying signals, businesses need to track, record, contextualize and analyze prospective customer behavior in real-time. While in-person events, such as business conferences, can sometimes create engaging experiences, they do not allow for the automated and efficient collection of first-person data and are expensive to organize. General-purpose online meeting tools can enable businesses to reach many people at once, but they lack the engagement, analytics and first-person data that are needed to drive revenue. Meanwhile, traditional marketing tools collect only superficial data such as click rates that deliver limited understanding into what prospective customers want, what messages are resonating and how to more deeply engage and inform prospective customers that are seeking to learn more. Ineffective insights to convert prospects into customers. Insights about prospective customers are primarily valuable to businesses to the extent that they help convert prospects into customers. Providing contextualized and easy to access information to sales teams in real-time can materially improve their efficiency and improve revenue conversion. Technologies such as general-purpose meeting and collaboration tools have provided convenient alternatives to hosting in-person events but were not designed to easily integrate into the broader sales and marketing systems that businesses use, and thus these tools have limited use in connecting real-time customer interaction with a businesss broader sales and marketing strategies. Inability to utilize behavioral insights to dynamically personalize content. By gaining insights into their prospective customers behavior and engagement, businesses can understand and measure the performance of their digital experiences. This understanding provides critical intelligence to optimize the subsequent creation and delivery of other digital experiences as well as leverage AI. Traditional approaches typically fail to utilize customer behaviors to dynamically adjust content and enable content personalization. 4 Table of Contents Our Platform and Key Differentiators Our leading cloud-based platform for intelligent engagement enables businesses to convert customer engagement into revenue by combining best-in-class experiences with personalization and content, to enable sales and marketing organizations to capture and act on connected insights at scale. Our portfolio of ON24 Core Platform Experience products include: ON24 Elite: live, interactive webinar experience that engages prospective customers in real-time and can also be made available in an on-demand format. ON24 Breakouts: live breakout room experience that facilitates networking, collaboration and interactivity between users. ON24 Forums: live, interactive experience that facilitates video-to-video interaction between presenters and audiences. ON24 Go Live: live, interactive video event experience that enables presenters and attendees to engage face-to-face in real-time and can also be made available in an on-demand format. ON24 Engagement Hub: always-on, rich multimedia content experience that prospective customers can engage in anytime, anywhere. ON24 Target: personalized and curated, rich landing page experience that engages specific segments of prospective customers to drive a desired action. Our ON24 Core Platform Experience products are backed by our solutions, including: ON24 Intelligence: analytics backbone that captures first-person data to power the insights, benchmarking and reporting within our platform. ON24 AI-powered ACE: enables hyper-personalization at scale across ON24 experiences, uses generative AI to automatically create content and videos to feed ongoing nurture streams and provides an advanced set of intelligent analytics. ON24 Connect: ecosystem of third-party application integrations. ON24 Services and Platform Support: a portfolio of professional services that provide consulting and support for product and platform adoption. Our non-Core Platform Experience product is: ON24 Virtual Conference: live, large scale, managed virtual event experience that engages prospective customers in real-time and can also be made available in an on-demand format. With the return of large-scale in-person events, we are seeing less demand for this managed-service product. Accordingly, we are deemphasizing this product. As such, we do not consider ON24 Virtual Conference as part of our Core Platform. We believe the key differentiators of our platform are: Designed to drive interactive, personalized customer experiences. Our platform was built to power a new kind of customer engagement highly interactive digital experiences that can engage prospective customers at scale, while delivering a personalized experience to specific audience segments. Unlike spam, which is often ignored, our digital experiences engage prospective customers with tailored content and encourage them to ask questions and learn about a business products and offerings more broadly. This real-time interaction is the foundation of our intelligent engagement platform and aligns with how B2B prospective customers are seeking to self-educate. Interactive customer engagement creates highly valuable customer insight data. Unlike more traditional approaches, creating and measuring customer engagement and interaction is at the center of our platform. Through our products, our customers can create interactive experiences that foster active engagement with their prospective customers and gather data in real time. This enables our customers to obtain rich, valuable insights and predictive analytics as well as integrate the resulting data and insights into their business applications. Prospective customer insights drive more efficient conversion of pipeline to revenue. The customer engagement and interaction data gathered through our platform enables businesses to derive deep insights about prospective customer behavior. These insights can drive higher-quality pipeline, provide opportunities to use AI for better performance and resource efficiency and ultimately better revenue conversion for our customers. Through our ecosystem of integrations with third-party marketing automation, customer relationship management, or CRM, and business intelligence, or BI, platforms, our customers can leverage insights derived through our platform to more intelligently engage with prospective customers. 5 Table of Contents Flywheel effect drives continuous optimization. Years of capturing engagement insights have provided us with a deep understanding of how to best design digital experiences that engage prospective customers and generate more impactful revenue conversion. The more of our content-rich experiences that our customers create for their prospective customers to engage with, the more first-person data that our customers can collect in return, creating a flywheel effect. By leveraging AI, especially generative AI, our platform enables businesses to use this data to derive highly relevant and deep insights that fuel AI-generated content and videos, enable hyper-personalized segmentation at scale, and provide enhanced analytics and reporting and dynamic content recommendations. These AI-driven innovations further strengthen engagement, while saving time and resources, enhancing the quality of the interaction data and insights derived through our platform. Experiences that can be repurposed and continuously drive engagement to maximize return on investment. Our customers can continuously drive results because ON24 live experiences remain interactive and generate first-party insights well after the initial live date on which they are delivered. In addition, our customers can automatically turn their live experience content into new written and video content using generative AI. This flexibility makes it possible to repurpose and reuse digital experiences many times over with no incremental cost. Our Competitive Strengths We believe that we have significant competitive strengths that will enable us to extend our market leadership position, including: Category defining platform for customer engagement at scale. We created one of the first cloud platforms for businesses to deliver interactive, data-driven webinar experiences, virtual event experiences and multimedia content experiences. We believe we have a first-mover advantage because our proprietary and proven platform has enabled our customers to build effective systems for digital engagement that generate high return on investment. Cloud-based system of engagement. Our cloud-based platform enables our customers with several key marketing capabilities: creating digital experiences, deploying them at scale, collecting numerous data points on their prospective customers, repurposing experiences into AI-generated written and video content and leveraging this data to further personalize subsequent experiences. Consolidating these services onto one platform allows our customers to gather a more cohesive understanding of their prospective customers and take more targeted actions to more effectively convert prospects into customers. As a result, businesses no longer need to rely on a combination of standalone products. Broad, rich dataset and AI capabilities power valuable insights. Our platform enables highly interactive experiences, giving our customers access to behavioral data that signals buying intent. By leveraging our AI capabilities, our customers can derive valuable and actionable insights to optimize their sales and marketing strategies. For example, with our AI-powered ACE, we help our customers understand what features of a digital experience drive the most engagement with prospective customers and heatmap key moments of an experience that had the greatest impact on audiences. Based on those key moments, AI-powered ACE can automatically create short-form video clips that feed ongoing nurture streams. Our customers can use our platform to benchmark themselves against others in their industry to understand where they can improve as well as to synthesize lifetime behavior on our platform into an easy-to-use business interest report. Enterprise-grade, highly scalable cloud platform. Our cloud-based platform has been developed to enable enterprise-grade scalability. This includes options and features to enable our customers to make privacy and compliance choices that align to their needs as well as integrations with a broad ecosystem of third-party applications. Our platform is available in over 20 languages and can be utilized seamlessly across multinational sales and marketing organizations. Our customers can use our platform to engage their prospective customers in multiple regions by supporting different streaming protocols, multilingual translation and closed captioning. Broad base of customers across verticals. We have a large and diverse set of customers across a broad set of verticals, including technology, manufacturing, life sciences, financial services and professional services. As of December 31, 2023, we had 1,784 customers. We intend to leverage our land and expand model to further penetrate customers across these verticals. Superior, dedicated customer service. Our solutions are designed to be easy to use, featuring drag-and-drop and other similar tools simplifying implementation by our customers. We offer technical support, chat support and live webinar experience emergency support that is available to our customers 24/7. Our platform support and customer success teams are organized into a follow the sun model to ensure consistent and reliable service across the globe. 6 Table of Contents Our Market Opportunity We estimate the current total addressable market, or TAM, for our solutions is approximately $44 billion worldwide annually. We calculate our TAM by initially estimating the total number of companies that our platform and products can support in the United States across separate bands measured by number of employees: Enterprise, which includes companies with more than 2,000 employees, and Commercial, which includes companies with less than 2,000 employees, which we further divide into Mid-Market companies with 200-1,999 employees, and small and midsize, or SMB, companies with 1-199 employees, using data from the U.S. Census Bureau for 2020. We then apply an average annual value to the companies in each band. This value was calculated using internally generated data for annual recurring revenue, or ARR, as of December 31, 2023 for the top 25% of our customers by ARR that subscribe to two or more of our products, within each of the Enterprise and Mid-Market bands, and the top 25% by ARR of all our customers within the SMB band. We believe these calculations are representative of the current potential spend on our solutions by customers and prospective customers. We multiplied the total number of companies within each band by the calculated annual value for that band. The aggregate calculated value represents the current annual estimated market opportunity in the United States of approximately $22 billion. We believe the market opportunity for our solutions outside the United States is at least as large. Our Growth Strategy While we are currently operating in a challenging macro-economic environment, we intend to drive the growth of our business over time and the adoption of our solutions by executing the following strategies: Drive new customer acquisition. We believe that our market is still relatively underpenetrated and that through specialized and aligned sales teams focused on the Enterprise and Commercial markets globally, we can acquire new customers. Expand within existing customers. Our land and expand model is expected to drive expansion of new subscriptions within our existing customer base by selling subscriptions to additional parts of existing customers organizations, expanding into new regional divisions and upselling new solutions. In addition to expanding with our customers through use cases in the marketing and sales organizations, we expand within our customers through use cases for applications such as partner enablement and training, healthcare professional engagement in pharma and life sciences; member enrollment and broker enablement in commercial and health insurance; and continuing professional education and certification for professional services. Continue to increase multiproduct adoption and develop new solutions for specific use cases. We expect our business to grow both through increasing multiproduct adoption of existing solutions and selling our existing customers new solutions that we develop in the future. Our ecosystem of third-party integrations includes business applications in specific industries. We plan to continually develop new solutions that are powered with the newest technology such as AI to enhance the functionality of our platform and products, improve our customers experiences and drive engagement with their prospective customers. Expand into new regions. We believe the expansion of our platform in international markets is a significant opportunity. We may in the future evaluate expansion opportunities for our solutions internationally, both in countries where we currently operate and countries where we do not yet sell subscriptions to our solutions. Identify and pursue inorganic growth opportunities. We plan to opportunistically evaluate and acquire complementary businesses, products, services or technologies that expand our platform, add different categories of experiences and support new use cases for our customers. We believe well-selected inorganic growth opportunities may add significant value to our platform and expand the ability of our customers to gather engagement data to help them convert their prospective customers into revenue. Our Solutions Our platform gives businesses the ability to intelligently engage prospects and customers to drive revenue growth through hyper-personalized experiences, data-driven analytics and solutions that integrate into a large number of business systems, predominantly marketing automation, CRM and BI platforms. With first-party data and insights at the core, our platforms portfolio of experience products includes ON24 Elite, ON24 Forums, ON24 Go Live, ON24 Breakouts, ON24 Engagement Hub and ON24 Target. In addition, we offer our customers ON24 Intelligence and ON24 Connect solutions as well as ON24 AI-powered ACE. We also offer ON24 Virtual Conference, which is a non-Core Platform Experience product. 7 Table of Contents The following graphic depicts our platform: ON24 Experience Products Our platforms experience products contain a robust set of capabilities that make it simple for our customers to build, design, manage and scale live, interactive webinar experiences, large-scale virtual event experiences, rich multimedia content hub experiences and personalized content experiences. Any business user can use our platform; no code or technical expertise is required. We have designed our experiences to be equally easy for our customers audiences of prospective customers to access and guide their own self-education process. Our customers audiences of prospective customers can choose to engage with multiple points of interaction and content resources within an ON24 Experience and move seamlessly through a variety of ON24 Experiences. To further remove friction, audience members do not need any downloads or plug-ins, can use any web browser and can access experiences from a desktop, mobile or tablet device. ON24 Core Platform Experience Products Live Experiences: ON24 Elite ON24 Elite gives our customers a high-impact, cost-efficient, digitally native way to engage hundreds and thousands of their prospective customers simultaneously. An ON24 interactive webinar experience is fully customizable and enables our customers to combine a video or audio-based presentation with supporting slide materials, video clips or screen-sharing alongside dynamic interactions including live question and answer messaging, group chats, real-time surveys and polls, and additional content resources. Our customers can drive high-intent calls-to-action for their prospective customers to book a sales meeting or request a demo. Through ON24 AI-powered ACE, our customers can personalize calls-to-action, content and messaging for specific audience segments. 8 Table of Contents Through ON24 Elite, interactive webinar experiences can be delivered in multiple formats, including a scheduled live experience featuring a livestreamed presentation or pre-recorded presentation, which we refer to as simulive because it is designed to simulate a livestreamed presentation, or an on-demand experience featuring a pre-recorded presentation. No matter the format, all two-way interactivity remains dynamic and continues to drive engagement in real-time. Our platform also provides automated captioning inside interactive webinar experiences that can be transcribed and translated into 10 languages in real-time. That transcription can then be edited and auto-translated in more than 60 languages for pre-recorded, simulive or on-demand presentations. ON24 Elites flexible format and modular composition makes it easy to scale a webinar program, run multiple interactive experiences across different sales and marketing functions or for different audience segments, and repurpose and replay content and syndicate experiences to different regions. To enhance the re-use of content, our platform enables our customers to create templates and clone and edit interactive webinar experiences. We provide a separate interface for presenters called ON24 Elite Studio, which acts as the production environment for our customers to produce real-time interactive webinar experiences, livestream or record multimedia presentations, and engage with customers in real-time during an ON24 Experience. Live Experiences: ON24 Breakouts ON24 Breakouts expanded the functionality and interactivity of webinars built with ON24 Elite. This product enables users to have a face-to-face virtual conversation with their customers during or after the main webinar experience ends, facilitating attendee networking, enabling relationship-building and virtual selling opportunities. Live Experiences: ON24 Forums ON24 Forums provides an interactive, video-based experience for smaller moderated discussions bringing two-way, face-to-face networking and audience participation together in a fully branded experience. This product is ideal for executive engagement, expert-led trainings and professional advisory groups, enabling users to create high-touch virtual events at scale, capture interactions and integrate engagement data into business systems. Through AI-powered ACE, our customers can personalize calls-to-action, content and messaging for specific audience segments. Live Experiences: ON24 Go Live ON24 Go Live offers an all-in-one, easy-to-use video event experience optimized for networking and audience participation. This product is designed for single or multi-day events enabling users to deliver live keynote presentations, host multiple breakout sessions with video-based discussions, and create exhibit halls and a networking lounge. Optimized for audience networking and participation, this product includes multiple formats for two-way engagement, including event-level chat, in-session chat, polls and video-to-video breakout discussions. Always-On Experiences: ON24 Engagement Hub ON24 Engagement Hub is an online resource portal product that our customers use to provide rich content experiences for their prospective customers to find, consume and engage with interactive webinar experiences and other multimedia marketing content, such as videos and whitepapers, in a single online destination. Through AI-powered ACE, our customers can personalize calls-to-action, content and messaging for specific audience segments. With out-of-the-box features that include branding, search, categorization, website embedding and pre-set content layouts, ON24 Engagement Hub provides a simple and efficient way for our customers to seamlessly publish, curate and promote their interactive webinar experiences alongside other marketing content that they upload and host inside our platform. Personalized Experiences: ON24 Target ON24 Target is a personalized marketing product that gives our customers the ability to easily build, curate and disseminate interactive webinar and video experiences and other multimedia content. Through AI-powered ACE, our customers can personalize calls-to-action, content and messaging for specific audience segments. ON24 Intelligence ON24 Intelligence is the analytics backbone that runs across our platform and provides our customers with first-person data, analytics, benchmarking and reporting within our platform. These insights and reports are available to all our customers and measure analytics at the account-level, for each platform experience, for each hosted content asset and for each prospective customer who engages with an experience on our platform. Our customers can easily understand the overall performance of their ON24 experiences in a dashboard-level view and make comparisons to industry benchmarks for future improvement. We also include AI capabilities within ON24 Intelligence. 9 Table of Contents ON24 Engagement and Prospect Analytics The ON24 engagement and prospect analytics are powered by our proprietary algorithms and our AI capabilities. The prospect analytics measure engagement levels of individual prospective customers to enable our customers to report, qualify, prioritize and score their prospective customers intent to make a purchase. Our engagement analytics tools provide our customers the ability to report, measure and compare the engagement levels of their ON24 Experiences and multimedia assets hosted on our platform both in aggregate and individually. ON24 Advanced Analytics ON24 Advanced Analytics provides our customers with an additional set of pre-configured reports that enable customers to understand their most engaged prospective customers, provide a view of where prospective customers are in the sales funnel, and give analysis across poll and survey responses. Our customers are also able to use ON24 Advanced Analytics to run customized reports within our platform. ON24 AI-powered ACE Our flagship AI product is ON24 AI-powered ACE which helps our customers scale their hyper-personalized experiences, automatically create content and videos to feed ongoing nurture streams and provides an advanced set of intelligent analytics. ON24 AI Capabilities Our AI capabilities also leverage the data collected on behalf of our customers through our platform to allow for better audience engagement for individual prospects and personalization of experiences for customer segments. Our platform uses AI technologies, including generative AI, natural language processing and machine learning, to enable the following capabilities: The ability to dynamically deliver personalized content recommendations; Embedded generative AI that automatically creates written content and videos to feed ongoing nurture streams; Embedded generative AI copywriting assistant tool to help with promotional content; Enable sales to act on prospects unique topical interests with a Business Interest Cloud report; Surface immediate audience feedback from live experiences with a Key Moments report, providing marketers with a heatmap report of Key Moments that identifies the most engaging segments of a live experience and automatically creates snackable video highlights; Predictive engagement levels for our customers prospective customers; Automated transcription of audio and video into text, making it searchable and accessible; Automated translation of transcripts into multiple languages for global audience reach; 10 Table of Contents Q&A bot, to answer routine support questions during live webinar experiences; and, Platform audience and presenter load predictions, to help deploy operational resources and provide oversight. ON24 Connect ON24 Connect is an ecosystem of third-party application integrations and APIs that enable the first-person insights generated by ON24 Intelligence to be extracted and leveraged across our customers business systems for more intelligent sales and marketing. APIs Our broad set of APIs enable our customers, partners and a select set of third-party developers to use ON24 Intelligence in their business applications. We also provide our APIs to a select set of businesses to build applications for our portfolio of ON24 Experience products. Marketing Automation, CRM and BI Platform Integrations Through our ecosystem of third-party integrations, our customers can seamlessly integrate their first-person engagement data with other business systems, predominantly marketing automation, CRM and BI platforms, including integrations with Adobe Marketo Engage, Oracle Marketing Cloud (Eloqua), Salesforce CRM, Salesforce Marketing Cloud, Salesforce Pardot, Veeva and HubSpot. ON24 Non-Core Experience Product Live Experiences: ON24 Virtual Conference ON24 Virtual Conference is built to host large-scale online events and provide a single source for measurement and analytics. Our ON24 Virtual Conference powers multi-session virtual event experiences that can be scheduled as live events and maintained as ongoing on-demand events or in an immersive training content library. Simulating an in-person conference, trade show or training center, ON24 Virtual Conference houses multiple tracks of interactive webinar-based keynotes and breakout sessions powered by ON24 Elite alongside participant networking, virtual breakout meetings and virtual vendor booths. All interactions across the ON24 Virtual Conference and within the individual ON24 Elite-powered webinar-based sessions are captured and unified, providing a powerful set of event analytics. With the return of large-scale in-person events, we are seeing less demand for ON24 Virtual Conference and we have deemphasized this product. As such, we do not consider ON24 Virtual Conference as part of our Core Platform. Our Technology and Infrastructure Our platform and products have been developed to enable enterprise-grade scalability, performance and reliability, designed to address all the complexities that come with live, interactive engagement with large audiences of prospective customers. Our platform has two main parts: a web application stack, and a streaming infrastructure stack, running on two co-located data centers in the United States and one in the European Union (EU). We also utilize public-cloud providers as part of our infrastructure. Our web application stack processes requests from web browsers and APIs. Our streaming infrastructure stack processes live signal acquisition from our customers, encodes it, and delivers it to audiences via a redundant set of content delivery networks. The streaming infrastructure stack is designed to accept inputs from our customers on a wide variety of devices, combine them into an online virtual bridge, and to incorporate controls into the ON24 Elite Studio experience for presenters. The bridged signal is then encoded and distributed to diverse global audiences, who can access it as part of an online experience on desktop and mobile devices. This presentation contains video along with other interactive components, all synchronized and controlled by our customers. We continue to transition more of our capabilities to a hybrid cloud infrastructure, which we believe will enhance our platforms flexibility and scalability. We built our platform and products to address the robust performance demanded by large, multinational enterprises in the following ways: Performance and scalability: Our Cloud and Network Operations team runs this application in three data centers. This configuration has proven both scalable and cost effective. Our application architecture allows us to independently scale the systems that handle heavier loads, with a lightweight load-balancers routing traffic to additional machines as needed. With leading enterprise components, we expect our architecture to scale readily without any significant change as our business expands. 11 Table of Contents Privacy and compliance: Our platform includes features and options designed to support compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, the UK GDPR, the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA, and other privacy laws, and provides options and features to enable customers to make privacy and compliance choices that align to their needs and relevant legal requirements. For example, our platform enables customers to implement tailored notice and consent language, customize registration forms and obtain consent for marketing and other processing activities. In addition, our flexible APIs allow businesses to build solutions to automate compliance with certain data subject requests. Security: We conduct regular penetration tests, web vulnerability scans, and code reviews to enhance the security of our platform in accordance with our cybersecurity program as discussed in more detail under Item 1C. Cybersecurity herein. Our Customers Our customer base consists of a diverse set of businesses from fast-growing start-ups to established Fortune 100 enterprises that span a number of industries where B2B sales and marketing is mission critical. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 22% of the Fortune 500 are ON24 customers. The primary industries we serve include technology, financial services, life sciences, manufacturing and professional services, among others. All of these industries are undergoing a digital transformation, and, as a result, we see opportunities for growth in product adoption, attachments and revenue across all verticals fueling both our customer acquisition and land and expand strategies. No single customer contributed more than 10% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021. Sales and Marketing We primarily sell our products through direct sales, which comprises field and inside sales personnel. Our sales organization is comprised of market-centric teams focusing on Enterprise and Commercial customers segmented by employee headcounts. Our field sales organization is specialized to execute our land and expand strategy and primarily focuses on Enterprise and Commercial customers while our inside sales team specializes in driving further adoption of ON24 products to our existing customers as well as sourcing new customers. Our-go-to-market strategy consists of four key components, including acquiring and expanding wallet share within large accounts, focusing on the Commercial market, driving increased product attachments through continued customer innovation, and expanding into new geographies to drive continued international growth. Marketing We have built an efficient and impactful go-to-market engine by using the ON24 platform as the foundation of our marketing strategy. Due to the deep engagement and actionable data generated by our interactive digital experiences, we are able to quickly qualify leads, provide our sales team with personalized insights and accelerate our highest priority buyers to our sales team. Our marketing team focuses on inbound and outbound marketing through our industry-leading content and resources and by sharing customer best practices. We use multiple marketing tactics to build brand awareness and generate demand, including media communications, user conferences, digital marketing, partner co-marketing, product marketing and customer marketing. We track and measure our marketing costs and results closely across all channels to support our efforts to optimize marketing channels that drive our sales pipeline. Customer Success We believe that our highly responsive and effective support and education are an extension of our brand and are core to building and maintaining user trust. Our global customer success team is closely embedded with our customers and supports their day-to-day usage of our platform, including advising on best practices and providing technical support, services, and training. Our platform support team offers technical support, chat support and live webinar experience emergency support that is available to our customers 24/7. Our portfolio of services provides consulting, support for platform, and product and event adoption as well as support for experience management, monitoring and production. Our training team oversees onboarding, training, certification and a knowledge center. We have a data-driven process and well-established operations in place that proactively monitor our customers platform adoption, utilization and success. This approach enables us to efficiently scale our customer success operations as our customer base grows. 12 Table of Contents Research and Development Our research and development team are responsible for the design, development, testing, and delivery of new products, platform capabilities, product features and platform integrations, connectors and APIs. We release major platform upgrades regularly with minor upgrades released as needed. Research and development employees are based primarily in our San Francisco headquarters, and we also contract with remote U.S.-based and offshore workers. Competition Our industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete for customers with a number of different types of companies that offer a variety of products and services, including meeting tools, webinar software, virtual event software, video portal software, content management software, physical events, physical event software and digital marketing tools. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Our solutions face competition. For example, several web-based meeting, webinar, and virtual event software products are offered by companies such as Zoom, LogMeIn, Microsoft, Cisco, Cvent, Adobe, RingCentral, Notified and Kaltura. Many of these products have significantly lower prices. Although many of these companies are limited in their ability to deliver both real-time engagement features and the extent of actionable data that we gather, many of these companies have significantly greater resources and may be able to introduce similar products in the future. Additionally, we operate in a market which has experienced a rapid increase in the number of new and competitive entrants in the recent past and may again in the future. As we introduce new solutions, and with the introduction of new technologies, products and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify. We believe the principal competitive factors in our markets are: functionality in providing rich, interactive digital experiences; ability to gather near real-time data insights; breadth of functionality within a single platform, including AI capabilities; ease of use and reliability; cloud-based architecture; scalability; security, privacy and compliance; integration into leading marketing automation, CRM and BI platforms; and global, always available customer service and support. We believe we compete favorably with respect to each of these factors. Intellectual Property We primarily rely, and expect to continue to rely, on a combination of patent, trade secret and domain name protection, trademark and copyright laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. In the United States and abroad, as of December 31, 2023, we had 19 issued patents and 26 pending patent applications, the earliest of which expires in 2027. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Our trademarks and service marks include our name and logo, as well as various marketing slogans. We maintain a policy requiring our employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements to control access to our proprietary information. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. Regulatory Considerations The legal environment of Internet-based businesses is evolving rapidly in the United States and elsewhere. The manner in which existing laws and regulations are applied in this environment, and how they will relate to our business in particular, both in the United States and internationally, is often unclear. For example, we sometimes cannot be certain which laws will be deemed applicable to us given the global nature of our business, including with respect to such topics as data privacy and security, pricing, credit card fraud, advertising, taxation, content regulation and intellectual property ownership and infringement. 13 Table of Contents Businesses use our platform to engage with and market to their prospects and customers. In doing so, these businesses: (a) upload, broadcast, collect and store data and content within our platform, subject to relatively few general restrictions imposed by us, aside from the technical capabilities and limitation inherent in our platform, (b) use tools and reports available in our platform to access analytics and insights about attendees, experiences and content, and (c) personalize content and experiences to prospects and customers. This presents potential compliance challenges to our business and operations because we do not control customer content and information practices within our platform. Thus, we cannot ensure that information collection and processing by or on behalf of customers, within our platform, complies with applicable privacy, data protection and other laws. Similarly, we cannot ensure that customer content and use of our platform does not infringe or violate rights of privacy or intellectual property rights. At the same time, given the developing and varied nature of privacy and intellectual property laws globally, we cannot guarantee that ON24 would never be subject to potential or actual claims or enforcement actions associated with customer content or use of our platform. Thus, both in the United States and internationally, we must monitor and take steps to respond to a host of legal, compliance and risk issues regarding the data stored and processed by customers on our platform. These include, without limitation, the following: Privacy, Data Protection and Security Businesses use our platform to facilitate better engagement with their customers and prospects, derive insights about content and usage, and provide more meaningful and targeted experiences and content. These capabilities rely on collection and processing of information from and about customers and prospects that interact with the business or its content on our platform. As a result, compliance with laws and regulations regarding data privacy, AI, cybersecurity, data protection, data breaches, and the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of personal data, which we refer to as privacy laws, are critical to our compliance and risk strategy. Globally, numerous jurisdictions have passed or are actively considering new or amended privacy laws. As a result, privacy laws are increasing in number, enforcement, and fines and other penalties. Beyond legislative developments, decisions by courts and regulatory bodies relating to privacy laws can also have a significant impact on us and other businesses that operate across international jurisdictions. In some cases, privacy laws apply directly to both ON24 and our customers and in other cases our customers pass through compliance obligations and requirements to us contractually. Further, under some privacy laws, ON24 may be considered a processor or a service provider and our customers a controller or business, while other privacy laws may not clearly distinguish between such roles. In all cases, however, ON24 must monitor, respond to and address privacy laws and related compliance, whether to ensure its own compliance or enable compliant use of its platform by ON24 customers. In general, our failure to adequately safeguard data adequately, address privacy compliance, or comply with our security and privacy commitments to customers could subject us, not only to contractual liability to customers and direct liability under privacy laws, but also to reputational harm and regulatory investigations or enforcement actions under U.S. (federal and state) and international laws and regulations relating to consumer protection and unfair business practices. More particularly, certain privacy law developments could have significant impacts to our platform and business. For example, privacy laws that restrict the use of personal information for marketing purposes or the tracking of individuals online activities (such as the EUs proposed ePrivacy Regulation and CCPA), could expose us to additional regulatory burdens or necessitate changes to our platform or certain features. In addition, certain countries have passed or are considering passing laws that impose data localization requirements or cross border data transfer restrictions on certain data. As with most cloud-based solutions, restrictions on the transfer of platform data outside of the originating jurisdiction pose particular challenges that could result in additional costs or otherwise impact platform use. With the evolving legal landscape, the scope, interpretation and enforcement of privacy laws could change and new or amended laws may take effect. As a result, the associated burdens and compliance costs on us and our platform could increase in the future. Although we continue to monitor and respond to privacy legal developments and have invested in addressing major privacy law developments (such as the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA), it is not possible for us to predict with certainty the effect of these developments on our platform and business. Copyrights U.S. and international copyright and trademark laws protect the rights of third parties from infringement of their intellectual property. Our customers and their users can generally use our platform to upload and present a wide variety of content. We maintain a copyright infringement policy and respond to takedown requests by third-party intellectual property right owners that might result from content uploaded to our platform. As our business expands to other countries, we must also respond to regional and country-specific intellectual property considerations, including takedown and cease-and-desist notices in foreign languages, and we must build infrastructure to support these processes. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, also applies to our business. This statute provides relief for claims of circumvention of copyright-protected technologies but includes a safe harbor that is intended to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites or hosting content that infringes copyrights of others. The copyright infringement policies that we have implemented for our platform are intended to satisfy the DMCA safe harbor. 14 Table of Contents Employees and Human Capital As of December 31, 2023, we had 462 full-time employees. Of these employees, 366 are based in the United States and 96 are based in international locations. The members of our management team and our board of directors come from diverse backgrounds, and we seek to attract and recruit diverse, talented, experienced and motivated employees. In order to develop and improve our platform, we must invest in attracting, developing and retaining key talent. We monitor our progress with human capital metrics such as turnover, time to fill open roles and rate of internally developed talent. Our brand, market position, reputation for innovation and culture support our ability to recruit and retain talented employees across our departments. Corporate Information ON24, Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation on January 8, 1998 under the name NewsDirect, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 50 Beale Street, 8th Floor, San Francisco, California 94105, and our telephone number is (415) 369-8000. Our website address is www.on24.com. Information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not part of and is not incorporated by reference into this Report, and you should not consider information on our website to be part of this Report. We own various U.S. federal trademarks and unregistered trademarks, including our company name, logo and solution names and other trade or service marks. All other trademarks or trade names referred to in this Report are the property of their respective owners. Solely for convenience, the trademarks and trade names in this Report are referred to without the symbols and , but such references should not be construed as any indicator that their respective owners will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, their rights thereto. Available Information We maintain a website at www.on24.com, where we make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and other reports or documents filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Investors and others should note that we announce material financial and other information to our investors using our investor relations website (https://investors.on24.com), SEC filings, press releases, public conferences or conference calls, webcasts and other meetings. We encourage investors, the media and others interested in our company to review this information. We also use social media channels, including those of our Chief Executive Officer, Sharat Sharan, to communicate with our customers and the public generally about our company, our services, the industry and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on social media channels. 15 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as in our other filings with the SEC, in evaluating our business and before investing in our common stock. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those risks discussed at-length below. You should read these risks before you invest in our common stock. our ability to grow our revenue; our ability to attract new customers and expand sales to existing customers; fluctuation in our performance, our history of net losses and any increases in our expenses; competition and technological development in our markets and any decline in demand for our solutions or generally in our markets; adverse general economic and market conditions and spending on sales and marketing technology; our ability to expand our sales and marketing capabilities and achieve growth; the impact of the resumption of in-person marketing activities on our customer growth rate; disruptions, interruptions, outages or other issues with our technology or our use of third-party services, data connectors and data centers; the impact of any cybersecurity-related attack, significant data breach or disruption of the information technology systems or networks on which we rely; our sales cycle, our international presence and our timing of revenue recognition from our sales; interoperability with other devices, systems and applications; compliance with data privacy, import and export controls, customs, sanctions and other laws and regulations; intellectual property matters, including any infringements of third-party intellectual property rights by us or infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties; and the market for, trading price of and other matters associated with our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry Our revenue growth rate has decreased in recent years following a period of rapid growth, and we may not be able to increase our revenue in future periods. Our revenue growth rate has decreased in recent years following a period of rapid growth. Although we experienced significant revenue growth in 2020 and 2021, including a revenue increase of 30% in 2021 compared to 2020, in subsequent years we have seen declines. In 2022 our revenue decreased 6% compared to 2021 and in 2023 our revenue decreased 14% compared to 2022. The decreases reflect a number of factors including reduced budgets for our customers, the reduced impact of COVID-19 which resulted in customers doing more in-person marketing and competitive dynamics. If our revenue does not increase in future periods, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Furthermore, if we cannot attract new customers to our platform or our existing customers do not continue their subscriptions, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. As a result of our limited operating history at our current scale, our ability to forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. You should not rely on our rapid growth in 2021 or 2020, or our revenue decline in 2022 or 2023, or any other prior period, as an indication of our future performance. In future periods, our revenue may decline for a number of reasons, including any reduction in demand for our platform, increased competition, higher market penetration, a contraction of our overall market, our inability to accurately forecast demand for our platform and plan for capacity constraints or our failure, for any reason, to capitalize on growth opportunities. If our revenue does not grow, investors perceptions of our business and the trading price of our common stock may continue to be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations and financial condition may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results of operations and financial condition may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. For example, our revenue decreased in every quarter of 2023 compared to the same periods in 2022 and we may face similar declines in future periods, as our customers and their users resume more in-person marketing activities. Further, because we generally invoice our customers at the beginning of the contractual terms of their subscriptions to our solutions, our financial condition reflects deferred revenue that we recognize ratably as revenue over the contractual term. As the impact of COVID-19 has lessened, we have observed fewer new subscriptions and renewals, and our cash and deferred revenue have decreased. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our securities. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: our ability to retain and expand customer usage; our ability to attract new customers; our ability to hire and retain employees, in particular those responsible for the selling or marketing of our platform and provide sales leadership in areas in which we are expanding our sales and marketing efforts; changes in the way we organize and compensate our sales teams; the timing of expenses and recognition of revenue; the length of sales cycles; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, as well as international expansion and entry into operating leases; timing and effectiveness of new sales and marketing initiatives; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; the timing and success of new products, features and functionality by us or our competitors; interruptions or delays in our service, network outages, or actual or perceived privacy or security breaches; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; the timing or amount of any share repurchases, including any impact from the excise tax on stock buybacks created by the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022; one or more large indemnification payments to our customers or other third parties; the timing of expenses related to any future acquisitions; and general economic and market conditions. Failure to attract new customers or retain, expand the usage of, and upsell our products to existing customers would harm our business and growth prospects. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue and cash flows from sales of subscriptions to our products. As such, our business depends upon our ability to attract new customers and to maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers, including by expanding their usage and upselling additional solutions. Our business is largely subscription-based, and customers are not obligated to and may not renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire. As a result, customers may not renew their subscriptions at the same rate, increase their usage of our solutions or purchase subscriptions for additional solutions, if they renew at all. Renewals of subscriptions may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, such as dissatisfaction with our solutions or support, the loss or reduction of available budget, a change in key stakeholders or decision makers, a customer no longer having a need for our solutions or the perception that competitive products provide better or less expensive options. For example, some organizations that purchased our ON24 Virtual Conference product are returning to in-person events and no longer need the large-scale virtual event experience functionality provided by this product. In order to grow our business, we strive to add new customers and replace customers who choose not to continue to use our platform. Any decrease in user satisfaction with our solutions or support may result in negative online customer reviews and decreased word-of-mouth referrals, which would harm our brand and our ability to grow. In addition to striving to attract new customers to our platform, we seek to expand the usage of our solutions by our existing customers by increasing the number of departments, divisions and teams that use our solutions within each of our customers. If we fail to expand the usage of our solutions by existing customers or if customers fail to purchase other solutions from us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. 17 Table of Contents Competition in our markets is intense, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. We compete for customers with a number of different types of companies that offer a variety of products and services, including meeting tools, webinar software, virtual event software, video portal software, content management software, physical events, physical event software, marketing automation software, and digital marketing tools. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Our solutions face competition from a number of web-based meeting, webinar, physical event and marketing software products offered by companies such as Zoom, LogMeIn, Microsoft, Cisco, Cvent, Adobe, RingCentral, Notified and Kaltura. Many of these products have significantly lower prices. Although many of these companies do not currently offer products with real-time engagement features that gather the types and extent of actionable data that we gather, many of these companies have significantly greater resources and may be able to introduce similar products in the future. Additionally, we operate in a market which has experienced a rapid increase in the number of new and competitive entrants in the recent past and may again in the future. Furthermore, this market has seen rapid expansion, which may attract additional entrants, any of which could be our current business partners. As we introduce new solutions and services, and with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Many factors, including our pricing and marketing strategies, customer acquisition, and technology costs, as well as the pricing and marketing strategies of our competitors, can significantly affect our pricing strategies. Certain competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or free products or services that compete with our entire platform or certain aspects of our platform, and they may offer a broader range of products and services than we do. Even if such competing products do not include all of the features and functionality that our solutions provide, we could face pricing pressure to the extent that customers find such alternative products to be sufficient to meet their needs. Similarly, certain competitors or potential competitors may use marketing strategies that enable them to acquire customers at a lower cost than we can. Moreover, larger organizations, which are a primary focus of our direct sales efforts, may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, we may be required to provide larger organizations with pricing below our targets in the future. As a result, we could lose market share to our competitors or be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives or other discounts to attract and retain customers, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse or weakened general economic and market conditions may cause a reduction in spending on sales and marketing technology, which could harm our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows. Our revenue, results of operations, and cash flows depend on the overall demand for and use of technology for sales and marketing, which depends in part on the amount of spending allocated by our customers or potential customers on sales and marketing technology. This spending depends on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions. The U.S. and other key international economies have experienced cyclical downturns from time to time in which economic activity was impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, inflation (including wage inflation), labor market constraints, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, equity, and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, pandemics such as COVID-19, and overall economic uncertainty. These economic conditions can arise suddenly, including the recent rise in inflation and overall macroeconomic environment, which has negatively impacted our customers marketing budgets. In addition, geopolitical developments, such as potential trade wars, and actions or inactions of the U.S. or other major national governments, can increase levels of political and economic unpredictability globally and increase the volatility of global financial markets. In response to general economic uncertainty and over-hiring during COVID-19, many U.S. companies, particularly in the technology sector, laid off employees in mass job cuts in 2022 and 2023. Since the third quarter of 2022, we have initiated multiple strategic cost reductions, which included a reduction of our global full-time employee headcount by approximately 11% from June 30, 2022 to December 31, 2022, as well as multiple reductions in 2023 that reduced our headcount as of December 31, 2023 by approximately 28% from December 31, 2022 levels, which may impact our ability to operate our business. In the future we may have to consider additional or larger scale reductions in force if economic conditions worsen and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Market volatility, decreased consumer confidence, and diminished growth expectations in the U.S. economy and abroad as a result of the foregoing events could affect the rate of sales and marketing spending and could adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase our services, delay prospective customers purchasing decisions, reduce the value or duration of their subscription contracts, or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our future sales and operating results. Some of our customers may view a subscription to our platform as a discretionary purchase, and our customers may reduce their discretionary spending on our platform during an economic downturn. In addition, weak economic conditions, including during times of high inflation and tightening budgets, can result in customers seeking to utilize lower-cost solutions that are available from alternative sources. Prolonged economic slowdowns may result in requests to renegotiate existing contracts on less advantageous terms to us than those currently in place, payment defaults on existing contracts, or non-renewal at the end of a contract term. 18 Table of Contents A decline in demand for our solutions or for live engagement technologies in general could harm our business. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue and cash flows from sales of subscriptions to our solutions. As a result, widespread adoption and use of live engagement technologies, webinars and event software in general, and our platform in particular, are critical to our future growth and success. If this market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our platform could be negatively affected. Demand for our platform is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these potential factors include: availability of products and services that compete, directly or indirectly, with ours; introduction of free or do-it-yourself products; awareness and adoption of the live engagement technologies category generally as a substitute for in-person events; ease of adoption and use; features and platform experience; reliability of our platform, including frequency of outages; performance and user support; our brand and reputation; security and privacy; our pricing and our competitors pricing; and new modes of live engagement that may be developed in the future. If we fail to successfully predict and address these factors, meet customer demands or achieve more widespread market adoption of our platform, our business would be harmed. We have a history of net losses, and we may increase our expenses in the future, which could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. We had a net loss of $51.8 million in 2023 and $58.2 million in 2022, and we may incur net losses in the future. We intend to continue to expend funds on our direct sales force and marketing efforts to attract new customers and increase usage of our platform and products by our existing customers, to develop and enhance our platform and for general corporate purposes. To the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we may also incur increased losses because most of the costs associated with acquiring customers (other than sales commissions) are incurred up front, while the related subscription revenue is generally recognized ratably over the applicable subscription term. In addition, we may incur increased losses because most of the costs associated with acquiring customers, including sales commissions, require us to make cash outlays at the time we acquire a customer, and, similarly, the timing of our recognition of subscription revenue and sales commissions may not correspond with our cash position. Our subscriptions typically have terms of one year that automatically renew for successive one-year terms unless terminated. We also have certain customers with subscription terms for up to three years. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses and any increase in our cost of sales, including as a result of a shift to a hybrid cloud. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the value of our business and common stock may significantly decrease. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our platform, user adoption and renewal of subscriptions to our platform, and the entry or the success of competitive products and services. As a result, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in future periods. The failure to effectively develop and expand our marketing and sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform. Our ability to increase our customer base, expand the usage of our existing customers and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to effectively manage our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force and on our marketing efforts in order to obtain new customers. We have in the past expanded and may in the future expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for experienced sales professionals with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we currently require or may require in the future. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of qualified and experienced sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new industries or geographies. New hires may not become as productive as quickly as we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets and segments where we do business. Our business may be harmed if our sales efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenue. 19 Table of Contents Issues with the use of AI in our platform may result in reputational harm or liability, or could otherwise adversely affect our business. We have built and are continuing to build AI-powered capabilities, which includes generative AI, natural language processing and machine learning, into our platform, leveraging the data collected by our customers through our platform to enable better engagement and create enhanced content. While we have incorporated these capabilities into several of our products, including our newly launched ACE, and plan to further use AI in our platform, as with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its availability and adoption, including current legal uncertainties around the use of AI and possible new laws and regulations, and therefore our business. We partially rely on third-party providers of AI technology, and those third-party providers may be required to change, suspend, or restrict access to their services. AI algorithms may be flawed. Datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. Generated content may contain copyrighted or infringing materials. Any deficiencies and other failures of the AI-powered capabilities in our platform could reduce the demand for our marketplace, result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by us or others could also result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could require us to refund fees to customers or subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability (including under new proposed legislation regulating AI in jurisdictions such as the US and EU, the application of existing data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws), and brand or reputational harm. Some AI scenarios may present ethical issues. If AI features that we enable or offer are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. We rely heavily on third parties for parts of our computing, storage, processing, application integration and similar services. Any disruption of or interference with our use of these third-party services could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have outsourced aspects of our infrastructure to third-party providers, and we currently use these providers to host and stream content and support our platform. For example, our content delivery networks and some of our interactive video functionality and integration services are provided by third parties, and we plan to continue our transition to a hybrid cloud infrastructure in the future. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to service interruptions experienced by these providers, and we expect to experience interruptions, delays, or outages in service availability in the future due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human, hardware or software errors, hosting disruptions, and capacity constraints. We expect that our transition to a hybrid cloud infrastructure will require significant investment and have a continuing effect on our cost of revenue and may not be effective in improving our capacity or redundancy. Outages and capacity constraints could also arise from a number of causes such as technical failures, natural disasters, fraud, or security attacks. The level of service provided by these providers, or regular or prolonged interruptions in that service, could also affect the use of, and our customers satisfaction with, our solutions and could harm our business and reputation. In addition, third-party costs will increase as subscriptions and customer use of our platform grows, which could harm our business if we are unable to grow our revenue faster than the cost of using these services or the services of similar providers. Furthermore, our providers may change the terms of service and policies pursuant to which they provide services to us, and those actions may be unfavorable to our business operations. Our providers may also take actions beyond our control that could seriously harm our business, including discontinuing or limiting our access to one or more services, increasing pricing terms, terminating or seeking to terminate our contractual relationship altogether, or altering how we are able to process data in a way that is unfavorable or costly to us. For example, some businesses providing data connectors to our products may fail to properly integrate with our platform and third-party sales and marketing systems, stop servicing the data connectors or cease development and support, any of which may limit functionality of our products. In addition, some businesses that provide cloud services and data connectors are or may become our competitors and may take one or more of the foregoing actions in an effort to compete with our platform. Although we expect that we could obtain similar services from other third parties, if our arrangements with our current providers were terminated, we could experience interruptions on our platform and in our ability to make our content available to customers, as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging for alternative cloud infrastructure services. Any of these factors could cause network disruptions, or even network failure, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, and cause our customers to decline to renew their subscriptions, any of which could harm our business. Interruptions, delays or outages in service from the data centers we use for our technology or infrastructure could impair the delivery and the functionality of our solutions, which may harm our business. Our growth, brand, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers depends in part on the ability of our customers to access our platform at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. We currently use U.S. data centers in Colorado and California. While each of our U.S. data centers provide fully redundant processing, we estimate that failover may require as long as 120 minutes to complete, during which time our platform may not be fully available to customers in the event of catastrophic failure at one of those data centers. In addition, our data center redundancy does not ensure that all platform disruptions can be restored within 120 minutes in the absence of a catastrophic failure at one of these data centers. For example, it is possible that ON24 platform services could be impacted by a cybersecurity incident that cannot be fully resolved by failover to another data center. 20 Table of Contents To facilitate additional growth in Europe, we opened a data center in the EU in 2021. We have limited experience operating a data center in the EU. Our efforts to further diversify our data centers, including internationally, may not be successful. We intend to add failover redundancy for our EU data center, but we currently do not have it, and it may take longer than we expect to add it. While the data in our EU data center is fully backed up in a different location, restoring from backup may take a meaningful period of time. We also do not control the operation of the data centers we use, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, natural disasters, war, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks and other cybersecurity incidents, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events, any of which could disrupt our service. In the event of significant physical damage to one of these data centers, it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our platform, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. In addition, our platform is proprietary, and we depend on the expertise and efforts of members of our operations and software development teams for its continued performance. Our ability to retain, attract, hire and train staff in these groups may prove to be a challenge for a variety of factors and could have an adverse impact on the platform. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, zero-day vulnerabilities, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform concurrently and denial-of-service attacks, ransomware attacks and other cybersecurity incidents by malicious actors. In some instances, we may not be able to rectify these performance issues within an acceptable period of time. Our ability to attract and retain customers depends on our ability to provide our customers and their users with a highly reliable platform. If our platform is unavailable or if our customers and their users are unable to access our platform within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Additionally, if the data centers we use are unable to keep up with our increasing need for capacity, our customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our business. Cybersecurity-related attacks, significant data breaches or disruptions of the information technology systems or networks on which we rely could negatively affect our business. Our operations rely on information technology systems for the use, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential information with respect to our customers, our customers users, third-party technology platforms and our employees. In addition, our solutions gather more information from our customers and their users than many competing products, which may make us an attractive target for a malicious cybersecurity attack, intrusion or disruption, or other breach of our systems. Any such event could lead to unauthorized access to, use of, disclosure of or the loss of sensitive and confidential information, disruption of our platform, and resulting regulatory enforcement actions, litigation, indemnity obligations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, any of which could damage our reputation, impair sales and harm our business. For example, in June 2021 we were subject to a security incident involving ransomware, which impacted certain internal systems and a limited number of customer events. Some data maintained in our internal systems was also impacted. Promptly upon detecting the incident, we launched an investigation, engaged with law enforcement, and took steps to contain the incident and restore impacted event types. Such security incident has not resulted in any material impact to our operations, ability to provide our services, results of operations or financial position. While we believe we have responded appropriately to date, including with respect to the steps we have taken to contain the security incident in 2021 and our implementation of remedial measures with the goal of preventing security incidents in the future, these remedial measures may not be successful in preventing future security incidents, which may result in adverse impacts to our operations, ability to provide our services, results of operations or financial position. Additionally, as our market presence grows, we may face increased risks of cyber-related attacks or security threats in the future. Cyberattacks and other malicious internet-based activity continue to increase, and cloud-based providers of products and services have been and are expected to continue to be targeted. In addition to traditional computer hackers, malicious code (such as viruses and worms), phishing, ransomware, employee theft or misuse and other insider threats, and denial-of-service attacks, sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors now engage in attacks (including advanced persistent threat intrusions). As we grow, we may face increased risk of any such attacks. Despite efforts to create security barriers to such threats, it is not feasible, as a practical matter, for us to entirely mitigate these risks. If our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee, customer, or user error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation would be damaged, our data, information or intellectual property, or those of our customers, may be destroyed, stolen or otherwise compromised, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liability. We may be unable in the future to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or compromise of our systems because they change frequently and are generally not detected until after an incident has occurred. We may not be able to prevent vulnerabilities in our software or address vulnerabilities that we may become aware of in the future. Further, as we rely on third-party cloud infrastructure, we depend in part on third-party security measures to protect against unauthorized access, cyberattacks and the mishandling of data and information. 21 Table of Contents Any cybersecurity event or any future vulnerability in our software, cyberattack, intrusion or disruption, could result in significant increases in costs, including costs for remediating the effects of such an event, lost revenue due to network downtime, a decrease in customer and user trust, increases in insurance premiums due to cybersecurity incidents, increased costs to address cybersecurity issues and attempts to prevent future incidents, and harm to our business and our reputation because of any such incident. In addition, such incidents and data breaches can give rise to penalties and fines under data protection and cybersecurity laws, rules and regulations, enforcement actions, contractual damages, class actions, customer audits and other liability. Many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to provide notice of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. Under some of these laws, such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), data breach is defined very broadly to include any accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to any personal data, regardless of the sensitivity of such data. In addition, certain platform information may be made available via unique links to publicly accessible webpages, which could be accessed by unauthorized individuals. While the information accessible via these pages is limited, it is possible that a regulator, customer or third party could view this negatively, in particular in light of the broad definition of personal data and data breach under certain laws. In addition, we have contractual obligations to notify our customers of any data breaches involving their personal data processed by us. Any limitation of liability provisions in our subscription agreements may not be enforceable or adequate or may not otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any claim related to a cybersecurity incident. Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. The insurer may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, would harm our business. Further, security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, encourage consumers to restrict the sharing of their personal data with our customers or social media networks, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could harm our business. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes, extend our platform or develop new features. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service introductions. Our ability to attract new customers and retain and expand the usage of existing customers depends on our ability to continue to enhance and improve our platform, to introduce new features and solutions and to interoperate across an increasing range of devices, operating systems and third-party applications. Our customers may require features and capabilities that our current platform does not have. While we are committed to investing in research and development and are focused on improving the quality and range of our product offerings, we have recently reduced our level of investment in research and development which may impact the rate at which we are able to enhance and improve our platform or introduce new features and solutions. Furthermore, we made significant headcount reductions in 2022 and 2023 to reduce our cost structure. Reductions in our workforce could result in the loss of valuable skills and knowledge and have a negative impact on morale, which can impact our ability to innovate. Our enhancements to our platform and our new product experiences, features or capabilities may not be compelling to our existing or potential customers and may not gain market acceptance. If our research and development investments do not accurately anticipate customer demand, or if we fail to develop our platform in a manner that satisfies customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may fail to retain our existing customers or increase demand for our platform. The introduction of competing products and services or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our platform obsolete or adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulties with software development, design or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new product experiences, features, or capabilities. New product experiences, features or capabilities may not be released according to schedule. Any delays could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue or market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could harm our business. If customers do not widely adopt our new product experiences, features and capabilities, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment. If we are unable to develop, license or acquire new features and capabilities to our platform on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business would be harmed. 22 Table of Contents Our sales cycle with Enterprise customers can be long and unpredictable. A substantial portion of our business is with large Enterprise customers. We define a customer as a unique organization, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, that has entered into an agreement for paid access to our platform. As of December 31, 2023, we had 325 $100k Customers, which are generally large organizations, representing 66% of our ARR. The timing of our sales with our Enterprise customers and related revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and uncertainty of the sales cycle for these customers. We are often required to spend significant time and resources to educate and familiarize these potential customers with the value proposition of paying for our platform. The length of our sales cycle for these customers, from initial evaluation to payment for our platform, is often around three to six months or more and can vary substantially from customer to customer. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether and when a sale will be completed. An inability to increase our Enterprise customer base could harm our business. Our results of operations have been and may be adversely impacted by market behavior as COVID-19 has subsided. As the impact of COVID-19 has subsided, our current and prospective customers, and their users, have chosen to do more in-person marketing. This has contributed to reduced demand for our platform. Due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of COVID-19 may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In addition, uncertainty regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our future operating results and financial condition has contributed to our decisions to pursue cost-cutting measures and reduce the level of our capital investments, and similar concerns may contribute to our delaying or canceling the implementation of strategic initiatives, any of which may negatively impact our business and reputation. The global macroeconomic effects of COVID-19 and related impacts on our customers business operations and their demand for our solutions may persist, even after any future spikes of COVID-19. In addition, the effects of COVID-19 may heighten many of the other risks we face, including those described in this Report. We have significant operations outside the United States, where we may be subject to increased business and economic risks that could harm our business. We have significant operations outside of the United States. In 2023, we generated 23% of our revenue from customers outside of the United States. In prior periods, we have focused on expanding our international operations and we may continue to do so in future periods. For example, in 2020, we established a subsidiary in Japan to support our operations in the Asia-Pacific region and in 2022 we established a subsidiary in Germany to support our operations in the EMEA. Future efforts to expand our current international operations, including entering new markets or countries, may not be effective. For example, we may not be able to expand further in some markets if we are not able to satisfy certain government- and industry-specific requirements. In addition, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally in the future may require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems and commercial markets. Any future international expansion will require investment of significant funds and other resources. Operating internationally subjects us to special risks, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees outside the United States and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our platform and operating our business across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our platform and features to ensure that they are culturally appropriate and relevant in different countries; determining the appropriate pricing strategy to enable us to compete effectively internationally, which may be different than the pricing strategies that have worked for us in the United States; compliance with applicable international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data protection and marketing, and the risk of penalties to us and individual members of management or employees if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; management of an employee base in jurisdictions that may not give us the same employment and retention flexibility as does the United States; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations including the proper classification of independent contractors and other contingent workers, differing employer/employee relationships, and local employment laws; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States and the practical enforcement of such intellectual property rights outside of the United States; foreign government interference with our intellectual property that is developed outside of the United States, such as the risk that changes in foreign laws could restrict our ability to use our intellectual property outside of the jurisdiction in which we developed it; integration with partners outside of the United States; 23 Table of Contents compliance by us and our business partners with anti-corruption laws, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory limitations on our ability to provide our platform in certain international markets; foreign business restrictions, foreign exchange controls and similar laws that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; political and economic instability; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including the imposition of new trade restrictions, trade protection measures, import or export requirements, trade embargoes and other trade barriers; generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the income and other tax laws of the United States or the international jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. In addition, following Russias military invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, NATO deployed additional military forces to Eastern Europe, and the United States, European Union, and other nations announced various sanctions against Russia. The invasion of Ukraine has triggered unprecedented sanctions against Russia by the U.S., NATO, and other countries which has created global security concerns that have had a lasting impact on regional and global economies, any or all of which could adversely affect our business. In 2023, we experienced a decrease of 12% in total revenue from customers in the EMEA region as compared to 2022, which we believe was in part driven by the uncertain macroeconomic environment surrounding the Ukraine-Russia war. We are actively monitoring the conflict in Ukraine to assess its ongoing impact on our business, as well as on our customers and other parties with whom we do business. Separately, in October 2023, an armed conflict began in Israel and the Gaza Strip. It is not possible to predict the broader consequences of these ongoing conflicts, which could include further sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, and geopolitical shifts. It is also not possible to predict with certainty these ongoing conflicts and additional adverse effects on existing macroeconomic conditions, consumer spending habits, currency exchange rates, and financial markets. We are actively monitoring these conflicts to assess their ongoing impact on our business, as well as on our customers and other parties with whom we do business. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our global operations substantially increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. We may be unable to keep current with changes in laws and regulations in each jurisdiction as they occur. Our policies and procedures designed to support compliance with these laws and regulations may not always result in our compliance or that of our employees, contractors, partners and agents. Any violations could result in enforcement actions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions or reputational harm. If we are unable to comply with these laws and regulations or manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, we may need to relocate or cease operations in certain foreign jurisdictions. We recognize revenue from subscriptions to our platform over the terms of the subscriptions. Consequently, increases or decreases in new sales are generally not immediately reflected in our results of operations and may be difficult to discern. We recognize revenue from subscriptions to our platform over the terms of the subscriptions. As a result, a substantial portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter may have a small impact on the revenue that we recognize for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of customer expansion or retention may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our costs are recognized as they are incurred, while revenue is recognized over the term of the subscription. As a result, growth in the number of new customers has in the past and may in the future result in our recognition of higher costs and lower revenue in the earlier periods of such growth. Finally, our subscription-based revenue model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers or from existing customers that increase their usage of our product offerings must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. 24 Table of Contents Our ability to sell subscriptions to our products could be harmed by real or perceived material defects or errors in our platform or by other matters that may interrupt the availability of our platform or cause performance issues. The software underlying our platform is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when we first introduce new solutions or when we release new features or capabilities. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our platform, and we or our users may detect new defects or errors in our existing or future platform or solutions. Any real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our platform could result in negative publicity or lead to data security, access, retention or other performance issues, all of which could harm our business. We may incur substantial costs in correcting such defects or errors and such costs could harm our business. Moreover, the harm to our reputation and potential legal liability related to such defects or errors may be substantial and could harm our business. Our platform also utilizes hardware that we purchase or lease and software and services that we procure from third parties. In some cases, this includes software we license from international companies that may in the future become subject to legal or regulatory limitations on their ability to provide software outside of their jurisdiction. Any defects in, or unavailability of, our third-party hardware, software or services that cause interruptions to the availability of our platform, loss of data or performance issues could, among other things: cause a reduction in our revenue or a delay in market acceptance of our platform; require us to issue refunds to our customers or expose us to claims for damages; cause us to lose existing customers and make it more difficult to attract new customers; divert our development resources or require us to make extensive changes to our platform, which would increase our expenses; increase our technical support costs; and harm our reputation and brand. The contractual protections, such as warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions, in our customer agreements may not fully or effectively protect us from claims by customers or other third parties. Any insurance coverage we may have may not adequately cover all claims asserted against us or may only cover a portion of such claims. A successful product liability, warranty, or other similar claim against us could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert managements time and other resources. The experience of our customers and their users depends upon the interoperability of our platform across devices, operating systems and third-party applications that we do not control, and if we are not able to maintain and expand our relationships with third parties in order to integrate our platform with their products, our business may be harmed. Our products have broad interoperability with a range of diverse devices, operating systems and supported third-party applications. Our platform is accessible from the web and from devices running Windows, Mac OS, iOS and Android. We depend on the accessibility of our platform across these and other third-party operating systems and applications that we do not control. For example, given the broad adoption of Salesforces products, it is important that we are able to integrate with its software. Several potential competitors have inherent advantages by being able to develop products and services internally that more tightly integrate with their own software platforms or those of their business partners. We may not be able to modify our platform or products to maintain their continued compatibility with that of third parties products and services that are constantly evolving. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to disrupt the ability of our platform and products to operate with their products or services, or they could exert strong business influence on our ability to, and the terms on which we, operate and provide access to our platform and products. Should any of these third parties modify their products or services in a manner that degrades the functionality of our platform or products, or that gives preferential treatment to their own or competitive products or services, whether to enhance their competitive position or for any other reason, the interoperability of our platform and products with these third-party products and services could decrease and our business could be harmed. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our base of users will be impaired and our business will be harmed. We believe that our brand identity and awareness have contributed to our success. We believe that the importance of our brand and market awareness of the benefits of our platform and products will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, thought leadership, our ability to provide a high-quality, reliable and cost-effective platform, the perceived value of our platform and products and our ability to provide quality customer success and support experience. Brand promotion activities require us to make substantial investments. The promotion of our brand, however, may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue, and any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building and maintaining our brand. 25 Table of Contents Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at a similar rate, if at all. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts, including those we have generated ourselves, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Not every organization covered by our market opportunity estimates will necessarily purchase subscriptions for our solutions or similar products or services at all, and some or many of those organizations may choose to continue using products or services offered by our competitors. It is impossible to build every product feature that every customer wants, and our competitors may develop and offer features that our platform does not provide. The variables used in the calculation of our market opportunity are subject to change over time, and there is no guarantee that any particular number or percentage of the organizations covered by our market opportunity estimates will generate any particular level of revenue for us, if any. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and growth forecasts, our business could fail to grow for a variety of reasons outside of our control, including competition in our industry, customer preferences or the other risks set forth in this Report and other documents we filed with the SEC from time to time. If any of these risks materialize, it could harm our business and prospects. If we were to lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our co-founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sharat Sharan, is critical to our overall management, as well as the continued development of our solutions, our culture, our strategic direction, our engineering and our operations. All of our executive officers are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any keyperson life insurance policies. The loss of any member of our senior management team could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could harm our business and culture and prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executives, software developers, sales personnel and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software for live engagement technologies, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals. At times, we have experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, and we may not be able to fill positions. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business could be harmed. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have, and some of these companies may offer greater compensation packages. Particularly, in the San Francisco Bay Area, job candidates and existing employees carefully consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, or if the mix of equity and cash compensation that we offer is unattractive, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Job candidates may also be threatened with legal action under agreements with their existing employers if we attempt to hire them, which could impact hiring and result in a diversion of our time and resources. Additionally, laws and regulations, such as restrictive immigration laws, may limit our ability to recruit internationally. We must also continue to retain and motivate existing employees through our compensation practices, company culture and career development opportunities. If we fail to attract new personnel or to retain our current personnel, our business would be harmed. In addition, many of our employees may be able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. Moreover, these proceeds could create disparities in wealth among our employees, which may harm our culture and relations among employees and our business. We may not successfully plan for future growth. The growth and expansion of our business experienced in 2020 and 2021 placed a continuous, significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Our information technology systems and our internal