Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before making a decision to invest in our securities. The occurrence of any of the events or developments described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and growth prospects. In such an event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those risks discussed at-length below. You should read these risks before you invest in our common stock. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely be materially and adversely affected. These risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to: our ability to sustain our recent revenue growth rate in the future, attract new customers and expand sales to existing customers; fluctuation in our performance, our history of net losses and expected increases in our expenses; competition and technological development in our markets and any decline in demand for our solutions or generally in our markets; our ability to expand our sales and marketing capabilities and otherwise manage our growth; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic; disruptions, interruptions, outages or other issues with our technology or our use of third-party services, data connectors and data centers; any cybersecurity-related attack, significant data breach or disruption of the information technology systems or networks on which we rely; our sales cycle, our international expansion and our timing of revenue recognition from our sales; interoperability with other devices, systems and applications; compliance with data privacy, import and export controls, customs, sanctions and other laws and regulations; intellectual property matters, including any infringements of third-party intellectual property rights by us or infringement of our intellectual property rights by third parties; and the market for, trading price of and other matters associated with our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We may not be able to sustain our recent revenue growth rate in the future. We have experienced significant revenue growth during 2020, with our revenue increasing by 76% for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our revenue increased by 8% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2018. Our recent revenue growth in 2020 has been significantly impacted by an increasing demand for our platform and products following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting precautionary measures. As the impact of COVID-19 lessens, there may be reduced demand for our platform, and our revenue growth rate may decline. If these new customers elect not to continue their subscription as the impact of COVID-19 lessens, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. 19 Table of Contents As a result of our limited operating history at our current scale, our ability to forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties. You should not rely on our recent revenue growth rate or the revenue growth rate of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our revenue growth rate could slow, or our revenue could decline for a number of reasons, including any reduction in demand for our platform, increased competition, higher market penetration, a contraction of our overall market, our inability to accurately forecast demand for our platform and plan for capacity constraints or our failure, for any reason, to capitalize on growth opportunities. If our revenue growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business and the trading price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations and financial condition may vary significantly in the future, and period-to-period comparisons may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly results of operations and financial condition may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. For example, our revenue and revenue growth rate may decline in future periods compared to 2020 as the impact of COVID-19 lessens. Further, because we generally invoice our customers at the beginning of the contractual terms of their subscriptions to our solutions, our financial condition reflects deferred revenue that we recognize ratably as revenue over the contractual term. If fewer new enrollments or renewals occur as the impact of COVID-19 lessens, our cash and deferred revenue as of future dates may decrease. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our securities. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations include: our ability to retain and expand customer usage; our ability to attract new customers; our ability to hire and retain employees, in particular those responsible for the selling or marketing of our platform and provide sales leadership in areas in which we are expanding our sales and marketing efforts; changes in the way we organize and compensate our sales teams; the timing of expenses and recognition of revenue; the length of sales cycles; the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure, as well as international expansion and entry into operating leases; timing and effectiveness of new sales and marketing initiatives; changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; the timing and success of new products, features and functionality by us or our competitors; interruptions or delays in our service, network outages, or actual or perceived privacy or security breaches; changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors; changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; one or more large indemnification payments to our customers or other third parties; the timing of expenses related to any future acquisitions; and general economic and market conditions. 20 Table of Contents Failure to attract new customers or retain, expand the usage of, and upsell our products to existing customers would harm our business and growth prospects. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue and cash flows from sales of subscriptions to our products. As such, our business depends upon our ability to attract new customers and to maintain and expand our relationships with our existing customers, including by expanding their usage and upselling additional solutions. Our business is largely subscription-based, and customers are not obligated to and may not renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire. As a result, customers may not renew their subscriptions at the same rate, increase their usage of our solutions or purchase subscriptions for additional solutions, if they renew at all. Renewals of subscriptions may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, such as dissatisfaction with our solutions or support, a customer no longer having a need for our solutions or the perception that competitive products provide better or less expensive options. In order to grow our business, we must continually add new customers and replace customers who choose not to continue to use our platform. Any decrease in user satisfaction with our solutions or support may result in negative online customer reviews and decreased word-of-mouth referrals, which would harm our brand and our ability to grow. In addition to striving to attract new customers to our platform, we seek to expand the usage of our solutions by our existing customers by increasing the number of departments, divisions and teams that use our solutions within each of our customers. If we fail to expand the usage of our solutions by existing customers or if customers fail to purchase other solutions from us, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. Competition in our markets is intense, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. We compete for customers with a number of different types of companies that offer a variety of products and services, including meeting tools, webinar software, virtual event software, video portal software, content management software, physical events, physical event software, marketing automation software, and digital marketing tools. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services they offer. Many of our current and potential competitors have larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Our solutions face competition from a number of web-based meeting, webinar, physical event and marketing software products offered by companies such as Zoom, LogMeIn, Intrado, Microsoft, Cisco, Google, Cvent and Amazon. Many of these products have significantly lower prices. Although most of these companies do not currently offer products with real-time engagement features that gather the types and extent of actionable data that we gather, many of these companies have significantly greater resources and may be able to introduce similar products in the future. Additionally, we operate in a market characterized by an increasing number of new and competitive entrants. Furthermore, this market has seen rapid expansion as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and this market expansion may attract additional entrants. As we introduce new solutions and services, and with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Many factors, including our pricing and marketing strategies, customer acquisition, and technology costs, as well as the pricing and marketing strategies of our competitors, can significantly affect our pricing strategies. Certain competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or free products or services that compete with our entire platform or certain aspects of our platform, and they may offer a broader range of products and services than we do. Even if such competing products do not include all of the features and functionality that our solutions provide, we could face pricing pressure to the extent that customers find such alternative products to be sufficient to meet their needs. Similarly, certain competitors or potential competitors may use marketing strategies that enable them to acquire customers at a lower cost than we can. Moreover, larger organizations, which are a primary focus of our direct sales efforts, may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, we may be required to provide larger organizations with pricing below our targets in the future. As a result, we could lose market share to our competitors or be forced to engage in price-cutting initiatives or other discounts to attract and retain customers, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 21 Table of Contents A decline in demand for our solutions or for live engagement technologies in general could harm our business. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenue and cash flows from sales of subscriptions to our solutions. As a result, widespread adoption and use of live engagement technologies, webinars and event software in general, and our platform in particular, are critical to our future growth and success. If this market fails to grow or grows more slowly than we currently anticipate, demand for our platform could be negatively affected. Demand for our platform is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these potential factors include: availability of products and services that compete, directly or indirectly, with ours; introduction of free or do-it-yourself products; awareness and adoption of the live engagement technologies category generally as a substitute for in-person events; ease of adoption and use; features and platform experience; reliability of our platform, including frequency of outages; performance and user support; our brand and reputation; security and privacy; our pricing and our competitors pricing; and new modes of live engagement that may be developed in the future. If we fail to successfully predict and address these factors, meet customer demands or achieve more widespread market adoption of our platform, our business would be harmed. We have a history of net losses, and we expect to increase our expenses in the future, which could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. We had net income of $20.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2020 and net losses of $17.5 million and $17.6 million in the year ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and we may incur net losses in the future. We intend to continue to expend significant funds to expand our direct sales force and marketing efforts to attract new customers and increase usage of our platform and products by our existing customers, to develop and enhance our platform and for general corporate purposes. To the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we may also incur increased losses because most of the costs associated with acquiring customers (other than sales commissions) are incurred up front, while the related subscription revenue is generally recognized ratably over the applicable subscription term. In addition, we may incur increased losses because most of the costs associated with acquiring customers, including sales commissions, require us to make cash outlays at the time we acquire a customer, and, similarly, the timing of our recognition of subscription revenue and sales commissions may not correspond with our cash position. Our subscriptions typically have terms of one year that automatically renew for successive one-year terms unless terminated. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses and any increase in our cost of sales, including as a result of a shift to a hybrid cloud. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the value of our business and common stock may significantly decrease. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict the size and growth rate of our market, customer demand for our platform, user adoption and renewal of subscriptions to our platform, and the entry or the success of competitive products and services. As a result, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in future periods. 22 Table of Contents The failure to effectively develop and expand our marketing and sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform. Our ability to increase our customer base, expand the usage of our existing customers and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to effectively expand and manage our sales and marketing operations and activities. We are substantially dependent on our direct sales force and on our marketing efforts in order to obtain new customers. We have recently expanded and are continuing to expand our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe that there is significant competition for experienced sales professionals with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we currently require or may require in the future. Our ability to achieve revenue growth will depend, in part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of qualified and experienced sales professionals. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new industries or geographies. Circumstances relating to the COVID-19 pandemic have altered the way we recruit, onboard, train and integrate our employees, and these processes may not be successful in expanding our sales and marketing capabilities. New hires may not become as productive as quickly as we expect, or at all, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets and segments where we do business. Our business will be harmed if our sales expansion efforts do not generate a significant increase in revenue. Our results of operations may be adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The global spread of the COVID-19 pandemic and related containment efforts have materially affected how we and our customers operate our respective businesses. Although in some ways the pandemic may have accelerated our growth, the longer-term effects on our business and the overall economy remain highly uncertain. For example, substantially all of our personnel are working from home. We have not conducted business in this manner previously, we do not know how long we may need to continue in this manner, and we may experience difficulty attracting and retaining personnel, reduced productivity of our employees, greater exposure to cybersecurity threats or other operational risks. Similarly, many of our customers, vendors and other third parties with which we conduct business are also working from home, working at reduced staffing levels and dealing with other challenges, such as supply chain disruptions and revised budgets, that are forcing them to conduct business in different ways. The extent to which these parties suffer inefficiencies or other risks from these different arrangements, and the extent to which these risks may impact us, is impossible to predict. In addition, as long as the pandemic continues, our employees may be exposed to health risks. Our efforts to re-open our offices safely may expose our employees, customers and other third parties to health risks and us to associated liability, and they will involve additional financial burdens. The COVID-19 pandemic may have long-term effects on the nature of the office environment and remote working. This may present operational and workplace culture challenges that may adversely affect our business. The duration of the pandemic, whether it may recur, and its other long-term economic impacts are highly uncertain. These uncertainties make it challenging to manage our growth, maintain business relationships, price our subscription and otherwise operate and plan for our business. For example, with a broad section of the population working from home and educational institutions teaching remotely, increased demand for internet access could cause general access issues, affect our and our customers business interactions or cause issues with access to data centers. Moreover, the economic impacts of COVID-19 have affected and may continue to affect customer and prospective customer spending on technology such as ours, particularly for businesses involving in-person interactions, such as hospitality, manufacturing and professional services businesses. These customers may experience reduced revenue and revised budgets, which may adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase subscriptions to our platform, the timing of subscriptions, customer retention, and the value or duration of subscriptions, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. It is also possible that, if the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic subside, our customers and their users will resume in-person marketing activities in a way that decreases usage of our platform. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our business and financial performance may be influenced by a number of factors, many of which we cannot control, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, future spikes of COVID-19 infections resulting in additional preventative measures, the severity of the economic decline attributable to the pandemic, the timing and nature of a potential economic recovery, the impact on our customers and our sales cycles, and our ability to generate new business leads. 23 Table of Contents Due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In addition, uncertainty regarding the impact of COVID-19 on our future operating results and financial condition may result in our taking cost-cutting measures, reducing the level of our capital investments and delaying or canceling the implementation of strategic initiatives, any of which may negatively impact our business and reputation. The global macroeconomic effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and related impacts on our customers business operations and their demand for our solutions may persist for an indefinite period, even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided. In addition, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may heighten many of the other risks we face, including those described in this Report. We rely heavily on third parties for parts of our computing, storage, processing, application integration and similar services. Any disruption of or interference with our use of these third-party services could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We have outsourced aspects of our infrastructure to third-party providers, and we currently use these providers to host and stream content and support our platform. For example, our content delivery networks and some of our integration services are provided by third parties, and we plan to continue our transition to a hybrid public/private cloud infrastructure in the future. Accordingly, we are vulnerable to service interruptions experienced by these providers, and we expect to experience interruptions, delays, or outages in service availability in the future due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human, hardware or software errors, hosting disruptions, and capacity constraints. We expect that transitioning to a more hybrid cloud infrastructure will require significant investment and have a continuing effect on our cost of revenue and may not be effective in improving our capacity or redundancy. Outages and capacity constraints could also arise from a number of causes such as technical failures, natural disasters, fraud, or security attacks. The level of service provided by these providers, or regular or prolonged interruptions in that service, could also affect the use of, and our customers satisfaction with, our solutions and could harm our business and reputation. In addition, third-party costs will increase as subscriptions and customer use of our platform grows, which could harm our business if we are unable to grow our revenue faster than the cost of using these services or the services of similar providers. Furthermore, our providers may change the terms of service and policies pursuant to which they provide services to us, and those actions may be unfavorable to our business operations. Our providers may also take actions beyond our control that could seriously harm our business, including discontinuing or limiting our access to one or more services, increasing pricing terms, terminating or seeking to terminate our contractual relationship altogether, or altering how we are able to process data in a way that is unfavorable or costly to us. For example, some businesses providing data connectors to our products may fail to properly integrate with our platform and third-party sales and marketing systems, stop servicing the data connectors or cease development and support, any of which may limit functionality of our products. In addition, some businesses that provide cloud services and data connectors are or may become our competitors and may take one or more of the foregoing actions in an effort to compete with our platform. Although we expect that we could obtain similar services from other third parties, if our arrangements with our current providers were terminated, we could experience interruptions on our platform and in our ability to make our content available to customers, as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging for alternative cloud infrastructure services. Any of these factors could cause network disruptions, or even network failure, reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, and cause our customers to decline to renew their subscriptions, any of which could harm our business. Interruptions, delays or outages in service from the data centers we use for our technology or infrastructure could impair the delivery and the functionality of our solutions, which may harm our business. Our growth, brand, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers depend in part on the ability of our customers to access our platform at any time and within an acceptable amount of time. We currently use data centers in Colorado and California. To facilitate additional growth in Europe, we plan to use a data center in the European Union, or the EU, but we do not expect it to be available until at least mid-2021, if ever. Our efforts to diversify our data centers, including internationally, may not be successful. While each of our two data centers provide fully redundant processing, we estimate that failover may require as much as 90 minutes to complete, during which time our platform may not be fully available to our customers in the event of catastrophic failure at one of our data centers. We do not control the operation of the data 24 Table of Contents centers we use, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, natural disasters, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events, any of which could disrupt our service. In the event of significant physical damage to one of these data centers, it may take a significant period of time to achieve full resumption of our platform, and our disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. In addition, our platform is proprietary, and we depend on the expertise and efforts of members of our operations and software development teams for its continued performance. Our ability to retain, attract, hire and train staff in these groups may prove to be a challenge for a variety of factors and could have an adverse impact on the platform. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new functionality, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our platform concurrently and denial-of-service attacks by malicious actors. In some instances, we may not be able to rectify these performance issues within an acceptable period of time. Our ability to attract and retain customers depends on our ability to provide our customers and their users with a highly reliable platform. If our platform is unavailable or if our customers and their users are unable to access our platform within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Additionally, if the data centers we use are unable to keep up with our increasing need for capacity, our customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our business. Any cybersecurity-related attack, significant data breach or disruption of the information technology systems or networks on which we rely could negatively affect our business. Our operations rely on information technology systems for the use, storage and transmission of sensitive and confidential information with respect to our customers, our customers users, third-party technology platforms and our employees. In addition, our solutions gather more information from our customers and their users than many competing products, which may make us an attractive target for a malicious cybersecurity-related attack, intrusion or disruption, or other breach of our systems. Any such event could lead to unauthorized access to, use of, disclosure of or the loss of sensitive and confidential information, disruption of our platform, and resulting regulatory enforcement actions, litigation, indemnity obligations and other possible liabilities, as well as negative publicity, any of which could damage our reputation, impair sales and harm our business. Cyberattacks and other malicious internet-based activity continue to increase, and cloud-based providers of products and services have been and are expected to continue to be targeted. In addition to traditional computer hackers, malicious code (such as viruses and worms), phishing, employee theft or misuse and denial-of-service attacks, sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors now engage in attacks (including advanced persistent threat intrusions). As we grow, we may face increased risk of any such attacks. Despite efforts to create security barriers to such threats, it is not feasible, as a practical matter, for us to entirely mitigate these risks. If our security measures are compromised as a result of third-party action, employee, customer, or user error, malfeasance, stolen or fraudulently obtained log-in credentials or otherwise, our reputation would be damaged, our data, information or intellectual property, or those of our customers, may be destroyed, stolen or otherwise compromised, our business may be harmed and we could incur significant liability. We may be unable in the future to anticipate or prevent techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or compromise of our systems because they change frequently and are generally not detected until after an incident has occurred. We may not be able to prevent vulnerabilities in our software or address vulnerabilities that we may become aware of in the future. Further, as we rely on third-party cloud infrastructure, we depend in part on third-party security measures to protect against unauthorized access, cyberattacks and the mishandling of data and information. Any cybersecurity event, including any vulnerability in our software, cyberattack, intrusion or disruption, could result in significant increases in costs, including costs for remediating the effects of such an event, lost revenue due to network downtime, a decrease in customer and user trust, increases in insurance premiums due to cybersecurity incidents, increased costs to address cybersecurity issues and attempts to prevent future incidents, and harm to our business and our reputation because of any such incident. In addition, such incidents and data breaches can give rise to penalties and fines under data protection and cybersecurity laws, rules and regulations, enforcement actions, contractual damages, class actions, customer audits and other liability. 25 Table of Contents Many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to provide notice of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data. Under some of these laws, such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, data breach is defined very broadly to include any accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorized disclosure of, or access to any personal data, regardless of the sensitivity of such data. In addition, certain platform information may be made available via unique links to publicly accessible webpages, which could be accessed by unauthorized individuals. While the information accessible via these pages is limited, it is possible that a regulator, customer or third party could view this negatively, in particular in light of the broad definition of personal data and data breach under certain laws. In addition, we have contractual obligations to notify our customers of any data breaches involving their personal data processed by us. Any limitation of liability provisions in our subscription agreements may not be enforceable or adequate or may not otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any claim related to a cybersecurity incident. Our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors or omissions may not continue to be available on acceptable terms or may not be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims. The insurer may deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, would harm our business. Further, security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively affect our ability to attract new customers, encourage consumers to restrict the sharing of their personal data with our customers or social media networks, cause existing customers to elect not to renew their subscriptions or subject us to lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could harm our business. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes, extend our platform or develop new features. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service introductions. Our ability to attract new customers and retain and expand the usage of existing customers depends on our ability to continue to enhance and improve our platform, to introduce new features and solutions and to interoperate across an increasing range of devices, operating systems and third-party applications. Our customers may require features and capabilities that our current platform does not have. We invest significantly in research and development, focusing on improving the quality and range of our product offerings. Our enhancements to our platform and our new product experiences, features or capabilities may not be compelling to our existing or potential customers and may not gain market acceptance. If our research and development investments do not accurately anticipate customer demand, or if we fail to develop our platform in a manner that satisfies customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner, we may fail to retain our existing customers or increase demand for our platform. The introduction of competing products and services or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our platform obsolete or adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience difficulties with software development, design or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new product experiences, features, or capabilities. New product experiences, features or capabilities may not be released according to schedule. Any delays could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue or market acceptance, or claims by customers brought against us, all of which could harm our business. If customers do not widely adopt our new product experiences, features and capabilities, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment. If we are unable to develop, license or acquire new features and capabilities to our platform on a timely and cost-effective basis, or if such enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business would be harmed. 26 Table of Contents Our sales cycle with enterprise customers can be long and unpredictable. A substantial portion of our business is with large enterprise customers. We define a customer as a unique organization, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, that has entered into an agreement for paid access to our platform. As of December 31, 2020, we had 302 customers contributing at least $100,000 in ARR, or $100k Customers, which are generally large organizations, representing 67% of our ARR. The timing of our sales with our enterprise customers and related revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and uncertainty of the sales cycle for these customers. We are often required to spend significant time and resources to educate and familiarize these potential customers with the value proposition of paying for our platform. The length of our sales cycle for these customers, from initial evaluation to payment for our platform, is often around three to six months or more and can vary substantially from customer to customer. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether and when a sale will be completed. An inability to increase our enterprise customer base could harm our business. We are continuing to expand our operations outside the United States, where we may be subject to increased business and economic risks that could harm our business. In the year ended December 31, 2020, we generated revenue from customers in more than 60 countries, with 24% of our revenue generated from customers outside of the United States. We expect to continue to expand our international operations. For example, we recently established a subsidiary in Japan to support our operations in the Asia-Pacific region. Our efforts to expand our current international operations, including entering new markets or countries, may not be effective. For example, we may not be able to expand further in some markets if we are not able to satisfy certain government- and industry-specific requirements. In addition, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally in the future may require considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems and commercial markets. Future international expansion will require investment of significant funds and other resources. Operating internationally subjects us to special risks, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees outside the United States and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our platform and operating our business across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our platform and features to ensure that they are culturally appropriate and relevant in different countries; determining the appropriate pricing strategy to enable us to compete effectively internationally, which may be different than the pricing strategies that have worked for us in the United States; compliance with applicable international laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data protection and marketing, and the risk of penalties to us and individual members of management or employees if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; management of an employee base in jurisdictions that may not give us the same employment and retention flexibility as does the United States; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations including the proper classification of independent contractors and other contingent workers, differing employer/employee relationships, and local employment laws; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as does the United States and the practical enforcement of such intellectual property rights outside of the United States; foreign government interference with our intellectual property that is developed outside of the United States, such as the risk that changes in foreign laws could restrict our ability to use our intellectual property outside of the jurisdiction in which we developed it; integration with partners outside of the United States; 27 Table of Contents compliance by us and our business partners with anti-corruption laws, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory limitations on our ability to provide our platform in certain international markets; foreign business restrictions, foreign exchange controls and similar laws that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the United States; political and economic instability; changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, including the imposition of new trade restrictions, trade protection measures, import or export requirements, trade embargoes and other trade barriers; generally longer payment cycles and greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the income and other tax laws of the United States or the international jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. Compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our global operations substantially increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions. We may be unable to keep current with changes in laws and regulations in each jurisdiction as they occur. Our policies and procedures designed to support compliance with these laws and regulations may not always result in our compliance or that of our employees, contractors, partners and agents. Any violations could result in enforcement actions, fines, civil and criminal penalties, damages, injunctions or reputational harm. If we are unable to comply with these laws and regulations or manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, we may need to relocate or cease operations in certain foreign jurisdictions. We recognize revenue from subscriptions to our platform over the terms of the subscriptions. Consequently, increases or decreases in new sales are generally not immediately reflected in our results of operations and may be difficult to discern. We recognize revenue from subscriptions to our platform over the terms of the subscriptions. As a result, a substantial portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any single quarter may have a small impact on the revenue that we recognize for that quarter. However, such a decline will negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales and potential changes in our pricing policies or rate of customer expansion or retention may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. In addition, a significant portion of our costs are recognized as they are incurred, while revenue is recognized over the term of the subscription. As a result, growth in the number of new customers could continue to result in our recognition of higher costs and lower revenue in the earlier periods of such growth. Finally, our subscription-based revenue model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers or from existing customers that increase their usage of our product offerings must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Our ability to sell subscriptions to our products could be harmed by real or perceived material defects or errors in our platform or by other matters that may interrupt the availability of our platform or cause performance issues. The software underlying our platform is inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when we first introduce new solutions or when we release new features or capabilities. We have from time to time found defects or errors in our platform, and we or our users may detect new defects or errors in our existing or future platform or solutions. Any real or perceived errors, failures, vulnerabilities, or bugs in our platform could result in negative publicity or lead to data security, access, retention or other performance issues, all of which could harm our business. We may incur substantial costs in correcting such defects or errors and such costs could harm our business. Moreover, the harm to our reputation and potential legal liability related to such defects or errors may be substantial and could harm our business. 28 Table of Contents Our platform also utilizes hardware that we purchase or lease and software and services that we procure from third parties. In some cases, this includes software we license from international companies that may in the future become subject to legal or regulatory limitations on their ability to provide software outside of their jurisdiction. Any defects in, or unavailability of, our third-party hardware, software or services that cause interruptions to the availability of our platform, loss of data or performance issues could, among other things: cause a reduction in our revenue or a delay in market acceptance of our platform; require us to issue refunds to our customers or expose us to claims for damages; cause us to lose existing customers and make it more difficult to attract new customers; divert our development resources or require us to make extensive changes to our platform, which would increase our expenses; increase our technical support costs; and harm our reputation and brand. The contractual protections, such as warranty disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions, in our customer agreements may not fully or effectively protect us from claims by customers or other third parties. Any insurance coverage we may have may not adequately cover all claims asserted against us or may only cover a portion of such claims. A successful product liability, warranty, or other similar claim against us could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, even claims that ultimately are unsuccessful could result in our expenditure of funds in litigation and divert managements time and other resources. The experience of our customers and their users depends upon the interoperability of our platform across devices, operating systems and third-party applications that we do not control, and if we are not able to maintain and expand our relationships with third parties in order to integrate our platform with their products, our business may be harmed. Our products have broad interoperability with a range of diverse devices, operating systems and third-party applications. Our platform is accessible from the web and from devices running Windows, Mac OS, iOS and Android. We depend on the accessibility of our platform across these and other third-party operating systems and applications that we do not control. For example, given the broad adoption of Salesforces products, it is important that we are able to integrate with its software. Several potential competitors have inherent advantages by being able to develop products and services internally that more tightly integrate with their own software platforms or those of their business partners. We may not be able to modify our platform or products to maintain their continued compatibility with that of third parties products and services that are constantly evolving. In addition, some of our competitors may be able to disrupt the ability of our platform and products to operate with their products or services, or they could exert strong business influence on our ability to, and the terms on which we, operate and provide access to our platform and products. Should any of these third parties modify their products or services in a manner that degrades the functionality of our platform or products, or that gives preferential treatment to their own or competitive products or services, whether to enhance their competitive position or for any other reason, the interoperability of our platform and products with these third-party products and services could decrease and our business could be harmed. Our business depends on a strong brand, and if we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our base of users will be impaired and our business will be harmed. We believe that our brand identity and awareness have contributed to our success. We believe that the importance of our brand and market awareness of the benefits of our platform and products will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on a number of factors, including the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, thought leadership, our ability to provide a high-quality, reliable and cost-effective platform, the perceived value of our platform and products and our ability to provide quality customer success and support experience. Brand promotion activities require us to make substantial investments. The promotion of our brand, however, may not generate customer awareness or increase revenue, and any increase in revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building and maintaining our brand. 29 Table of Contents Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at a similar rate, if at all. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts, including those we have generated ourselves, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Not every organization covered by our market opportunity estimates will necessarily purchase subscriptions for our solutions or similar products or services at all, and some or many of those organizations may choose to continue using products or services offered by our competitors. It is impossible to build every product feature that every customer wants, and our competitors may develop and offer features that our platform does not provide. The variables used in the calculation of our market opportunity are subject to change over time, and there is no guarantee that any particular number or percentage of the organizations covered by our market opportunity estimates will generate any particular level of revenue for us, if any. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and growth forecasts, our business could fail to grow for a variety of reasons outside of our control, including competition in our industry, customer preferences or the other risks set forth in this Report and other documents we filed with the SEC from time to time . If any of these risks materialize, it could harm our business and prospects. Our business may be significantly impacted by a change in the economy, including any resulting effect on business spending. Our business may be affected by changes in the economy generally, including any resulting effect on spending by our customers. While some of our customers may consider our platform to be a cost-saving purchase by, among other things, decreasing the need for large, in-person events, others may view a subscription to our platform as a discretionary purchase, and such customers may reduce their discretionary spending on our platform during an economic downturn. Particularly in light of COVID-19, some of our customers may experience reduced revenue and revised budgets, which may adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase subscriptions to our platform, the timing of subscriptions, and the value or duration of subscriptions, all of which could adversely affect our operating results. If an economic downturn were to occur, we may experience such a reduction in demand and loss of customers, especially in the event of a prolonged recessionary period. If we were to lose the services of our Chief Executive Officer or other members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our success depends in a large part upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team. In particular, our co-founder, President and Chief Executive Officer, Sharat Sharan, is critical to our overall management, as well as the continued development of our solutions, our culture, our strategic direction, our engineering and our operations. All of our executive officers are at - will employees, and we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of any member of our senior management team could harm our business. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could harm our business and culture and prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executives, software developers, sales personnel and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing and managing software for live engagement technologies, as well as for skilled sales and operations professionals. At times, we have experienced, and we may continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications, and we may not be able to fill positions. Circumstances relating to COVID-19 may create increased demand for personnel with experience in live engagement technology, which may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified personnel. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business could be harmed. 30 Table of Contents Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have, and some of these companies may offer greater compensation packages. Particularly, in the San Francisco Bay Area, job candidates and existing employees carefully consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, or if the mix of equity and cash compensation that we offer is unattractive, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Job candidates may also be threatened with legal action under agreements with their existing employers if we attempt to hire them, which could impact hiring and result in a diversion of our time and resources. Additionally, laws and regulations, such as restrictive immigration laws, may limit our ability to recruit internationally. We must also continue to retain and motivate existing employees through our compensation practices, company culture and career development opportunities. If we fail to attract new personnel or to retain our current personnel, our business would be harmed. In addition, many of our employees may be able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. Moreover, these proceeds could create disparities in wealth among our employees, which may harm our culture and relations among employees and our business. We may not successfully manage our growth or plan for future growth. We experienced rapid growth in 2020. The growth and expansion of our business places a continuous, significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Our information technology systems and our internal