Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, which are included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (2015 Form 10-K), filed with the Commission on February 24, 2016, and our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended April 1, 2016, included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk, uncertainties, and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed below or elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2015 Form 10-K. Company Highlights for the Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 Total revenues of approximately $817.2 million Gross margin of approximately 33.7% Net income of $0.09 per diluted share Ended the quarter with cash and cash equivalents of approximately $619.5 million Executive Overview This Executive Overview presents summary information regarding our industry, markets, business and operating trends only. For further information regarding the events summarized herein, see Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in its entirety. Industry Overview We participate in unit and revenue surveys and use data summarized by the WSTS group to evaluate overall semiconductor market trends and to track our progress against the market in the areas we provide semiconductor components. The most recently published estimates from WSTS project a compound annual growth rate in our serviceable addressable market of approximately 3.9% during 2016 through 2018. These are not our projections and may not be indicative of actual results. We, like many of our competitors, view this information as helpful third party projections and estimates. 34 Table of Contents Business Overview ON Semiconductor Corporation and its subsidiaries (we, us, our, ON Semiconductor, or the Company) is driving innovation in energy efficient electronics. Our extensive portfolio of analog, digital and mixed signal ICs, standard products, image sensors and custom devices helps customers efficiently solve their design challenges in advanced electronic systems and products. Our power management and motor driver semiconductor components control, convert, protect and monitor the supply of power to the different elements within a wide variety of electronic devices. Our custom ASICs use analog, DSP, mixed-signal and advanced logic capabilities to act as the brain behind many of our automotive, medical, military/aerospace, consumer and industrial customers products. Our signal management semiconductor components provide high-performance clock management and data flow management for precision computing, communications and industrial systems. Our image sensors, optical image stabilization and auto focus devices provide advanced imaging solutions for automotive, wireless, industrial and consumer applications. Our standard semiconductor components serve as building blocks within virtually all types of electronic devices. These various products fall into the logic, analog, discrete, image sensor and memory categories used by the WSTS group. We serve a broad base of end-user markets, including automotive, communications, computing, consumer electronics, medical, industrial electronics, networking and aerospace/defense. Our devices are found in a wide variety of end-products including automotive electronics, smartphones, media tablets, wearable electronics, personal computers, servers, industrial building and home automation systems, consumer white goods, advanced imaging systems, LED lighting, power supplies, networking and telecom equipment, medical diagnostics, imaging and hearing health, sensor networks and the IoT. Our portfolio of devices enables us to offer advanced ICs and the building block components that deliver system level functionality and design solutions. Our extensive product portfolio consisted of approximately 50,000 products as of April 1, 2016 and we shipped approximately 12.6 billion units in the first quarter of 2016, as compared to 12.0 billion units in the first quarter of 2015. We offer micro packages, which provide increased performance characteristics while reducing the critical board space inside todays ever shrinking electronic devices and power modules, delivering improved energy efficiency and reliability for a wide variety of high power applications. We believe that our ability to offer a broad range of products, combined with our global manufacturing and logistics network, provides our customers with single source purchasing on a cost-effective and timely basis. Segments As of April 1, 2016, we were organized into four operating segments, which also represented our four reporting segments: Application Products Group, Standard Products Group, Image Sensor Group and System Solutions Group. Each of our major product lines has been assigned to a segment based on our operating strategy. As many products are sold into different end-markets, the total revenue reported for a segment is not indicative of actual sales in the end-market associated with that segment, but rather is the sum of the revenues from the product lines assigned to that segment. From time to time, we reassess the alignment of our product families and devices associated with our reportable segments and may move product families or individual devices from one reportable segment to another. Business and Macroeconomic Environment We have recognized efficiencies from implemented restructuring activities and programs and continue to implement profitability enhancement programs to improve our cost structure. However, the semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical, has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions, and may experience significant uncertainty and volatility in the future. We have historically reviewed, and will continue to review, our cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures to align our spending and capacity with our current sales and manufacturing projections. We have historically taken significant actions to align our overall cost structure with our expected revenue levels. We began additional restructuring activities during 2015 that are expected to continue through the second half of 2016. See Results of Operations under the heading Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net below for further details relating to our most recent cost saving actions. 35 Table of Contents Pending Acquisition of Fairchild On November 18, 2015, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Fairchild Agreement) with each of Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Fairchild), and Falcon Operations Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and the Companys wholly-owned subsidiary, which provides for a proposed acquisition of Fairchild by the Company (the Fairchild Transaction). Subsequent to April 1, 2016, on April 15, 2016, we entered into two new financing arrangements to secure capital for the purchase consideration of Fairchild among certain other items. See Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. Outlook ON Semiconductor Second Quarter 2016 Outlook Based upon product booking trends, backlog levels, and estimated turns levels, we estimate that our revenues will be approximately $835 to $875 million in the second quarter of 2016. Backlog levels for the second quarter of 2016 represent approximately 80% to 85% of our anticipated second quarter 2016 revenues. For the second quarter of 2016, we estimate that gross margin as a percentage of revenues will be approximately 33.3% to 35.3%. Our outlook does not include any contributions from the acquisition of Fairchild. Results of Operations Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 Compared to the Quarter Ended April 3, 2015 The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015 (in millions): Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 April 3, 2015 Dollar Change Revenues $ 817.2 $ 870.8 $ (53.6) Cost of revenues (exclusive of amortization shown below) 541.7 570.4 (28.7) Gross profit 275.5 300.4 (24.9) Operating expenses: Research and development 98.0 100.4 (2.4) Selling and marketing 49.2 53.3 (4.1) General and administrative 44.5 46.7 (2.2) Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 23.7 33.9 (10.2) Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net 1.7 (2.3) 4.0 Total operating expenses 217.1 232.0 (14.9) Operating income 58.4 68.4 (10.0) Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense (15.6) (9.2) (6.4) Interest income 0.3 0.3 Other (1.4) 3.7 (5.1) Other (expense) income, net (16.7) (5.2) (11.5) Income before income taxes 41.7 63.2 (21.5) Income tax provision (5.3) (7.4) 2.1 Net income 36.4 55.8 (19.4) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (0.4) (0.7) 0.3 Net income attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ 36.0 $ 55.1 $ (19.1) 36 Table of Contents Revenues Revenues were $817.2 million and $870.8 million for the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively, representing a decrease of approximately 6%. The decrease in revenues for the quarter ended April 1, 2016 compared to the quarter ended April 3, 2015 is primarily attributed to decreases in revenue in our Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group resulting from a weakened demand environment and a decline in average selling prices of approximately 7%. Revenues by reportable segment for the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015 were as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Quarter Ended April 3, 2015 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Application Products Group $ 250.5 30.7% $ 264.3 30.4% Image Sensor Group 168.2 20.6% 170.5 19.6% Standard Products Group 284.9 34.9% 303.2 34.8% System Solutions Group 113.6 13.9% 132.8 15.3% Total revenues $ 817.2 $ 870.8 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Revenues from the Application Products Group decreased by $13.8 million, or approximately 5%, for the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. This decrease is primarily attributable to a $6.3 million, or approximately 4%, decrease in revenues from our ASIC products and a $5.0 million, or approximately 5%, decrease in revenues from our analog products. Revenues from the Image Sensor Group decreased by $2.3 million, or approximately 1%, for the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. This decrease is primarily attributable to a $1.6 million, or approximately 1%, decrease in revenues from our CMOS image sensor products. Revenues from the Standard Products Group decreased by $18.3 million, or approximately 6%, for the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. This decrease is primarily attributable to a $6.0 million, or approximately 7%, decrease in revenues from our analog products, a $5.5 million, or approximately 4%, decrease in revenues from our discrete products, and a $3.3 million, or approximately 6%, decrease in revenues from our TMOS products. Revenues from the System Solutions Group decreased by $19.2 million, or approximately 14%, for the first quarter of 2016 compared to the first quarter of 2015. This decrease is primarily attributable to an $11.8 million, or approximately 14%, decrease in revenues from our LSI products and an $8.8 million, or approximately 31%, decrease in revenues from our IPM products. Revenues by geographic location, including local sales made by operations within each area, based on sales billed from the respective country for the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, are summarized as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Quarter Ended April 3, 2015 As a % of Total Revenue (1) United States $ 140.8 17.2% $ 131.8 15.1% Japan 84.4 10.3% 62.6 7.2% Hong Kong 178.0 21.8% 191.2 22.0% Singapore 246.4 30.2% 316.3 36.3% United Kingdom 134.1 16.4% 129.7 14.9% Other 33.5 4.1% 39.2 4.5% Total $ 817.2 $ 870.8 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. 37 Table of Contents A majority of our end customers, served directly or through distribution channels, are manufacturers of electronic devices. For the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, we had no single customer that accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues. Gross Profit and Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets described below) Our gross profit by reportable segment for the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015 was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 As a % of Segment Revenue (1) Quarter Ended April 3, 2015 As a % of Segment Revenue (1) Application Products Group $ 103.8 41.4 % $ 117.3 44.4 % Image Sensor Group 61.1 36.3 % 49.5 29.0 % Standard Products Group 99.6 35.0 % 112.1 37.0 % System Solutions Group 18.2 16.0 % 25.2 19.0 % Gross profit by segment $ 282.7 $ 304.1 Unallocated manufacturing costs (2) (7.2) (0.9) % (3.7) (0.4) % Total gross profit $ 275.5 33.7 % $ 300.4 34.5 % (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. (2) During the third quarter of 2015, the Company began allocating certain manufacturing costs to its segments that were previously included as unallocated manufacturing costs. Comparative information has been recast to conform with the current period presentation. Unallocated manufacturing costs are shown as a percentage of total revenue. Our gross profit was $275.5 million in the first quarter of 2016 compared to $300.4 million in the first quarter of 2015. The gross profit decrease of $24.9 million, or approximately 8%, during the first quarter of 2016 is primarily due to decreases in revenue in our Application Products Group, Standard Products Group and System Solutions Group resulting from a weakened demand environment and lower average selling prices, partially offset by increased gross profit in our Image Sensor Group. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues decreased to approximately 33.7% in the first quarter of 2016 from approximately 34.5% in the first quarter of 2015. This decrease was primarily driven by changes in volume and mix across certain product lines. Operating Expenses Research and development expenses were $98.0 million for the first quarter of 2016, compared to $100.4 million for the first quarter of 2015, representing a decrease of $2.4 million, or approximately 2%. This decrease is primarily associated with lower payroll expenses, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs. Selling and marketing expenses were $49.2 million for the first quarter of 2016, compared to $53.3 million for the first quarter of 2015, representing a decrease of $4.1 million, or approximately 8%. This decrease is primarily associated with lower payroll expenses, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs as well as external commissions. General and administrative expenses were $44.5 million for the first quarter of 2016, compared to $46.7 million in the first quarter of 2015, representing a decrease of $2.2 million, or approximately 5%. This decrease is primarily associated with lower payroll expenses, including incentive compensation and payroll related costs, offset by $2.5 million of acquisition related expenses incurred during the first quarter of 2016. 38 Table of Contents Other Operating Expenses Amortization of AcquisitionRelated Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $23.7 million and $33.9 million for the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively. The decrease in amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets is attributable to declining amortization of our Aptina and Truesense intangible assets. See Note 4: Goodwill and Intangible Assets of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information with respect to intangible assets. Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net resulted in expense of $1.7 million for the quarter ended April 1, 2016 compared to a benefit of $2.3 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2015. The information below summarizes certain activities for each respective quarter. See Note 5: Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 During the quarter ended April 1, 2016, we recorded approximately $1.7 million of charges related to our restructuring programs, consisting primarily of employee separation charges from our workforce reduction and manufacturing relocation programs. Quarter Ended April 3, 2015 During the quarter ended April 3, 2015, we recorded approximately $1.5 million of charges related to our restructuring programs, offset by a $3.4 million gain from the sale of assets and the change in foreign currency for our KSS facility. Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $6.4 million to $15.6 million during the quarter ended April 1, 2016 compared to $9.2 million during the quarter ended April 3, 2015. Our average gross long-term debt balance (including current maturities) during the quarter ended April 1, 2016 was $1,495.5 million at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 4.2%, compared to $1,191.6 million at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 3.1% during the quarter ended April 3, 2015. Other Other income and expense decreased by $5.1 million to an expense of $1.4 million for the quarter ended April 1, 2016 compared to income of $3.7 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2015, primarily attributable to fluctuations in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar for the periods presented, net of the impact from our hedging activity and a gain on available-for-sale securities recognized during the quarter ended April 3, 2015. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded an income tax provision of $5.3 million and an income tax provision of $7.4 million during the quarters ended April 1, 2016 and April 3, 2015, respectively. The income tax provision for the quarter ended April 1, 2016 consisted primarily of $6.0 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations and $0.3 million of new reserves and interest on existing reserves for uncertain prior year tax positions, partially offset by the reversal of $1.0 million for reserves and interest for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions which were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during the quarter ended April 1, 2016. The income tax provision for the quarter ended April 3, 2015 consisted of $6.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations and $1.1 million of new reserves and interest on existing reserves for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions, partially offset by the reversal of $0.1 million of reserves and interest for uncertain tax positions in foreign taxing jurisdictions which were effectively settled or for which the statute lapsed during the quarter ended April 3, 2015. 39 Table of Contents Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be adversely impacted by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries that have lower tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in countries that have higher tax rates. Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended April 1, 2016 was 12.7%, which differs from the U.S. statutory federal income tax rate of 35% principally due to our domestic tax losses and tax rate differential in our foreign subsidiaries. We continue to maintain a full valuation allowance on all of our domestic and substantially all of our Japan related deferred tax assets; however, it is reasonably possible that a substantial portion of the valuation allowance will be reversed within one year of April 1, 2016, which is not expected to have a material effect on our cash taxes. As of December 31, 2015, the valuation allowance on our domestic deferred tax assets was approximately $330.4 million. Our pending acquisition of Fairchild could cause us to reassess our indefinite reinvestment determination and valuation allowance at a future point in time when management believes all closing conditions associated with such acquisition have been obtained. If such a reassessment by us was to occur, and if we make a change with respect to our indefinite reinvestment determination or valuation allowance, such a change in judgment could impact our effective tax rate in the period in which such change in judgment occurs. Any such change in judgment in our indefinite reinvestment assertion could negatively impact our effective tax rate, to the extent that the liability exceeds our tax attribute carryforwards. At this time, it is not possible to ascertain whether the potential consummation of the pending Fairchild Transaction would be certain to result in a change in judgment with respect to our indefinite reinvestment determination or valuation allowance and, assuming such a change in judgment occurred, what impact such a change might have on our effective tax rate in the relevant current period or in any future periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, off-balance sheet arrangements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital, and long-term assets and liabilities. Contractual Obligations As of April 1, 2016, there were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business to the contractual obligations table, including notes thereto, contained in our 2015 Form 10-K which is exclusive of debt obligations, interest expense and fees associated with the debt we expected to incur in connection with the closing of the Fairchild Transaction. For information on long-term debt, see Note 7: Long-Term Debt, for operating leases and financing activities (including certain information with respect to our senior revolving credit facility) see Note 10: Commitments and Contingencies and for pension plan information see Note 6: Balance Sheet Information of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. See Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of debt we have incurred and expect to incur in connection with the closing of the Fairchild Transaction. Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $619.5 million as of April 1, 2016. We believe that our cash flows from operations, coupled with our existing cash and cash equivalents, will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months, exclusive of capital requirements associated with the Fairchild Transaction. Total cash and cash equivalents as of April 1, 2016 include approximately $153.4 million available within the United States. In addition to cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments already on hand in the United States, we have the ability to obtain cash in the United States by settling loans with our foreign subsidiaries in order to cover our domestic needs, by utilizing existing credit facilities, or through new bank loans or debt obligations. We hold a significant amount of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries is not readily available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, the repurchase of common stock, debt repurchases, payments and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our United States cash requirements through operations, borrowings under our current debt agreements or other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 40 Table of Contents See Note 7: Long-Term Debt, of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for information with respect to our long-term debt. See Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of debt we have incurred and expect to incur in connection with the closing of the Fairchild Transaction. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the normal course of business, we enter into various operating leases for buildings and equipment, including our mainframe computer system, desktop computers, communications, foundry equipment and service agreements relating to this equipment. In the normal course of business, we provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties initiated by either our subsidiaries or us, as required for transactions including, but not limited to: material purchase commitments; agreements to mitigate collection risk; leases; utilities; or customs guarantees. As of April 1, 2016, our senior revolving credit facility included a $15.0 million availability for the issuance of letters of credit. A $0.2 million letter of credit was outstanding under our senior revolving credit facility as of April 1, 2016. We also had outstanding guarantees and letters of credit outside of our senior revolving credit facility of $5.0 million as of April 1, 2016. As part of securing financing in the normal course of business, we issued guarantees related to certain of our capital lease obligations, equipment financing, lines of credit and real estate mortgages, which totaled $156.7 million as of April 1, 2016. We are also a guarantor of SCI LLCs non-collateralized loan with SMBC, which had a balance of $179.3 million as of April 1, 2016. See Note 7: Long-Term Debt and Note 10: Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe that we will not be required to make payments under the standby letters of credit or guarantee arrangements for the foreseeable future. For our operating leases, we expect to make cash payments and similarly incur expenses totaling $91.5 million as payments come due. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these operating leases, letters of credit and guarantee arrangements. See Note 10: Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements found elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. Contingencies We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other party against losses due to IP infringement, property damage including environmental contamination, personal injury, failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct, or breach of representations and warranties and covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets. We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in economic damage, bodily injury or property damage. In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable rights to such customer for valid defective product claims. 41 Table of Contents We and our subsidiaries provide for indemnification of directors, officers and other persons in accordance with limited liability agreements, certificates of incorporation, by-laws, articles of association or similar organizational documents, as the case may be. We maintain directors and officers insurance, which should enable us to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. On February 19, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a form of indemnification agreement (the Indemnification Agreement) and authorized us to enter into an indemnification agreement in substantially the form of the Indemnification Agreement with each of our directors and executive officers (each, an Indemnitee). The Indemnification Agreement clarifies and supplements the indemnification rights and obligations of the Indemnitee and us already included in our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws. Under the terms of the Indemnification Agreement, subject to certain exceptions specified in the Indemnification Agreement, we will indemnify the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law in the event the Indemnitee becomes subject to or a participant in certain claims or proceedings as a result of the Indemnitees service as a director or officer. We will also, subject to certain exceptions and repayment conditions, advance to the Indemnitee specified indemnifiable expenses incurred in connection with such claims or proceedings. While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations, and under such agreements it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 10: Commitments and Contingencies of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements under the heading Legal Matters in this Form 10-Q for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also Part I, Item 1 Business - Government Regulation of our 2015 Form 10-K for information on certain environmental matters. Sources and Uses of Cash We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for research and development, capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments, the repurchase of our stock and other Company securities, debt service, including principal and interest, and capital lease payments. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. In the near term, we expect to fund our primary cash requirements, excluding requirements related to the Fairchild Transaction, through cash generated from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand and short-term investments. We also have the ability to utilize our senior revolving credit facility. As part of our business strategy, we review acquisition and divestiture opportunities and proposals on a regular basis. See Note 3: Acquisitions of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information on recent acquisitions and Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events for a discussion of the Fairchild Transaction. We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include: Factors that affect our results of operations and cash flows, including the impact on our business and operations as a result of changes in demand for our products, competitive pricing pressures, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business; and Factors that affect our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. 42 Table of Contents Our ability to service our long-term debt, including our 1.00% Notes and 2.625% Notes, Series B, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to our future operating performance, as well as to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some of which may be beyond our control. If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to borrow additional funds or raise additional equity to achieve our longer term objectives. There can be no assurance that such borrowings or equity will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. We believe that cash flow from operating activities coupled with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and existing credit facilities will be adequate to fund our operating and capital needs as well as enable us to maintain compliance with our various debt agreements through at least the next twelve months, including debt maturing in 2016. To the extent that results or events differ from our financial projections or business plans, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures for inventory, operating expenditures and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. Our capital expenditures are primarily directed toward production equipment and capacity expansion. Our capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. For example, during the quarter ended April 1, 2016, we paid $72.9 million for capital expenditures, while during the quarter ended April 3, 2015, we paid $64.8 million for capital expenditures. Our current minimum capital expenditure contractual commitment for the remainder of 2016 is approximately $40.8 million. Our current minimum contractual capital expenditure commitment for 2017 and thereafter is approximately $5.0 million. Our capital expenditures have historically been approximately 6% to 7% of annual revenues, and we expect to continue to incur capital expenditures to support our business activities. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by events and transactions that are not currently forecasted. Subsequent to April 1, 2016, on April 15, 2016, we entered into two new financing arrangements to secure funds for the purchase consideration of Fairchild among certain other items, that includes a $2.2 billion term loan B facility, with the proceeds deposited into escrow accounts pending the closing of the acquisition. The associated commitment fees are expected to have a material impact to our interest expense prior to closing the Fairchild Transaction. See Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. 43 Table of Contents Primary Cash Flow Sources Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operations is summarized as follows (in millions): Quarter Ended April 1, 2016 April 3, 2015 Summarized cash flow from operating activities Net income $ 36.4 $ 55.8 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 80.7 90.2 Write-down of excess inventories 17.9 17.7 Non-cash share-based compensation expense 11.6 11.3 Change in deferred taxes 1.1 (0.4) Other adjustments 8.9 (4.9) Changes in assets and liabilities (exclusive of the impact of acquisitions): Receivables 0.5 (36.9) Inventories (27.0) (34.7) Other assets (2.0) 3.9 Deferred income on sales to distributors 0.9 (9.1) Other changes in assets and liabilities (14.1) (9.4) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 114.9 $ 83.5 Our cash flows provided by operating activities for the quarter ended April 1, 2016 increased by $31.4 million compared to the quarter ended April 3, 2015. The increase is primarily attributable to the change in working capital during the period. Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. Our management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows and each of these components is discussed below. Working Capital Working capital, calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. In times of escalating demand, our working capital requirements may be affected as we purchase additional manufacturing materials and increase production. Our working capital may also be affected by restructuring programs, which may require us to use cash for severance payments, asset transfers and contract termination costs. In addition, our working capital may be affected by acquisitions, capital activities as part of our share repurchase program and transactions involving our convertible notes and other debt instruments. Our working capital, excluding cash and cash equivalents, was $92.8 million at April 1, 2016 and has fluctuated between $33.9 million and $315.8 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Our working capital, including cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, was $712.3 million at April 1, 2016 and has fluctuated between $611.8 million and $892.3 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Although investments made to fund working capital will reduce our cash balances, these investments are necessary to support business and operating initiatives. During the quarter ended April 1, 2016, our working capital was most significantly impacted by our capital expenditures and our repayment of long-term debt including capital leases. See Note 7: Long-Term Debt of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. 44 Table of Contents Working capital as of April 1, 2016 includes the prospective application from the adoption of ASU 2015-17. Periods prior to December 31, 2015 have not been adjusted for the adoption of ASU 2015-17. See Note 2: Recent Accounting Pronouncements of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. Long-Term Assets and Liabilities Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and goodwill. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We believe that near-term access to additional manufacturing capacity, should it be required, could be readily obtained on reasonable terms through manufacturing agreements with third parties. We will continue to look for opportunities to make future strategic purchases for additional capacity. Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans and contingent tax reserves. In regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, generally, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. Key Financing and Capital Events Overview For the past several years, we have undertaken measures to repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend existing key financing arrangements and, in some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. Set forth below is a summary of certain key financing events affecting our capital structure. For further information with respect to our debt instruments, see Note 7: Long-Term Debt of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Fairchild Transaction Financing Subsequent to April 1, 2016, on April 15, 2016, we entered into (i) a $600 million senior revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) and (ii) a $2.2 billion term loan B facility (the Term Loan B Facility), the terms of which are set forth in a Credit Agreement (the New Credit Agreement), dated as of April 15, 2016. Subject to the terms and conditions of the New Credit Agreement, on April 15, 2016, we borrowed an aggregate of $2.2 billion under the Term Loan B Facility (the Gross Proceeds). On April 15, 2016, the Gross Proceeds were deposited into escrow accounts pursuant to the terms of an escrow agreement and, upon release from escrow, in accordance with the terms of the escrow agreement, will be available primarily to pay, directly or indirectly, the purchase price of the Fairchild Transaction pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, among certain other items subject to the terms and conditions of the New Credit Agreement. The associated commitment fees are expected to have a material impact to our interest expense prior to closing the Fairchild Transaction. See Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. 45 Table of Contents Cash Management Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms for new products. Debt Guarantees and Related Covenants Our 1.00% Notes are senior to the existing and future subordinated indebtedness of ON Semiconductor Corporation and its guarantor subsidiaries. Our 2.625% Notes, Series B are subordinated to the senior indebtedness of ON Semiconductor Corporation and its guarantor subsidiaries. As of April 1, 2016, we believe that we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our 1.00% Notes and our 2.625% Notes, Series B and with covenants relating to our senior revolving credit facility and various other debt agreements. See Note 16: Recent Developments and Subsequent Events for a description of our Fairchild Transaction financing. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 2: Recent Accounting Pronouncements of the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.