Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our audited historical consolidated financial statements, which are included in the 2019 Form 10-K and our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended April 3, 2020 included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed below or elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. See Part II, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of this Form 10-Q and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors" of the 2019 Form 10-K. Company Highlights for the Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 Total revenue of $1,277.9 million Gross margin of 31.5% Net loss of $0.03 per basic and diluted share Cash and cash equivalents of $1,982.0 million Executive Overview ON Semiconductor Overview ON Semiconductor is driving innovation in energy-efficient electronics. Our extensive portfolio of sensors, power management, connectivity, custom and SoC, analog, logic, timing and discrete devices helps customers efficiently solve their design challenges in advanced electronic systems and products. Our power management and motor driver semiconductor components control, convert, protect and monitor the supply of power to the different elements within a wide variety of electronic devices. Our custom ASICs and SoC devices use analog, MCU, DSP, mixed-signal and advanced logic capabilities to enable the application and uses of many of our automotive, medical, aerospace/defense, consumer and industrial customers products. Our signal management semiconductor components provide high-performance clock management and data flow management for precision computing, communications and industrial systems. Our growing portfolio of sensors, including image sensors, radar and LiDAR, provide advanced solutions for automotive, industrial and IoT applications. Our standard semiconductor components serve as building blocks within virtually all types of electronic devices. These various products fall into the logic, analog, discrete, image sensors, IoT, Wi-Fi and memory categories used by the WSTS group. We serve a broad base of end-user markets, including automotive, communications, computing, consumer, medical, industrial, networking, telecom and aerospace/defense. Our devices are found in a wide variety of end products, including life-saving medical devices, automobiles, smartphones, data center and enterprise servers, wearable medical devices, personal computers, industrial building and home automation systems, factory automation, consumer white goods, security and surveillance systems, machine vision and robotics, LED lighting, power supplies, networking and telecom equipment, medical diagnostics and imaging and hearing health. Our portfolio of devices enables us to offer advanced ICs and the "building block" components that deliver system level functionality and design solutions. We shipped approximately 15.4 billion units during the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to 16.3 billion units during the quarter ended March 29, 2019, resulting in a period-over-period decrease of approximately 6%. We offer micro packages, which provide increased performance characteristics while reducing the critical board space inside today's ever-shrinking electronic devices and power modules, delivering improved energy efficiency and reliability for a wide variety of medium and high power applications. We believe that our ability to offer a broad range of products, combined with our applications and global manufacturing and logistics network, provides our customers with single source purchasing on a cost-effective and timely basis. The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on our Business In light of the changing nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and uncertainty regarding the duration, severity, and possible resurgence of the pandemic in future periods, the long-term impact on our business is currently unclear. To date, we have experienced a decline in demand for certain of our products, supply chain and logistical constraints for procurement of certain materials and ability to work with our external partners and restricted access to our manufacturing facilities due to governmental regulations implemented to contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect these conditions to continue in varying duration and severity until such time as the COVID-19 pandemic is effectively contained. While we anticipate a rebound in economic activity depending on the rate, pace, and effectiveness of the containment efforts deployed by various national, state, and local governments, we are unable to predict the nature, timing and sustainability of an economic recovery, or to provide assurance that our business will return to historic performance levels on the timeline anticipated or at all. 26 Table of Contents In an effort to protect the health and safety of our employees, we have taken proactive, aggressive actions to adopt social distancing policies at our locations around the world, including reducing the number of people in our sites at any one time, instructing our employees to work from home where possible, limiting the number of employees attending meetings and suspending employee travel. In our role as responsible corporate citizens, we have taken actions to support our global communities by providing essential medical supplies and by donating N95 masks, ActiveAir masks, surgical masks, smocks, hand sanitizers, hairnets, nitrile gloves and medical protection suits to hospitals and health workers. We will continue to actively monitor implications of the COVID-19 pandemic on our and our customers businesses and may take further actions to alter our business operations if we determine that such alterations are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, suppliers, and stakeholders, or as required by federal, state, or local authorities. It is not clear what the potential effects of such alterations or modifications may have on our business for the remainder of the year ending December 31, 2020 or thereafter, including the effects on our customers, employees, and prospects, or on our financial results. The Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic to our Industry While the full extent of the COVID-19 pandemics impact on global supply chains and global growth remains to be seen, the semiconductor industry has already experienced significant challenges. In the near-term, companies in the semiconductor industry are beginning to focus on implementing contingency plans to manage disruptions in their businesses. In the long-term, companies in the semiconductor industry are likely to re-assess and consider modifying their supply chain strategy and operating models to mitigate single points of failure. Operating and Reportable Segments As many of our products are sold into different end-markets, the total revenue reported for a segment is not indicative of actual sales in the end-market associated with that segment, but rather is the sum of the revenue from the product lines assigned to that segment. From time to time, we reassess the alignment of our product families and devices to our operating segments and may move product families or individual devices from one operating segment to another. As of April 3, 2020, we were organized into the following three operating and reportable segments: PSG, ASG and ISG. Business and Macroeconomic Environment During the quarter ended April 3, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the resulting geopolitical and macroeconomic factors continued to adversely impact product demand in the semiconductor industry. As a result, we experienced a decline in demand for certain of our products, and we expect that demand for our products could continue to be adversely affected, possibly significantly, in the short-term. Among others, reductions in production levels, R&D activities, qualification activities with our customers and increased costs resulting from our efforts to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic through social-distancing measures we have enacted at certain of our locations around the world may negatively impact our operations. We also believe, however, that secular megatrends in the automotive, industrial, and cloud-power end-markets will continue to drive long-term growth in the semiconductor industry. In an effort to contain and slow the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, governments around the world have enacted various measures, including orders to close all businesses not deemed essential, quarantine residents in their homes or places of residence, and practice social distancing when engaging in essential activities. In response to market and industry trends, we have pursued, and expect to continue to pursue, cost-saving initiatives to align our overall cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our expected revenue, spending and capacity levels based on our current sales and manufacturing projections. We have historically taken and continue to take significant cost containment efforts, including, but not limited to, workforce reductions, reducing discretionary spending, furloughs, and mandatory vacations. There can be no assurances that we will adequately forecast the impact of adverse economic conditions on our business or that we will effectively align our cost structure, capital investments and other expenditures with our revenue, spending and capacity levels in the future. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations The COVID-19 pandemic impacted our business operations in several ways during the quarter ended April 3, 2020. Among others, we experienced the impact in the form of declining demand for some of our products, supply chain constraints in shipment and procurement of materials, logistical challenges in ability to work with our external partners and lower factory utilization due to governmental regulations implemented to slow and contain the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we have taken numerous steps to navigate through the challenges faced and mitigate its impact, we are currently unable to estimate the ultimate potential effects on our business, customers, employees, or our future financial results. Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 compared to the Quarter Ended March 29, 2019 The following table summarizes certain information relating to our operating results that has been derived from our unaudited consolidated financial statements (in millions): Quarters Ended April 3, 2020 March 29, 2019 Dollar Change Revenue $ 1,277.9 $ 1,386.6 $ (108.7) Cost of revenue (exclusive of amortization shown below) 875.2 872.9 2.3 Gross profit 402.7 513.7 (111.0) Operating expenses: Research and development 171.0 151.8 19.2 Selling and marketing 76.8 77.1 (0.3) General and administrative 71.2 72.9 (1.7) Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets 32.3 25.7 6.6 Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, net 32.8 5.6 27.2 Intangible asset impairment 1.2 (1.2) Total operating expenses 384.1 334.3 49.8 Operating income 18.6 179.4 (160.8) Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (42.5) (31.7) (10.8) Interest income 1.9 2.5 (0.6) Other income (loss) 0.1 2.1 (2.0) Other income (expense), net (40.5) (27.1) (13.4) Income (loss) before income taxes (21.9) 152.3 (174.2) Income tax (provision) benefit 8.2 (38.2) 46.4 Net income (loss) (13.7) 114.1 (127.8) Less: Net income attributable to non-controlling interest (0.3) (0.3) Net income (loss) attributable to ON Semiconductor Corporation $ (14.0) $ 114.1 $ (128.1) Revenue Revenue was $1,277.9 million and $1,386.6 million for the quarters ended April 3, 2020 and March 29, 2019, respectively, representing a decrease of $108.7 million, or approximately 8%. 28 Table of Contents Revenue by operating and reportable segments was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Quarter Ended March 29, 2019 As a % of Total Revenue (1) PSG $ 623.9 48.8 % $ 704.2 50.8 % ASG 467.1 36.6 % 494.1 35.6 % ISG 186.9 14.6 % 188.3 13.6 % Total revenue $ 1,277.9 $ 1,386.6 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Revenue from PSG decreased by $80.3 million, or approximately 11%, for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 compared to the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The revenue in our High Power Division, Power MOSFET Division, and Protection and Signal Division decreased by $28.6 million, $19.1 million, and $21.6 million, respectively. The reasons for the decrease are a combination of the impact of delays in fulfilling certain customer orders due to supply chain constraints and our factories in Malaysia and the Philippines operating at significantly reduced capacity levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and a general decline in demand for these products due to economic conditions. Revenue from ASG decreased by $27.0 million, or approximately 5%, for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 compared to the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The revenue from our Automotive Division, Industrial and Offline Power Division and our Mobile, Computing and Cloud Division decreased by $7.0 million, $21.6 million and $35.2 million, respectively. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in revenue of $37.0 million in our Wireless Connectivity Solutions Division, which included the acquired Quantenna business. The decrease in revenue in other divisions was primarily due to the impact of delays in fulfilling certain customer orders due to supply chain constraints and our factories in Malaysia and the Philippines operating at significantly reduced capacity levels as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue from ISG decreased by $1.4 million, or approximately 1%, for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 compared to the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The revenue from our Automotive Solutions Division decreased by $6.6 million due to decreased demand and also slightly impacted by delays in fulfilling certain customer orders due to supply chain constraints in Malaysia as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in revenue in other divisions. Revenue by geographic locations, based on sales billed from the respective country or regions, was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Quarter Ended March 29, 2019 As a % of Total Revenue (1) Singapore $ 408.3 32.0 % $ 425.2 30.7 % Hong Kong 316.2 24.7 % 338.0 24.4 % United Kingdom 227.0 17.8 % 246.9 17.8 % United States 184.5 14.4 % 213.6 15.4 % Other 141.9 11.1 % 162.9 11.7 % Total $ 1,277.9 $ 1,386.6 (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. 29 Table of Contents Gross Profit and Gross Margin (exclusive of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets) Our gross profit by operating and reportable segments was as follows (dollars in millions): Quarter Ended April 3, 2020 As a % of Segment Revenue (1) Quarter Ended March 29, 2019 As a % of Segment Revenue (1) PSG $ 178.6 28.6 % $ 249.0 35.4 % ASG 174.8 37.4 % 200.1 40.5 % ISG 62.8 33.6 % 74.9 39.8 % Gross profit for all segments $ 416.2 $ 524.0 Unallocated manufacturing costs (13.5) (1.1) % (10.3) (0.7) % Total gross profit $ 402.7 31.5 % $ 513.7 37.0 % (1) Certain amounts may not total due to rounding of individual amounts. Our gross profit decreased by $111.0 million, or approximately 22%, from $513.7 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2019 to $402.7 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue decreased to 31.5% for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 from 37.0% for the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The decrease in gross profit and gross margin were due to multiple reasons such as a significant decline in sales volume, a decline in average selling prices and under absorbed fixed overhead in some of our manufacturing locations due to lower utilization. Certain of our factories in China, Malaysia and the Philippines had to temporarily shut down or operate at a significantly reduced capacity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the quarter ended April 3, 2020, we recorded approximately $20.0 million of fixed overhead charges directly to cost of revenues, representing under absorbed inventory costs, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating Expenses The COVID-19 pandemic did not have a significant impact on our operating expenses. Research and development expenses were $171.0 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to $151.8 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2019, representing an increase of $19.2 million, or approximately 13%. This increase was primarily due to the addition of the Quantenna employees in the headcount resulting in higher payroll costs. Selling and marketing expenses were $76.8 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to $77.1 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2019, representing a decrease of $0.3 million, or approximately 0.4%. General and administrative expenses were $71.2 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to $72.9 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2019, representing a decrease of $1.7 million, or approximately 2%. Other Operating Expenses Amortization of Acquisition-Related Intangible Assets Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets was $32.3 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to $25.7 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The increase of $6.6 million, or approximately 26%, was primarily due to the amortization of our intangible assets acquired from Quantenna. Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net Restructuring, asset impairments and other, net was $32.8 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to $5.6 million for the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The increase of $27.2 million was primarily due to costs relating to the VSP implemented and closed during the first quarter of 2020. For additional information, see Note 4: ''Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other, Net'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. 30 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense increased by $10.8 million to $42.5 million during the quarter ended April 3, 2020, as compared to $31.7 million during the quarter ended March 29, 2019. The increase was due to the additional debt incurred for the acquisition of Quantenna and the Credit Facility Draw (as defined below) towards the end of the first quarter of 2020. Our average gross long-term debt balance (including current maturities) for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 was $4,303.3 million at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 3.9%, as compared to $2,935.0 million at a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 4.3% for the quarter ended March 29, 2019. Income Taxes Provision and Benefit We recorded an income tax benefit of $8.2 million and a provision of $38.2 million during the quarters ended April 3, 2020 and March 29, 2019, respectively. The income tax benefit for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 consisted primarily of a benefit of $8.4 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations partially offset by $0.2 million of discrete expenses. The income tax provision for the quarter ended March 29, 2019 consisted of $36.0 million for income and withholding taxes of certain of our foreign and domestic operations, $6.0 million related to the resolution of a foreign tax dispute, $0.9 million primarily relating to new interest and penalties on existing reserves for unrecognized tax benefits and $0.4 million of prior year adjustments, offset by a discrete benefit of $5.1 million relating to equity award excess tax benefits. In line with the OECDs BEPS conclusions and changes to tax laws in the United States and certain countries in the European Union, we are considering simplifying our corporate structure by repatriating the economic rights to our intellectual property to the United States during the second half of 2020. Upon repatriation, we expect to record a one-time discrete tax benefit in the range of $50.0 million to $100.0 million related to the impact of such repatriation. This one-time discrete benefit would not impact cash taxes. For additional information, see Note 12: ''Income Taxes'' in the notes to the unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. Liquidity and Capital Resources This section includes a discussion and analysis of our cash requirements, off-balance sheet arrangements, contingencies, sources and uses of cash, operations, working capital and long-term assets and liabilities. Contractual Obligations As of April 3, 2020, there were no material changes outside the ordinary course of business to the contractual obligations table, including the notes thereto, contained in the 2019 Form 10-K. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements In the ordinary course of business, we provide standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties in connection with certain transactions, including, but not limited to, material purchase commitments, agreements to mitigate collection risk, leases, utilities or customs guarantees. As of April 3, 2020, the Company's Revolving Credit Facility included $15.0 million of commitment subject to the available balance of the Revolving Credit Facility for the issuance of letters of credit, which, as of the date of this Form 10-Q was $4.0 million. There were $1.0 million letters of credit outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility as of April 3, 2020, which reduced the Company's borrowing capacity. As of April 3, 2020, we also had outstanding guarantees and letters of credit outside of our Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $11.5 million. As part of securing financing in the ordinary course of business, we have issued guarantees related to certain of our subsidiaries' term loan financing and surety bond, which totaled $1.6 million as of April 3, 2020. Based on historical experience and information currently available, we believe that we will not be required to make payments under the standby letters of credit or guarantee arrangements for the foreseeable future. We have not recorded any liability in connection with these letters of credit and guarantee arrangements. See Note 6: ''Long-Term Debt'' and Note 9: ''Commitments and Contingencies'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for additional information. 31 Table of Contents Contingencies We are a party to a variety of agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business pursuant to which we may be obligated to indemnify other parties for certain liabilities that arise out of or relate to the subject matter of the agreements. Some of the agreements entered into by us require us to indemnify the other party against losses due to IP infringement, environmental contamination and other property damage, personal injury, our failure to comply with applicable laws, our negligence or willful misconduct or our breach of representations, warranties or covenants related to such matters as title to sold assets. We face risk of exposure to warranty and product liability claims in the event that our products fail to perform as expected or such failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in economic damage, bodily injury or property damage. In addition, if any of our designed products are alleged to be defective, we may be required to participate in their recall. Depending on the significance of any particular customer and other relevant factors, we may agree to provide more favorable rights to such customer for valid defective product claims. We maintain directors and officers insurance policies that indemnify our directors and officers against various liabilities, including certain liabilities under the Exchange Act, that might be incurred by any director or officer in his or her capacity as such. The Fairchild Agreement provides for indemnification and insurance rights in favor of Fairchilds then current and former directors, officers and employees. Specifically, we have agreed that, for no fewer than six years following the Fairchild acquisition, we will: (a) indemnify and hold harmless each such indemnitee against losses and expenses (including advancement of attorneys fees and expenses) in connection with any proceeding asserted against the indemnified party in connection with such persons servings as a director, officer, employee or other fiduciary of Fairchild or its subsidiaries prior to the effective time of the acquisition; (b) maintain in effect all provisions of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Fairchild or any of its subsidiaries or any other agreements of Fairchild or any of its subsidiaries with any indemnified party regarding elimination of liability, indemnification of officers, directors and employees and advancement of expenses in existence on the date of the Fairchild Agreement for acts or omissions occurring prior to the effective time of the acquisition and; (c) subject to certain qualifications, provide to Fairchilds then current directors and officers an insurance and indemnification policy that provides coverage for events occurring prior to the effective time of the acquisition that is no less favorable than Fairchilds then-existing policy, or, if insurance coverage that is no less favorable is unavailable, the best available coverage. Similarly, the Quantenna Agreement provides for indemnification and insurance rights in favor of Quantennas then current and former directors, officers, employees and agents. Specifically, the Company has agreed that, for no fewer than six years following the Quantenna acquisition, the Company will: (a) indemnify and hold harmless each such indemnified party to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law in the event of any threatened or actual claim suit, action, proceeding or investigation against the indemnified party based in whole or in part on, or pertaining to, such persons serving as a director, officer, employee or agent of Quantenna or its subsidiaries or predecessors prior to the effective time of the acquisition or in connection with the Quantenna Agreement; (b) maintain in effect provisions of the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Quantenna and each of its subsidiaries regarding the elimination of liability of directors and indemnification of officers, directors and employees that are no less advantageous to the intended beneficiaries than the corresponding provisions in the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Quantenna and each of its subsidiaries in existence on the date of the Quantenna Agreement; and (c) obtain and fully pay the premium for a non-cancelable extension of directors and officers liability coverage of Quantennas directors and officers policies and Quantennas fiduciary liability insurance policies in effect as of the date of the Quantenna Agreement. While our future obligations under certain agreements may contain limitations on liability for indemnification, other agreements do not contain such limitations, and under such agreements, it is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments due to the conditional nature of our obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under any of these indemnities have not had a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and we do not believe that any amounts that we may be required to pay under these indemnities in the future will be material to our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See Note 9: ''Commitments and Contingencies'' in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements under the heading "Legal Matters" included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for possible contingencies related to legal matters. See also Part I, Item 1 "Business - Government Regulation" of the 2019 Form 10-K for information on certain environmental matters. 32 Table of Contents Sources and Uses of Cash Our balance of cash and cash equivalents was $1,982.0 million as of April 3, 2020. The significant increase in our cash and cash equivalents is due to the Credit Facility Draw. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, coupled with our cash flows from operations will be adequate to fund our operations, debt repayment and capital needs, as well as to enable us to maintain compliance with our various debt agreements, through at least the next 12 months. To the extent that results or events differ from our financial projections or business plans, our liquidity may be adversely impacted. Total cash and cash equivalents as of April 3, 2020 include approximately $1.4 billion available within the United States. We also have the ability to obtain additional cash in the United States to cover our domestic needs through distributions from our foreign subsidiaries, new bank loans or debt obligations. We require cash to fund our operating expenses and working capital requirements, including outlays for strategic acquisitions and investments, for debt service including principal and interest, for research and development, to make capital expenditures, and to repurchase our common stock. On March 24, 2020, we borrowed $1,165.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility as a precautionary measure in order to increase our cash position and provide financial flexibility in light of the current uncertainty resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic (the Credit Facility Draw). As a result of the Credit Facility Draw, as of March 24, 2020, we had borrowed substantially all amounts available under the Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds from the Credit Facility Draw could be used to repay portions of debt maturing in 2020, and for working capital, general corporate or other purposes. We expect interest expense to remain significant in future periods as we continue to service our debt including the recent Credit Facility Draw. As of the date of this Form 10-Q, we have $4.0 million available under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to certain conditions. Our principal sources of liquidity are the cash and cash equivalents on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. In the near term, we expect to fund our primary cash requirements through cash generated from operations and with cash and cash equivalents on hand. We believe that the key factors that could affect our internal and external sources of cash include: Geopolitical and macroeconomic factors caused by the COVID-19 pandemic which has had, and is expected to continue to have, negative impacts on the economies of the majority of countries and industries. The potential effect of this pandemic and the responses of various governmental entities and industries thereto, the duration and severity of the pandemic, the possibility of the re-emergence of the pandemic in future months and the anticipated recovery period is uncertain. Factors that affect our results of operations and cash flows, including the impact on our business and operations as a result of changes in demand for our products, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, competitive pricing pressures, effective management of our manufacturing capacity, our ability to achieve further reductions in operating expenses, the impact of our restructuring programs on our production and cost efficiency and our ability to make the research and development expenditures required to remain competitive in our business; and Factors that affect our access to bank financing and the debt and equity capital markets that could impair our ability to obtain needed financing on acceptable terms or to respond to business opportunities and developments as they arise, including interest rate fluctuations, macroeconomic conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, sudden reductions in the general availability of lending from banks or the related increase in cost to obtain bank financing and our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt agreements in effect from time to time. The holders of our 1.00% Notes may submit them for conversion on or after September 1, 2020. The 1.00% Notes will mature on December 1, 2020. Our ability to service our long-term debt, including our 1.625% Notes, 1.00% Notes, Revolving Credit Facility and Term Loan "B" Facility, to remain in compliance with the various covenants contained in our debt agreements and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and business development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash from operating activities, which is subject to, among other things, our future operating performance, timing of the economic recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as to financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other conditions, some or all of which may be beyond our control. If we fail to generate sufficient cash from operations, we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer term objectives. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available or, if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. Although we have not attempted or needed to access the capital markets in the recent weeks, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant volatility in the capital markets. We expect that accessing the capital markets could be challenging or come at elevated costs until the conditions improve and the COVID-19 pandemic is contained. 33 Table of Contents During the ordinary course of business, we evaluate our cash requirements and, if necessary, adjust our expenditures for inventory, operating expenditures and capital expenditures to reflect the current market conditions and our projected sales and demand. Our capital expenditures are primarily directed toward production equipment and capacity expansion. Our capital expenditure levels can materially influence our available cash for other initiatives. For example, during the quarter ended April 3, 2020, we paid $132.3 million for capital expenditures, while during the quarter ended March 29, 2019, we paid $157.0 million for capital expenditures. Our current minimum contractual capital expenditure commitment for the remainder of 2020 is approximately $46.4 million. Our current minimum contractual capital expenditure commitment for 2021 and thereafter is approximately $4.2 million. We expect to incur capital expenditures of approximately 8% to 9% of annual revenue for the remainder of 2020 which factors in the current developments due to COVID-19. Future capital expenditures may be impacted by events and transactions that are not currently forecasted. Primary Cash Flow Sources Our long-term cash generation is dependent on the ability of our operations to generate cash. Our cash flows from operating activities were $166.0 million and $138.2 million for the quarter ended April 3, 2020 and March 29, 2019, respectively. The increase of $27.8 million was primarily attributable to the non-payment of variable compensation during 2020 compared to 2019, offset by a reduction in net income due to decreased demand for our products as well as a change in working capital during the period. Our ability to maintain positive operating cash flows is dependent on, among other factors, our success in achieving our revenue goals and manufacturing and operating cost targets. Our management of our assets and liabilities, including both working capital and long-term assets and liabilities, also influences our operating cash flows, and each of these components is discussed below. Working Capital Working capital, calculated as total current assets less total current liabilities, fluctuates depending on end-market demand and our effective management of certain items such as receivables, inventory and payables. Our working capital, excluding cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $1,003.8 million at April 3, 2020 and has fluctuated between $1,043.4 million and $767.4 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. Our working capital, including cash and cash equivalents and the current portion of long-term debt, was $2,296.2 million at April 3, 2020 and has fluctuated between $2,296.2 million and $1,032.0 million at the end of each of our last eight fiscal quarters. During the quarter ended April 3, 2020, our working capital was most significantly impacted by Credit Facility Draw and capital expenditures. Although investments made to fund working capital will reduce our cash balances, these investments are necessary to support business and operating initiatives. Long-Term Assets and Liabilities Our long-term assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred taxes and goodwill. Our manufacturing rationalization plans have included efforts to utilize our existing manufacturing assets and supply arrangements more efficiently. We believe that near-term access to additional manufacturing capacity, should it be required, could be readily obtained on reasonable terms through manufacturing agreements with third parties. Our long-term liabilities, excluding long-term debt and deferred taxes, consist of liabilities under our foreign defined benefit pension plans and contingent tax reserves. In regard to our foreign defined benefit pension plans, our annual funding of these obligations is equal to the minimum amount legally required in each jurisdiction in which the plans operate. This annual amount is dependent upon numerous actuarial assumptions. Key Financing and Capital Events Overview For the past several years, we have undertaken various measures to secure liquidity to pursue acquisitions, repurchase shares of our common stock, reduce interest costs, amend existing key financing arrangements and, in some cases, extend a portion of our debt maturities to continue to provide us additional operating flexibility. 34 Table of Contents Cash Management Our ability to manage cash is limited, as our primary cash inflows and outflows are dictated by the terms of our sales and supply agreements, contractual obligations, debt instruments and legal and regulatory requirements. While we have some flexibility with respect to the timing of capital equipment purchases, we must invest in capital equipment on a timely basis to allow us to maintain our manufacturing efficiency and support our platforms for new products. On March 24, 2020, we borrowed the remaining $1,165.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility as a precautionary measure in order to increase our cash position and provide financial flexibility in light of the current uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Debt Guarantees and Related Covenants As of April 3, 2020, we were in compliance with the indentures relating to our 1.00% Notes and 1.625% Notes and with covenants in the Amended Credit Agreement, including those relating to our Term Loan B Facility and Revolving Credit Facility, and covenants in our other debt agreements. Our 1.00% Notes and our 1.625% Notes are senior to the existing and future subordinated indebtedness of ON Semiconductor and its guarantor subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment to all of our existing and future senior debt and as unsecured obligations are subordinated to all of our existing and future secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements, see our 2019 Form 10-K and Note 3: "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in the notes to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.