Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 17: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for revenues by geographic locations. Manufacturing Operations We operate front-end wafer site facilities located in Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Japan, Malaysia, and the United States, and back-end assembly and test site facilities located in Canada, China, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, and Vietnam. In addition to these front-end and back-end manufacturing operations, our facility in Roznov, Czech Republic manufactures silicon wafers that are used by a number of our facilities. We operate all of our manufacturing facilities directly, except in the case of our joint venture in Leshan, China. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we committed to the Aizu Plan to close our wafer manufacturing facility located in Aizu, Japan by the end of the second quarter of 2012. Under the Aizu Plan, a majority of the Aizu, Japan production will be transferred to other wafer fabrication facilities. The Aizu Plan is being undertaken as part of our overall drive for operational efficiencies and is in line with an ongoing strategy aimed at migrating in-house production to large, high volume facilities, and investing in more advanced wafer technologies. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we committed to a plan to close our probe, assembly and test operations located in Ayutthaya, Thailand and to partially close our facility in Bang Pa In, Thailand (Thailand Plans) as a result of the damage caused to those facilities by the 2011 flooding in that region and the fact that the costs to recover and reconstruct those facilities would be excessive. Under the Thailand Plans, a majority of the Ayutthaya and Bang Pa In production will be transferred to other Company-owned facilities that have excess equipment capacity and excess floor space, and to some external subcontractors. We anticipate that the Thailand Plans will be completed by the end of June 2012. 12 Table of Contents The table below sets forth information with respect to the manufacturing facilities we operate either directly or through our joint venture, as well as the reporting segments that use these facilities. The sizes of the locations represent the approximate gross square footage of each sites building and include, among other things, manufacturing, laboratory, warehousing, office, utility, support and unused areas. Location Products Size (sq. ft.) Front-end Facilities: Burlington, Canada Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 95,400 Gresham, Oregon Computing and Consumer Products Group and Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 518,000 Pocatello, Idaho Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 443,000 Roznov, Czech Republic Computing and Consumer Products Group and Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 237,000 Aizu, Japan (1) Computing and Consumer Products Group, Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group and Standard Products Group 289,500 Oudenaarde, Belgium Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 167,900 Seremban, Malaysia (Site-2) Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group and Standard Products Group 81,200 Oizumi town, Gunma, Japan (2) (4) SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 406,600 Anpachi town, Gifu, Japan (1) (4) SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 424,000 Ojiya city, Niigata, Japan SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 1,724,600 Back-end Facilities: Ayutthaya, Thailand (1) SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 1,243,900 Burlington, Canada Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 95,400 Leshan, China Standard Products Group 363,000 Seremban, Malaysia (Site-1) Computing and Consumer Products Group, Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group and Standard Products Group 309,300 Calamba, Philippines (2) (4) Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 200,600 Carmona, Philippines Computing and Consumer Products Group, Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group and Standard Products Group 222,500 Bang Pa In, Thailand (3) (4) Standard Products Group 9,000 Saitama, Japan SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 377,000 Tarlac City, Philippines SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 861,100 Shenzhen, China SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 208,000 Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam SANYO Semiconductor Products Group 59,200 13 Table of Contents Location Products Size (sq. ft.) Other Facilities: Roznov, Czech Republic Computing and Consumer Products and Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group 405,300 Santa Clara, California Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group. 42,000 (1) As noted above, the sites are scheduled to be closed during 2012. (2) During 2012, we will be exiting certain of these leased facilities. (3) During 2012, we will partially close this facility. (4) These facilities are leased. We operate an assembly and test operations facility in Leshan, China. This facility is owned by a joint venture company, Leshan-Phoenix Semiconductor Company Limited (Leshan), of which we own a majority of the outstanding equity interests. Our investment in Leshan has been consolidated in our financial statements. Our joint venture partner, Leshan Radio Company Ltd., is formerly a state-owned enterprise. Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, requests for production capacity are made to the board of directors of Leshan by each shareholder of the joint venture. Each request represents a purchase commitment by the requesting shareholder, provided that the shareholder may elect to pay the cost associated with the unused capacity (which is generally equal to the fixed cost of the capacity) in lieu of satisfying the commitment. We committed to purchase 70% of Leshans production capacity in 2011, 70% in 2010 and 73% in 2009 and are currently committed to purchase approximately 70% of Leshans expected production capacity in 2012. In 2011 and 2010, we incurred no underutilization charges. In 2009, we incurred $2.7 million in underutilization charges. As part of our manufacturing agreements with Leshan, we supply die used in the production process. The Leshan facility is one of our lowest cost manufacturing operations. In June 2002, we obtained approval from the Chinese government for the Leshan joint venture to invest up to $231.0 million in semiconductor operations, which is in addition to the $278.0 million originally approved. In 2004, we committed to make capital contributions of approximately $25.0 million to this joint venture by 2012, subject to market conditions. As of December 31, 2011, we had made capital contributions of approximately $16.4 million to this joint venture. We have the ability to time these expenditures at our discretion to meet market demand. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of finished goods. Our agreements with these contract manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts. In some cases, longer-term commitments are required in the early stages of the relationship. These contract manufacturers, including Amkor, UTAC, Unisem, Nantong, Stars, UMC and TSMC, accounted for approximately 18%, 29% and 25% of our manufacturing costs in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Raw Materials Our manufacturing processes use many raw materials, including silicon wafers, gold, copper, and lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. We obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources generally on a just-in-time basis, and material agreements with our suppliers that impose minimum or continuing supply obligations are reflected in our table showing commitments, contingencies and indemnities in Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this report. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that supplies of the raw materials we use are currently and will continue to be available, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. 14 Table of Contents Sales, Marketing and Distribution As of December 31, 2011, our global sales and marketing organization consisted of approximately 1,258 professionals operating out of approximately 47 offices which serve customers in 77 countries. We support our customers through logistics organizations and just-in-time warehouses. Global and regional distribution channels further support our customers needs for quick response and service. We offer efficient, cost-effective Internet-based applications support from our laboratories in the Czech Republic, China and the United States. Through on-line connectivity, applications developed in one region of the world are now instantaneously available to all other regions. We continue to monitor our freight and logistical support operations for potential cost savings. Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Intellectual Property Rights We market our products under our registered trademark ON Semiconductor and our ON logo, as well as under the licensed trademark and logo of SANYO Semiconductor, which we are able to utilize for a three year period from the acquisition date with some extension of time for certain products that are manufactured but not yet sold by the end of 2013. We own rights to a number of patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property directly related to and important to our business. In connection with our 1999 recapitalization, Motorola assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us, as the case may be, certain intellectual property to support and continue the operation of our business. We also acquired or were licensed or sublicensed a significant amount of intellectual property, including patents and patent applications, in connection with our acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor. In connection with the intellectual property received from both the Motorola and SANYO Semiconductor transactions, we received a limited indemnity umbrella to protect us from general unknown and certain known infringement claims from third parties. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 6,129 U.S. and foreign patents and approximately 3,511 patent applications pending worldwide. Our patents have expiration dates ranging from 2012 to 2031. None of our patents that expire in the near future materially affect our business. Additionally, we have rights to more than 370 registered and common law trademarks. Our policy is to protect our products and processes by asserting our intellectual property rights where appropriate and prudent and by obtaining patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights used in connection with our business when practicable and appropriate. Seasonality Our revenues are affected by the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry and the seasonal trends of related end-markets. Traditionally, the seasonal trend consisted of a soft first half of the year with a stronger second half of the year for consumer products. In recent years, the industry has also been affected by significant shifts in consumer demand due to economic downturns or other factors, which may result in volatility in order patterns and lead times, sudden shifts in product demand and periodic production over-capacity. We have, in the past, experienced substantial quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in revenues and operating results and, in the future, could to continue to experience short term period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to general industry or economic conditions. Backlog Our trade sales are made primarily pursuant to orders that are predominately booked as far as 26 weeks in advance of delivery. Generally, prices and quantities are fixed at the time of booking. Backlog as of a given date consists of existing orders and forecasted demands from our Electronic Data Interface customers, in each case scheduled to be shipped over the 13-week period following such date. Backlog is influenced by several factors including market demand, pricing and customer order patterns in reaction to product lead times. For those shipments to distributors who are allowed sales return rights and allowances, we record revenues on a sell-through basis. Thus, backlog comprised of orders from these distributors will not result in revenues until these distributors sell the products ordered. During 2011, our backlog at the beginning of each quarter represented between 82% and 91% of actual revenues during such quarter, which is lower on a percentage basis than prior years, due to the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor, as that business has a lower backlog as compared to the 15 Table of Contents historical ON Semiconductor business. As manufacturing capacity utilization in the industry increases, customers tend to order products further in advance and, as a result, backlog at the beginning of a period as a percentage of revenues during such period is likely to increase. In the semiconductor industry, backlog quantities and shipment schedules under outstanding purchase orders are frequently revised to reflect changes in customer needs. Agreements calling for the sale of specific quantities are either contractually subject to quantity revisions or, as a matter of industry practice, are often not enforced. Therefore, a significant portion of our order backlog may be cancelable. For these reasons, the amount of backlog as of any particular date may not be an accurate indicator of future results. We sell products to key customers pursuant to contracts that allow us to schedule production capacity in advance and allow the customers to manage their inventory levels consistent with just-in-time principles while shortening the cycle times required for producing ordered products. However, these contracts are typically amended to reflect changes in customer demands and periodic price renegotiations. Competition The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for general-purpose semiconductor products like ours, is highly competitive. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies, as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that in some cases can be integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, ASICs and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. (See Part I, Item 1A Risk FactorsTrends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business located elsewhere in this report.) When compared to us, several of the competitors noted below are larger in scale and size, have substantially greater financial and other resources with which to pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products and may generally be better situated to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. Below we discuss the effects of competition on our four primary operating segments: Computing and Consumer Products Group The principal methods of competition in the Computing and Consumer Products Group are technical performance, total solution cost of ownership, quality and assurance of supply. Our architectures for AC-DC conversion offer a competitive total cost of ownership and leadership in power efficiency to compete. Our architecture for our microprocessor and DDR memory controllers offers a competitive cost of ownership and performance position to compete in the computing and consumer game console market. In addition, the breadth of our portfolio in other support functions such as DC- DC converters, over voltage protection ICs, video and audio ICs, and standard analog and logic ICs give us the opportunity to serve multiple requirements and allow customers to control their vendor lists more easily. Our significant competitors in this market include Intersil Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Texas Instruments Incorporated, STMicroelectronics N.V. and Power Integrations, Inc. Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero The principal methods of competition in the Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Product Group are with other customer-specific semiconductor vendors based on design experience, manufacturing capability, depth and quality of intellectual property, ability to service customer needs from the design phase to the shipping of a completed product, length of design cycle, longevity of technology support and experience of sales and technical support personnel. Our ability to compete successfully depends on internal and external variables, both inside and outside of our control. These variables include, but are not limited to, the timeliness with which we can develop new 16 Table of Contents products and technologies, product performance and quality, manufacturing yields and availability, customer service, pricing, industry trends and general economic trends. Our Medical and Custom Industrial businesses face direct competition from large diversified semiconductor suppliers that supply custom and semi-custom ICs, such as STMicroelectronics N.V. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. The business also faces direct competition from smaller end-market-focused mixed-signal suppliers, such as Elmos Semiconductor and ZMD AG. Direct competition also comes from our target customers themselves, who may have internal IC design resources dedicated to supporting the parent. Our Timing Products business faces direct competition from clock suppliers such as Cypress Semiconductor and Integrated Device Technology, Inc., and our Digital ASIC business faces threats from FPGA vendors such as Xilinx, Inc. and Altera Corporation, as well as digital ASIC suppliers like Open-Silicon, Inc. and e-Silicon Corporation. Our primary foundry competition includes X-FAB Semiconductor Foundries AG, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., Tower Semiconductor Ltd. and MagnaChip Semiconductor LLC. We also face indirect competition from ASSP suppliers such as Microchip Technology, Inc., whose mixed-signal microcontroller products capture low-end mixed-signal ASIC opportunities. Indirect competition also comes from analog standard products suppliers such as Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., Analog Devices, Inc. and Linear Technology Corporation, whose technical performance or off-the-shelf availability may be better than what we can offer. The principal methods of competition in the configurable analog products, LED drivers and EEPROM spaces are product performance and new product innovations, where we are specifically focusing on integrating IP (e.g., EEPROM, digital potentiometer, and voltage reference blocks) as building blocks to create high value-added ASSPs. Our significant competitors include Atmel Corporation, STMicroelectronics N.V., Microchip Technology Incorporated, Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., Intersil Corporation, Linear Technology Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corporation and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Standard Products Group Our competitive strengths are in our market leading protection and filtering products, the breadth of our portfolio, technical performance, micro-packaging expertise, our high quality, low cost structure, and supply chain management which ensures supply to key customers. In addition, our strengths include our strong intellectual property (IP) portfolio and our ability to leverage IP blocks across the Company to develop high value-added ASSPs. The principal methods of competing in our discrete semiconductor products are through new product and package innovations with enhanced performance over existing products. Of particular importance are our over voltage protection and filtering portfolios (ESD Protection, TVS Zeners), power switching and rectification products and constant current regulators (CCRs), where we enjoy significant performance advantages over our competition. Our significant competitors include Diodes Incorporated, NXP B.V., Rohm Co., Ltd., TSPS Corporation, Infineon Technologies AG, Vishay Intertechnology, Inc., Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., STMicroelectronics N.V., and Semtech Corporation. One specific competitive challenge this group faces is our small market share with certain Japanese automotive customers that tend to favor local suppliers for their new product designs. With the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor in January 2011, we expect this weakness to be mitigated. SANYO Semiconductor Products Group The principal methods of competition for SANYO Semiconductor are technical performance, quality, service and price. Our competitive strengths in this group are our strong technology and design capability, breadth of product portfolio, systems design expertise and long-standing supply relationships with leading OEM customers. Our significant competitors include Toshiba Corporation, Renasas Electronics Corporation, NXP 17 Table of Contents B.V., Rohm Co. Ltd., Mistubishi Electric, STMicroelectronics N.V., Fairchild Semiconductor International, Inc., International Rectifier Corporation and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Research and Development Company-sponsored research and development costs in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $362.5 million (10.5% of revenue), $248.0 million (10.7% of revenue) and $198.8 million (11.2% of revenue), respectively. Our new product development efforts continue to be focused on building solutions in power management that appeal to customers in focused market segments and across multiple high growth applications. During 2011, research and development costs increased due to increased expense associated with on-going research and development activities associated with our SANYO Semiconductor acquisition, along with an increase in labor cost related to increases in head count. Government Regulation Our manufacturing operations are subject to environmental and worker health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations include those relating to emissions and discharges into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances, the release of hazardous substances into the environment at or from our facilities and at other sites, and the investigation and remediation of resulting contamination. Our headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona is located on property that is a Superfund site, a property listed on the National Priorities List and subject to clean-up activities under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. Motorola and now Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. (Freescale) have been actively involved in the cleanup of on-site solvent contaminated soil and groundwater and off-site contaminated groundwater pursuant to consent decrees with the State of Arizona. As part of our 1999 recapitalization, Motorola retained responsibility for this contamination and Motorola and Freescale have agreed to indemnify us with respect to remediation costs and other costs or liabilities related to this matter. Our manufacturing location in Aizu, Japan is located on property where soil and ground water contamination has been detected. We believe that the contamination originally occurred during a time when the facility was operated by a prior owner. We are working with local authorities to determine the appropriate remediation actions and expect remediation costs, subject to certain limitations, to be indemnified pursuant to an agreement between us and the prior owner or covered by insurance subject to a deductible. Based on information available, any net costs to us in connection with this matter are not expected to be material. Our manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic has ongoing remediation projects to respond to releases of hazardous substances that occurred during the years that this facility was operated by government-owned entities. The remediation project consists primarily of monitoring groundwater wells located on-site and off-site, with additional action plans developed to respond in the event activity levels are exceeded. The government of the Czech Republic has agreed to indemnify us and the respective subsidiaries, subject to specified limitations, for remediation costs associated with this historical contamination. Based upon the information available, we do not believe that total future remediation costs to us will be material. Our design center in East Greenwich, Rhode Island is located on property that has localized soil contamination. When we purchased the East Greenwich facility, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Covenant Not To Sue with the State of Rhode Island. This agreement requires that remedial actions be undertaken and a quarterly groundwater monitoring program be initiated by the former owners of the property. Based on the information available, we do not believe that any costs to us in connection with this matter will be material. As a result of the acquisition of AMIS, we are a primary responsible party to an environmental remediation and cleanup at AMISs former corporate headquarters in Santa Clara, California. Costs incurred by AMIS include implementation of the clean-up plan, operations and maintenance of remediation systems, and 18 Table of Contents other project management costs. However, AMISs former parent company, a subsidiary of Nippon Mining contractually agreed to indemnify AMIS and us for any obligation relating to environmental remediation and cleanup at this location. We have not offset the receivable from Nippon Minings subsidiary against the estimated liability on the consolidated balance sheets. Therefore, a receivable from Nippon Minings subsidiary is recorded on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2011 related to this matter in the amount of $0.1 million. We do not believe that the liability and receivable amounts are material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We believe that our operations are in material compliance with applicable environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. We do not expect the cost of compliance with existing environmental and health and safety laws and regulations, and liability for currently known environmental conditions, to have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. It is possible, however, that future developments, including changes in laws and regulations, government policies, customer specification, personnel and physical property conditions, including currently undiscovered contamination, could lead to material costs. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 19,442 employees worldwide, of which 2,411 employees are in the United States. None of our employees in the United States are covered by collective bargaining agreements. Certain of our foreign employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements (i.e., Japan and Belgium) or similar arrangements or are represented by workers councils. For information regarding employee risk associated with our international operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk FactorsTrends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. Of the total number of our employees as of December 31, 2011, approximately 15,286 were engaged in manufacturing, approximately 1,258 were engaged in our sales and marketing organization which includes customer service, approximately 708 were engaged in administration and approximately 2,190 were engaged in research and development. Executive Officers of the Registrant Certain information concerning our executive officers as of February 17, 2012 is set forth below. Name Age Position Keith D. Jackson 56 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director* Donald A. Colvin 58 Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer* Robert Charles Mahoney 62 Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing* William John Nelson, PhD 57 Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer* George H. Cave 54 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer and Corporate Secretary* William M. Hall 56 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Standard Products Group* Bob Klosterboer 51 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group* William A. Schromm 53 Senior Vice President and General Manager, Computing and Consumer Products Group* Teruo Tabata 62 Vice President of SCI LLC and President of SANYO Semiconductor * Executive Officers of both ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. 19 Table of Contents The present term of office for the officers named above will generally expire on the earliest of their retirement, resignation or removal. There is no family relationship among such officers. Keith D. Jackson . Mr. Jackson was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in November 2002. Mr. Jackson has over 30 years of semiconductor industry experience. Before joining ON Semiconductor, he was with Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation, serving as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Analog, Mixed Signal, and Configurable Products Groups, beginning in 1998, and, more recently, was head of its Integrated Circuits Group. From 1996 to 1998, he served as President and a member of the board of directors of Tritech Microelectronics in Singapore, a manufacturer of analog and mixed signal products. From 1986 to 1996, Mr. Jackson worked for National Semiconductor Corporation, most recently as Vice President and General Manager of the Analog and Mixed Signal division. He also held various positions at Texas Instruments Incorporated, including engineering and management positions, from 1973 to 1986. Mr. Jackson has served on the board of directors of the Semiconductor Industry Association since 2008. Donald A. Colvin . Mr. Colvin joined ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC as the Senior Financial Director in March 2003 and currently serves as the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. From April 2003 to May 2010, Mr. Colvin served as the Treasurer for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Before joining the Company, beginning in 1998, he served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer at Atmel Corporation, a manufacturer of advanced semiconductors. Mr. Colvin served as Chief Financial Officer of a subsidiary of Atmel from 1995 to 1998. From 1985 to 1995, he held various positions with European Silicon Structures, most recently as Chief Financial Officer. He held various financial positions with Motorola Semiconductors Europe from 1977 to 1985. Mr. Colvin holds a B.A. in Economics and an M.B.A. from the University of Strathclyde, Scotland. From May 2007 to July 2011, Mr. Colvin served as a member of the board of directors of Applied Micro Circuits Corporation. Robert Charles Mahoney . Mr. Mahoney joined the Company in November 2002 and has served in various positions. Most recently, in June 2006, he was appointed as Executive Vice President for Sales and Marketing for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr. Mahoney has over 20 years of semiconductor industry experience in sales and sales management. From May 2006 through June 2006, Mr. Mahoney served as the interim Senior Vice President of Marketing and Sales for the Company. From August 2004 through April 2006, he served as the Vice President of North America Sales, Computing Segment Sales and Sales Operations, and from November 2002 through August 2004, he served as the Companys Vice President of Global Distribution and Electronic Manufacturing Services Industry. Before joining the Company, Mr. Mahoney was Vice President of World Wide Sales at Xicor Semiconductor from October 2001 until November 2002 and Vice President of Strategic Accounts at Altera Corporation from May 2000 until October 2001. During his career, he has also held sales management roles at Analog Devices, Inc. and National Semiconductor Corp. William John Nelson, Ph.D . Dr. Nelson joined the Company in May 2007 and serves as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. From May 2009 to May 2011, Dr. Nelson served as the Chief Environmental Officer for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Dr. Nelson has more than 31 years of experience in the semiconductor industry. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor, Dr. Nelson was Chief Executive Officer of 1st Silicon, where he was responsible for day-to-day operations, including worldwide manufacturing, sales, marketing and product development. From 1990 to 2002, Dr. Nelson served in several executive positions with General Instrument/General Semiconductor, including as Chief Operations Officer and President of the companys Asia-Pacific operation. Dr. Nelsons industry experience also includes key positions at General Instrument, Unitrode, Fairchild Semiconductor and Analog Devices. Dr. Nelson earned both a Bachelor of Science degree with honors and a PhD in physics from the University of Ulster, Northern Ireland. George H. Cave . Mr. Cave has served as the General Counsel of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC since August 1999. He also currently serves as a Senior Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Chief Compliance & Ethics Officer for the Company. Mr. Caves professional career spans over 25 years of broad legal and business 20 Table of Contents experience, including working for over 18 years in the semiconductor industry. Before his tenure with ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC, he served for two years as the Regulatory Affairs Director for Motorolas Semiconductor Components Group in Geneva, Switzerland. Prior to that position, Mr. Cave was Senior Counsel in the Corporate Law Department of Motorola in Phoenix, Arizona for five years. Mr. Cave also serves as the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the American Medical College of Homeopathy. William M. Hall . Mr. Hall joined ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC in May 2006 as Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group. During his career, Mr. Hall has held various marketing and product line management positions. Before joining the Company, he served as Vice President and General Manager of the Standard Products Group at Fairchild Semiconductor Corp. Between March 1997 and May 2006, Mr. Hall served at different times as Vice President of Business Development, Analog Products Group, Standard Products Group, and Interface and Logic Group, as well as serving as Vice President of Corporate Marketing at Fairchild. He has also held management positions with National Semiconductor Corp. and was a RADAR design engineer with RCA. Robert A. Klosterboer . Mr. Klosterboer joined the Company in March 2008 and currently serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Automotive, Industrial, Medical and Mil-Aero Products Group of ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. He has more than two decades of experience in the electronics industry. During his career, Mr. Klosterboer has held various engineering, marketing and product line management positions and responsibilities. Prior to joining ON Semiconductor in 2008, Mr. Klosterboer was Senior Vice President, Automotive & Industrial Group for AMI Semiconductor, Inc. Mr. Klosterboer joined AMIS in 1982 as a test engineer and during his tenure there he also was a design engineer, field applications engineer, design section manager, program development manager, and product marketing manager. Mr. Klosterboer holds a bachelors degree in electrical engineering technology from Montana State University. William A. Schromm . Mr. Schromm has been with the Company since August 1999 and as of May 2006, serves as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Computing and Consumer Products Group for ON Semiconductor and SCI LLC. Mr. Schromm has over 30 years of semiconductor industry experience. During his tenure with the Company, he has held various positions. From December 2005 through May 2006, he served as the Vice President and General Manager of the High Performance Analog Division and also led the Analog Products Group. Beginning in January 2003, he served as Vice President of the Clock and Data Management business and continued in that role with additional product responsibilities when this business became the High Performance Analog Division in August 2004. Prior to that, he served as the Vice President of Tactical Marketing from July 2001 through December 2002, after leading the Companys Standard Logic Division since August 1999. Teruo Tabata . Mr. Tabata was appointed as Vice President of SCI LLC in February 2012 and has served as President of ON Semiconductors SANYO Semiconductor Division since its acquisition by ON Semiconductor in January 2011. Mr. Tabata also served as President of SANYO Semiconductor from July 2006 to January 2011, during which time it was a subsidiary of SANYO Electric. Also, from July 2006 to March 2008, he served as Innovation Group Executive of SANYO Electric (SANYO Electrics CTO). From 1974 to July 2006, Mr. Tabata served in various positions for SANYO Electric and its predecessors including most recently as Senior Vice President of SANYO Electric and Semiconductor Company President. During his tenure at SANYO Electric, Mr. Tabata also served as President of SANYO EPSON IMAGING DEVICES CORPORATION, General Manager of SANYO Electrics LSI business unit, the Display Company President of SANYO Electrics Component business unit, General Manager of SANYO Electrics BIP-LSI business unit and Vice President of Niigata SANYO Electric Co., Ltd. Mr. Tabata graduated with a Masters Degree from The University of Tokyo, Faculty of Engineering (the department of electronics). Geographical Information For certain geographic operating information, see Note 9: Income Taxes and Note 17: Segment Information of the notes to our audited consolidated financial statements and Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, in each case, as included elsewhere 21 Table of Contents in this report. For information regarding other aspects of risks associated with our foreign operations, see Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business elsewhere in this report. Available Information We make our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports available, free of charge, in the Investor Relations section of our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file these materials with, or furnish these materials to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Our website is www.onsemi.com . You may also read or copy any materials that we file with the SEC at their Public Reference Room at 100 F. Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain additional information about the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, you will find these materials on the SEC Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Overview This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). All statements, other than statements of historical facts, included or incorporated in this Form 10-K could be deemed forward-looking statements, particularly statements about our plans, strategies and prospects under the headings Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Business. Forward-looking statements are often characterized by the use of words such as believes, estimates, expects, projects, may, will, intends, plans, or anticipates, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. All forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are made based on our current expectations and estimates, and involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause results or events to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Among these factors are our revenues and operating performance, poor economic conditions and markets (including current credit and financial conditions), effects of exchange rate fluctuations, the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry, changes in demand for our products, changes in inventories at our customers and distributors, technological and product development risks, enforcement and protection of our intellectual property rights and related risks, availability of raw materials, electricity, gas, water and other supply chain uncertainties, and our ability to effectively shift production to other facilities in order to maintain supply continuity for our customers, variable demand and the aggressive pricing environment for semiconductor products, our ability to successfully manufacture in increasing volumes on a cost-effective basis and with acceptable quality for our current products, competitor actions, including the adverse impact of competitor product announcements, pricing and gross profit pressures, loss of key customers, order cancellations or reduced bookings, changes in manufacturing yields, control of costs and expenses and realization of cost savings from restructurings and synergies, significant litigation, risks associated with decisions to expend cash reserves for various uses such as debt prepayment or acquisitions rather than to retain such cash for future needs, risks associated with acquisitions and dispositions (including from integrating and consolidating and timely filing financial information with the Commission for acquired businesses such as SANYO Semiconductor and difficulties encountered in accurately predicting the future financial performance of acquired businesses, such as SANYO Semiconductor), risks associated with our substantial leverage and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements from time to time, risks associated with our worldwide operations including foreign employment and labor matters associated with unions and collective bargaining arrangements as well as man-made and/or natural disasters such as the flooding in Thailand or the Japan earthquake and tsunami affecting our operations and finances/financials, the threat or occurrence of international armed conflict and terrorist activities both in the United States and internationally, risks and costs associated with increased and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards (including pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), risks related to new legal requirements and risks 22 Table of Contents involving environmental or other governmental regulation. Additional factors that could affect our future results or events are described from time to time in our SEC reports. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. We assume no obligation to update such information. You should carefully consider the trends, risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this Form 10-K and subsequent reports filed with or furnished to the SEC before making any investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following trends, risks or uncertainties actually occurs or continues, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected, the trading prices of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. All forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties Related to Our Business From time to time, we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses, and we may experience additional declines in revenues and incur additional operating losses in the future. At times our historical financial results have been subject to substantial fluctuations and during those times we have experienced declines in revenues and incurred operating losses. Reduced end-user demand, price declines, excess inventory, underutilization of our manufacturing capacity, the effects of natural disasters such as the flooding in Thailand or the Japan earthquake and tsunami and other factors could adversely affect our business. In order to remain profitable, we must continue to successfully implement our business plan and examine and implement potentially advantageous cost reduction initiatives. We have significant operations in Thailand and the recent flooding in Thailand has negatively impacted our operations in Thailand. Our SANYO Semiconductor divisions Thailand operations, including buildings and equipment and books and financial and other corporate records located at the Rojana Industrial Park in Ayutthaya, Thailand, have been severely damaged by or lost as a result of the recent flooding in Thailand. We also have operations located in an industrial park in Bang Pa In, Thailand that were affected by the flood. We are continuing to monitor customer production needs and are shifting production to other facilities within and outside of our global manufacturing network. We believe that it will take multiple quarters for restoration of our production capacity to pre-flood levels and/or to transfer production to other sites. The flooding will negatively impact revenues and earnings. Such impacts could include, but are not limited to, (i) impacts on our ability to continue to acquire the components of our products on a timely basis from vendors that have been affected by the floods or from alternative sources of supply, if any; (ii) impacts on the continuing availability of uninterrupted services from subcontractors; (iii) impacts on the cost of component materials and services that we acquire from our vendors and subcontractors, which may increase as a result of supply shortages or otherwise; (iv) impacts from customer purchase order or inventory cancellations or reductions and lost market share; and (v) impacts from restructuring or facility closure activities including employee severance payments. In addition, we have not been able to determine the extent to which our historical books and financial and other corporate records and data for our SANYO Semiconductor divisions Thailand operations have been lost due to the flooding, including any records that may have been saved electronically and the backup storage for these electronic records. We are continuing to evaluate the extent to which this data may have been lost, our ability to recover or reconstruct any such data that has been lost, and other impacts of the loss of any such data and our options for dealing with the resultant circumstances. If any such data has been lost and we are unable to recover or reconstruct the data, it could adversely impact our historical reporting of our financial results. 23 Table of Contents We operate in the highly cyclical semiconductor industry, which is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and, as a result, is subject to significant downturns and upturns. The industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product cycles (for semiconductors and for the end-user products in which they are used) and declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. On the other hand, significant upturns have led to increased customer demand for our products and the risk of not being able to meet this demand in a timely and cost efficient manner. In some ways, we have experienced these conditions in our business in the past and may experience these in the future. We cannot accurately predict the timing of the current and future downturns and upturns in the semiconductor industry and how severe and prolonged these conditions might be. These future conditions in the semiconductor industry could seriously impact our revenues and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions, including those related to the credit markets, may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. Uncertainty about global economic conditions could result in fluctuations to and reductions in consumer and commercial spending from time to time. The semiconductor industry has traditionally been highly cyclical and has often experienced significant downturns in connection with, or in anticipation of, declines in general economic conditions. Reduced spending has in the past and may in the future drive us and our competitors to reduce product pricing, which results in a negative impact on gross profit. Volatility in global economic conditions may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations, and we cannot accurately predict volatility or how severe and prolonged any downturn or recovery might be. In addition, to the extent we incorrectly plan for favorable economic conditions that do not materialize or take longer to materialize than expected, then our business and results of operations could be adversely and materially affected. Moreover, volatility in revenues as a result of unpredictable economic conditions may alter our anticipated working capital needs and interfere with our short term and long term strategies. Furthermore, the United States and global credit markets could experience renewed financial turmoil. If the past pressures on credit were renewed or we experience an additional global downturn, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all and we may not be able to refinance, if necessary, any outstanding debt when due, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. While we believe we have adequate sources of liquidity to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures for the immediate future, if our operating results falter and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face liquidity problems that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, unanticipated global financial uncertainty affecting the financial and other markets could impact our business in a number of other ways, including causing (1) our customers and consumers in general to defer purchases, (2) our customers difficulties in obtaining sufficient credit to finance purchases of our products and meet their payment obligations to us, (3) our key suppliers to become capacity constrained or insolvent resulting in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a significant increase in the price of supplies and (4) our key suppliers to require acceleration of payments to them or our customers to delay payments to us. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We have made and may continue to make strategic acquisitions of other companies or businesses and these acquisitions introduce significant risks and uncertainties, including risks related to integrating the acquired businesses, incurring additional debt, assuming contingent liabilities or diluting our existing stockholders. In order to position ourselves to take advantage of growth opportunities, we have made, and may continue to make, strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances that involve significant risks and uncertainties. Successful 24 Table of Contents acquisitions and alliances in the semiconductor industry are difficult to accomplish because they require, among other things, efficient integration and aligning of product offerings and manufacturing operations and coordination of sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We face risks resulting from the expansion of our operations through acquisitions, including but not limited to: (1) the difficulty of integrating, aligning and coordinating organizations, which will likely be geographically separated and involve separate technologies and corporate cultures; (2) risks of entering new semiconductor markets or regions of the world in which we have limited experience; (3) risks associated with integrating financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies, such as SANYO Semiconductor, particularly if such company is lacking adequate financial reporting and internal control systems or possesses systems that are materially different from ours; (4) the risk that our due diligence in the acquisition process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; (5) the risk that our existing or prospective customers or customers of the acquired business may delay or defer their purchasing or other decisions as we integrate new businesses and companies into our business, or that they may seek to change their existing business relationships; (6) challenges in achieving strategic objectives, cost savings and other benefits from acquisitions including difficulties in entering into new market segments in which we are not experienced; (7) the risk that our markets do not evolve as anticipated and that the technologies acquired do not prove to be those needed to be successful in those markets; (8) difficulties in expanding information technology systems and other business processes to accommodate the acquired businesses; and (9) negative pressure on gross margins resulting from increased operating and restructuring costs associated with the target. In addition, current and prospective employees could experience uncertainty about their future with us, and as a result, we could lose key employees. These uncertainties may also impair our ability to recruit or motivate key personnel. In connection with a transaction, key employees of acquired businesses may receive substantial value in the form of change-in-control agreements, acceleration of stock options and the lifting of restrictions on other equity-based compensation rights. Further, as a result of our acquisitions, we may assume liabilities from the targets current employee benefit plans that may require us to bring plan documentation into compliance with current law, including ensuring that plans are adequately funded. In connection with our acquisition activity, we are required by generally accepted accounting principles and SEC rules and regulations to integrate newly acquired businesses into our consolidated financial statements. The acquired businesses may not have independent audited financial statements, or if they do have independent audited financial statements, such statements may not be prepared under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Acquired businesses may have financial controls and systems that are not compatible with our financial controls and systems, which could materially impair our ability to obtain or prepare necessary financial information concerning such businesses in a format required to allow proper integration with our systems and financials. In addition, immediately after an acquisition and until such time as we are able to fully integrate an acquired business into our financial statements, we may be dependent on the acquired business financial controls and systems for reporting and other financial information, including projections and goals for such acquired business. We may not be able to successfully prepare and file required financial statements or other financial information for the acquired business, or to integrate the acquired business into our financial controls and systems and our consolidated financial statements in a timely manner. Failure to prepare accurate financial reports for our acquired businesses in a timely manner in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States could cause material inaccuracies in our financial statements and SEC filings, which could result in the necessity to restate our financials or lead to unknown liabilities and possibly result in a material impact on our stock price. The integration of newly acquired businesses will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. In particular, the integration of SANYO Semiconductor has and will continue to require significant internal and external coordination. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Moreover, even if we were able to fully integrate new acquisitions business operations and other assets successfully, there can be no assurance that such integration will result in the 25 Table of Contents realization of the full benefits of synergies, cost savings, innovation and operational efficiencies that may be possible from the acquisition or that these benefits will be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Delays in integrating our acquisitions, which could be caused by factors outside of our control, could adversely affect the intended benefits of our business, financial results, financial condition and stock price. In connection with an acquisition, it is possible that we may anticipate tax savings through integration of the newly acquired business into our business and rationalization of a combined infrastructure. As with any estimate, it is possible that the estimates of the potential cost savings could turn out to be incorrect. We review goodwill associated with our acquisitions for impairment on an annual basis (See Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies Goodwill of the notes to our consolidated audited financial statements located elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information about goodwill). In the past, we recorded goodwill impairment charges related to certain of our acquisitions. Factors we consider important that could trigger a subsequent impairment to goodwill include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of the use of our assets or the strategy for our overall business and significant negative industry or economic trends. If current economic conditions worsen causing decreased revenues and/or increased costs, we may have further material goodwill impairments. In addition, we may also issue equity securities to pay for future acquisitions or alliances, which could be dilutive to existing stockholders. We may also incur debt or assume contingent liabilities in connection with acquisitions and alliances, which could harm our operating results. For example, in the acquisition of SANYO Semiconductor and related assets in early 2011 (SANYO Transaction), a portion of the purchase price was financed by a seven-year loan with an adjustable interest rate from SANYO Electric to SCI LLC. The loan agreement contains customary events of default as well as representations, warranties, and covenants, but does not contain any financial or negative covenants. It is possible that factors outside of our control, including but not limited to increases in interest rates and loss of key customers, could adversely affect the intended benefits from the SANYO Transaction, but we will continue to have a repayment obligation under the loan agreement. Our gross profit is dependent on a number of factors, including our level of capacity utilization and realizing expected synergies from acquisitions. Semiconductor manufacturing requires significant capital investment, leading to high fixed costs, including depreciation expense. We believe that our success materially depends on our ability to maintain or improve our current margin levels related to our manufacturing. For instance, if we are unable to utilize our manufacturing and testing facilities at a high level, the fixed costs associated with these facilities will not be fully absorbed, resulting in higher average unit costs and lower gross profits. In addition, increased competition and other factors beyond our control, including economic factors, may lead to price erosion, lower revenues and lower margins for us in the future. Moreover, we believe that we will need to improve the historic margin levels of the business and assets we acquired in connection with the SANYO Transaction and successfully execute on available opportunities in order to realize the intended benefits of this transaction. While we anticipate that this acquired business will benefit from expected synergies with our business and planned restructuring, which could improve its historic margin levels, we may not be able to successfully integrate this business within our estimated timeframes (or at all) to allow it to benefit from expected synergies and planned restructuring or we may have generally overestimated the anticipated benefits of expected synergies and planned restructurings. Furthermore, SANYO Electric has agreed to provide certain operational support to SANYO Semiconductor for a period of time, which is meant to reduce SANYO Semiconductors existing operational costs to market-based costs. This operational support relates to, among other things, costs, expenses and other amounts associated with seconded employees, the services agreement, and various lease agreements. There is no guarantee that we will be able to take advantage of all of 26 Table of Contents the operational support available or that, following the expiration of such operational support, margin levels of SANYO Semiconductor will have improved to the point that we are able to operate SANYO Semiconductor profitably. In addition, the SANYO Transaction will continue to allow for cross-selling opportunities between the Company and the acquired company and its customers, but we cannot guarantee that these cross-selling opportunities will be as great as anticipated or result in synergies, as expected. Ultimately, failure to realize anticipated synergies, complete planned restructurings or execute on expected opportunities from the SANYO Transaction may lead to lower revenues and lower margins than anticipated in the future. The failure to implement, as well as the completion and impact of, our profitability enhancement programs and cost reductions, including restructuring activities, could adversely affect our business. From time to time, we have implemented various cost reduction initiatives in response to, among other things, significant downturns in our industry. These initiatives have included accelerating our manufacturing moves into lower cost regions, transitioning higher-cost external supply to internal manufacturing, working with our material suppliers to further lower costs, personnel reductions, reductions in employee compensation, temporary shutdowns of facilities with mandatory vacation and aggressively streamlining our overhead. In the past, we have recorded net restructuring charges to cover costs associated with our cost reduction initiatives. These costs were primarily comprised of employee separation costs and asset impairments as well as gains on the sale of assets and insurance recoveries. We also often undertake restructuring activities in connection with our business acquisitions and integrations, which can result in significant charges, including charges for severance payments to terminated employees and asset impairment charges. For a description of certain restructuring activities in connection with our SANYO Semiconductor and other recent acquisitions, see Note 4: Acquisitions within the notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We cannot assure you that our current restructuring plans or future cost reduction initiatives will be successfully or timely implemented, or will materially impact our profitability. Because our restructuring activities involve changes to many aspects of our business, the cost reductions could adversely impact productivity and sales to an extent we have not anticipated. Even if we fully execute and implement these activities and they generate the anticipated cost savings, there may be other unforeseeable and unintended factors or consequences that could adversely impact our profitability and business, including unintended employee attrition. For additional information regarding our profitability enhancement programs and cost reduction measures, see Part II Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are largely dependent on our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our present business strategy to build upon our position as a global supplier of power and data management semiconductors and standard semiconductor components includes, without limitation, plans to: (1) continue to aggressively manage, maintain and refine our product portfolio; (2) continue to develop leading edge customer support services; (3) further expand our just-in-time delivery capabilities; (4) increase our die manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective manner; (5) further reduce the number of our product platforms and process flows; (6) rationalize our manufacturing operations; (7) relocate manufacturing operations or outsource to lower cost regions; (8) reduce selling and administrative expenses; (9) manage capital expenditures to forecasted production demands; (10) actively manage working capital; (11) develop new products in a more efficient manner; and (12) integrate newly acquired products, manufacturing capabilities and sales channels. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement our business strategy or that implementing our strategy 27 Table of Contents will sustain or improve our results of operations. In particular, we cannot assure you that we will be able to build our position in markets with high growth potential, increase our volume or revenue, rationalize our manufacturing operations or reduce our costs and expenses. Our business strategy is based on our assumptions about the future demand for our current products and the new products and applications that we are developing and on our ability to produce our products profitably. Each of these factors depends on our ability, among other things, to finance our operating and product development activities, maintain high quality and efficient manufacturing operations, relocate and close manufacturing facilities and reduce operating expenses as part of our ongoing cost restructuring with minimal disruption to our operations, access quality raw materials and contract manufacturing services in a cost-effective and timely manner, protect our intellectual property portfolio and attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and finance personnel. Several of these factors and other factors that could affect our ability to implement our business strategy, such as risks associated with international operations, the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict and terrorist activities, increased competition, legal developments and general economic conditions, are beyond our control. In addition, circumstances beyond our control and changes in our business or industry may require us to change our business strategy. We may be unable to make the substantial research and development investments required to remain competitive in our business. The semiconductor industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development that is required to remain competitive. An inability to introduce new products could adversely affect us, and changing technologies or consumption patterns could reduce the demand for our products. Rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, characterize the industries that are currently the primary end-users of semiconductors. As these industries evolve and introduce new products, our success will depend on our ability to predict and adapt to these changes in a timely and cost-effective manner by designing, developing, manufacturing, marketing and providing customer support for our own new products and technologies. The development of new products is a complex and time-consuming process. New products and enhancements to existing products can require long development and testing periods. Significant delays in new product releases or significant problems in creating new products could adversely affect our ability to generate revenue. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify changes in the product markets and requirements of our customers and end-users and adapt to such changes in a timely and cost-effective manner. Nor can we assure you that products or technologies that may be developed in the future by our competitors and others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. A fundamental shift in technologies or consumption patterns in our existing product markets or the product markets of our customers or end-users could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. Moreover, we may make significant investment in new products that may not be profitable or that do not have margins as high as we anticipated or experienced historically. Uncertainties involving the ordering and shipment of, and payment for, our products could adversely affect our business. Our sales are typically made pursuant to individual purchase orders or customer agreements and we generally do not have long-term supply arrangements with our customers. Generally, our customers may cancel orders 30 days prior to shipment for standard products and 90 days for customer products without incurring a 28 Table of Contents significant penalty. We routinely purchase inventory based on customers estimates of demand for their products, which is difficult to predict. This difficulty may be compounded when we sell to OEMs indirectly through distributors or contract manufacturers, or both, as our forecasts for demand are then based on estimates provided by multiple parties. In addition, our customers may change their inventory practices on short notice for any reason. Furthermore, short customer lead times are standard in the industry due to overcapacity. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize could result in excess obsolete inventory, which could result in write-downs of inventory or the incurrence of significant cancellation penalties under our arrangements with our raw materials and equipment suppliers. Competition in our industry could prevent us from maintaining our revenues and from raising prices to offset increases in costs. The semiconductor industry, particularly the market for semiconductor components, is highly competitive. As a result of current economic uncertainty, competition in the markets in which we operate has intensified, as manufacturers of semiconductor components have offered reduced prices in order to combat production overcapacity and high inventory levels. Although only a few companies compete with us in all of our product lines, we face significant competition within each of our product lines from major international semiconductor companies as well as smaller companies focused on specific market niches. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. The semiconductor components industry has also been undergoing significant restructuring and consolidations that could adversely affect our competitiveness. Many of our competitors, particularly larger competitors resulting from consolidations, may have certain advantages over us, including substantially greater financial and other resources with which to withstand adverse economic or market conditions and pursue development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing and distribution of their products; longer independent operating histories; presence in key markets; patent protection; and greater name recognition. Because our components are often building block semiconductors that, in some cases, are integrated into more complex integrated circuits, we also face competition from manufacturers of integrated circuits, application-specific integrated circuits and fully customized integrated circuits, as well as from customers who develop their own integrated circuit products. We compete in different product lines to various degrees on the basis of price, quality, technical performance, product features, product system compatibility, customized design, strategic relationships with customers, new product innovation, availability, delivery timing and reliability and customer sales and technical support. Gross margins in the industry vary by geographic region depending on local demand for the products in which semiconductors are used, such as personal computers, industrial and telecommunications equipment, consumer electronics and automotive goods. Our ability to compete successfully depends on elements both within and outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Unless we maintain manufacturing efficiency, our future profitability could be adversely affected. Manufacturing semiconductor components involves highly complex processes that require advanced equipment. We, and our competitors, continuously modify these processes in an effort to improve yields and product performance. Impurities or other difficulties in the manufacturing process can lower yields. Our manufacturing efficiency will be an important factor in our future profitability, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our manufacturing efficiency or increase manufacturing efficiency to the same extent as our competitors. From time to time, we have experienced difficulty in beginning production at new facilities, transferring production to other facilities or in effecting transitions to new manufacturing processes that have caused us to 29 Table of Contents suffer delays in product deliveries or reduced yields. We cannot assure you that we will not experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, construction delays, transferring production to other facilities (including as a part of our cost reduction measures and in reaction to man-made and natural disasters, such as the flooding in Thailand and earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan), upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies or uncertainty as a result of the acquisition and integration of manufacturing facilities acquired as a result of our acquisition activities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected by the increase in fixed costs and operating expenses related to increases in production capacity, if revenues do not increase proportionately. We could be required to incur significant capital expenditures for manufacturing, information technology and equipment to remain competitive, the failure, inadequacy or delayed implementation of which could harm our ability to effectively operate our business and such capital expenditures and commitments, as well as other commitments, may materially decrease our liquidity. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash on hand, cash generated from operations and funds from external borrowings and equity issuances. Semiconductor manufacturing has historically required a constant upgrading of process technology to remain competitive, as new and enhanced semiconductor processes are developed which permit smaller, more efficient and more powerful semiconductor devices. We maintain certain of our own manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, which have required and will continue to require significant investments in manufacturing technology and equipment. We have made substantial capital expenditures and installed significant production capacity to support new technologies and increased production volume. We also may incur significant costs to implement new manufacturing and information technologies to increase our productivity and efficiency. Any such implementation, however, can be negatively impacted by failures or inadequacies of the new manufacturing or information technology and unforeseen delays in its implementation, any of which may require us to spend additional resources to correct these problems or, in some instances, to conclude that the new technology implementation should be abandoned. In the case of abandonment, we may have to recognize losses for amounts previously expended in connection with such implementation that have been capitalized on our balance sheet. In the recent past, we have undertaken various and material cost reduction measures which we believe have been largely successful. However, these reductions, and any future reductions, may unintentionally affect our ability to remain competitive in efficiency and productivity. Ultimately, we may be forced to increase our future capital expenditures in unexpected ways to meet our operational needs in, among other areas, manufacturing, information technology and equipment. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient capital resources to make timely and necessary investments in the areas discussed above or other areas we have not identified. In addition, we have had and expect to have significant cash and capital expenditures related to the SANYO Transaction and Thailand flooding in 2011. Although we have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs and expenses related to this transaction and subsequent 2011 Thailand flooding, we believe that cash flow from operating activities, coupled with cash on hand, short-term investments and funds from external borrowings, will be adequate to operate our business and otherwise satisfy our capital needs. Given these capital expenditures and other costs associated with SANYO Semiconductor, if we are unable to generate expected cash flows, our liquidity may be adversely affected and we may need to raise additional equity or borrow additional funds to achieve our longer term objectives related to the SANYO Semiconductor operations. There can be no assurance that such equity or borrowings will be available, or if available, will be at rates or prices acceptable to us. We are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and other extraordinary events. Our worldwide operations are subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions from time to time, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial reporting and condition. We are 30 Table of Contents susceptible to losses and interruptions caused by floods, hurricanes, typhoons, droughts, and other extreme weather conditions, earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes, and similar natural disasters, as well as power outages, power shortages, telecommunications failures and similar events. Such events can cause direct injury or damage to our employees and property, including our books and financial and corporate records and data, and related internal controls and can also have significant direct and indirect consequences. For example, such events can negatively impact revenues and earnings and can significantly impact cash flow, both from decreased revenue and from increased costs associated with the event. Such costs may include expenses to restore production or to move production to other facilities, including incremental capital expenditures and costs for expedited shipping, expenses incurred with a shut-down of the damaged facility, including employee severance payments, and other unusual costs and expenses such as fixed asset impairments, inventory write-downs, charges relating to cancellation of purchase orders for excess materials and charges for restoration and recovery work. Overall costs may also be impacted by other factors, such as the under absorption of our manufacturing and operating support overhead. Such events may also affect the infrastructure of the country in which the event occurs, causing water damage, power outages, transportation delays and restrictions, public health issues and economic instability, and disrupting local and international supply chains. As a result, we could experience shortages of and interruptions in supply and increased prices for components that we source from companies located in or with operations in any such country, as well as from other suppliers whose supply chains may similarly be affected. Such shortages and interruptions may also affect our ability to timely deliver our products to customers and, as a result, our customers may seek substitute products from other manufacturers. Consequences such as power outages, including any rolling blackouts or other anticipated problems, could adversely affect our business by, among other things, harming our internal operations, limiting our ability to communicate with our customers and suppliers, and limiting our customers ability to sell or use our products. In addition, damage or destruction to our property, including our books and financial and corporate records and data, could adversely affect our ability to prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and the historical and future reporting of our financial results and our ability to integrate the financial reporting and internal control systems of acquired companies. Responding to natural disasters and their consequences will also require a significant amount of time and attention from management. The diversion of management attention away from ongoing operations and key research and development, marketing or sales efforts could adversely affect ongoing operations and business relationships. Although we carry insurance to generally compensate for losses of the type noted above, such insurance may be subject to deductible and coverage limits and may not be adequate to cover all losses that may be incurred or continue to be available in the affected area at commercially reasonable rates and terms. If we were to lose one of our large customers our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. Product sales to our ten largest customers have traditionally accounted for a significant amount of our business. Many of our customers operate in cyclical industries, and, in the past, we have experienced significant fluctuations from period to period in the volume of our products ordered. Generally, our agreements with our customers impose no minimum or continuing obligations to purchase our products. We cannot assure you that any of our customers will not significantly reduce orders or seek price reductions in the future or that the loss of one or more of our customers would not have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects. In addition, the integration of the business acquired in connection with the SANYO Transaction requires significant coordination and we cannot assure you that our existing customer relationships or SANYO Semiconductors prior customer relationships will not be materially and adversely affected as a result of uncertainty in connection with or other factors relating to the newly combined entity. The loss of our sources of raw materials or manufacturing services, or increases in the prices of such goods or services, could adversely affect our operations and productivity. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or if the costs of our raw materials increase significantly or their quality deteriorates. Our manufacturing processes rely on many raw materials, including polysilicon, silicon wafers, 31 Table of Contents gold, copper, lead frames, mold compound, ceramic packages and various chemicals and gases. Generally, our agreements with suppliers impose no minimum or continuing supply obligations, and we obtain our raw materials and supplies from a large number of sources on a just-in-time basis. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Although we believe that our current supplies of raw materials are adequate, shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. In addition, for some of our products, we are dependent upon a limited number of highly specialized suppliers for required components and materials. The number of qualified alternative suppliers for these kinds of technologies is extremely limited. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt production in material ways. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will not lose our suppliers for these key technologies or that our suppliers will be able to meet performance and quality specifications or delivery schedules. Disruption or termination of our limited supply sources for these components and materials could delay our shipments of products utilizing these technologies and damage relationships with current and prospective customers. We also use third-party contractors for some of our manufacturing activities, primarily for wafer fabrication and the assembly and testing of final goods. Our agreements with these manufacturers typically require us to forecast product needs and commit to purchase services consistent with these forecasts, and in some cases require longer-term commitments in the early stages of the relationship. Our operations could be materially adversely affected if these contractual relationships were disrupted or terminated, the cost of such services increased significantly, the quality of the services provided deteriorated or our forecasts proved to be materially incorrect. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant amount of our total revenue is derived from the Asia/Pacific region, the Americas, and Europe (including the Middle East). Similarly, we maintain significant operations in these regions. In addition, we rely on a number of contract manufacturers whose operations are primarily located in the Asia/Pacific region. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming the risks that relate to or arise from operating in international markets. Risks inherent in doing business on an international level include, among others, the following: economic and political instability (including as a result of the threat or occurrence of armed international conflict or terrorist attacks); changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers; transportation delays; power supply shortages and shutdowns; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations including collective bargaining agreements and workers councils, exposure to foreign labor laws, and other employment and labor issues; currency convertibility and repatriation; taxation of our earnings and the earnings of our personnel; and other risks relating to the administration of or changes in, or new interpretations of, the laws, regulations and policies of the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. In the last few fiscal years, we have benefited from relatively low effective tax rates because most of our income has been earned and reinvested in jurisdictions outside the U.S. Our effective tax rate is uncertain on an ongoing basis. Changes to income tax regulations in the United States could, under our existing tax structure, significantly increase our effective tax rate and ultimately reduce our cash flow from operations and otherwise 32 Table of Contents have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, business combinations and investment transactions could impact our effective tax rate. We hold a significant amount of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries. As we intend to reinvest certain of our foreign earnings indefinitely, this cash held outside the United States in various foreign subsidiaries is not readily available to meet certain of our cash requirements in the United States. We require a substantial amount of cash in the United States for operating requirements, debt repurchases and payments and acquisitions. If we are unable to address our U.S. cash requirements through operations, through borrowings under our current debt agreements or from other sources of cash obtained at an acceptable cost, it may be necessary for us to consider repatriation of earnings that are permanently reinvested, and we may be required to pay additional taxes under current tax laws, which could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Other activities outside the United States are subject to additional risks associated with fluctuating currency values and exchange rates, hard currency shortages and controls on currency exchange. For instance, while our sales are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, worldwide semiconductor pricing is influenced by currency rate fluctuations. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, our results of operations and competitive position could deteriorate. Our success, both generally and in connection with mergers and acquisitions, depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical, managerial, marketing and financial personnel. The market for personnel with such qualifications is highly competitive. For example, analog component designers are difficult to attract and retain, and the failure to attract and retain analog component designers could compromise our ability to keep pace with our competitors in the market for analog components. In addition, from time to time, we have announced certain cost reductions that included the freezing of salaries and elimination of bonuses, mandatory unpaid time off, factory shutdowns and reduction in personnel. These measures, as well as any future cost reduction measures, could negatively affect morale and lead to unintended employee attrition at all levels of our organization. Moreover, we have not entered into employment agreements with all of our key personnel. As employee incentives, we have issued common stock options that generally have exercise prices at the market value at time of the grant and that are subject to vesting over time, RSUs with time-based vesting and performance based awards. Any difficulty relating to obtaining stockholder approval of new or amendments to equity compensation plans could limit our ability to issue these types of awards. Our stock price at times has declined substantially, reducing the effectiveness of certain of these incentives. Loss of the services of, or failure to effectively recruit, qualified personnel, including senior managers and design engineers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Some of that intellectual property is currently subject to disputes with third parties, and litigation could arise in the future. If we are unable to protect the intellectual property we use, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on various registered and unregistered intellectual property assets, patents, trade secrets, trademarks, mask works and copyrights to protect our products and technologies. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patents or pending patent applications and we cannot assure you that: any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business, including those assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 recapitalization and subsequent acquisitions, will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; any of the substantial number of U.S. or foreign patents and pending patent applications that we employ in our business, including those assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 33 Table of Contents recapitalization and subsequent acquisitions, will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others the license rights granted, transferred or assigned in connection with our 1999 recapitalization or subsequent acquisitions will provide competitive advantages to us; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how or mask works that were assigned, licensed or sublicensed to us in connection with our 1999 recapitalization or subsequent acquisitions will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or licensed to others; or any of our pending or future trademark, copyright, or mask work applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. In addition, our competitors or others may develop products or technologies that are similar or superior to our products or technologies, duplicate our products or technologies or design around our protected technologies. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in the United States and in foreign countries. Also, we may from time to time in the future be notified of claims that we may be infringing third-party intellectual property rights. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licenses under such intellectual property rights. However, we cannot assure you that we will obtain such licenses or that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to us. The failure to obtain a license from a third party for intellectual property we use could cause us to incur substantial liabilities or to suspend the manufacture or shipment of products or our use of processes requiring the technologies. Litigation could cause us to incur significant expense by adversely affecting sales of the challenged product or technologies and diverting the efforts of our technical and management personnel, whether or not such litigation is resolved in our favor. In the event of an adverse outcome in any such litigation, we may be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the manufacture, use, sale or importation of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing technologies; discontinue the use of processes; or obtain licenses to the infringing technologies. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in any such development or acquisition or that any such licenses would be available to us on reasonable terms. Any such development, acquisition or license could require the expenditure of substantial time and other resources. We also seek to protect our proprietary technologies, including technologies that may not be patented or patentable, in part by confidentiality agreements and, if applicable, inventors rights agreements with our collaborators, advisors, employees and consultants. We cannot assure you that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of our research. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and adversely affect our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses and other intellectual property is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In 34 Table of Contents addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may adversely impact our business. An unfavorable ruling in these sorts of matters could include money damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, which could in turn negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We can provide no assurances as to the outcome of these claims asserted by other parties with respect to their alleged intellectual property rights. We are subject to litigation risks, including securities class action litigation, which may be costly to defend and the outcome of which is uncertain. All industries, including the semiconductor industry, are subject to legal claims, with and without merit, including securities class action litigation that may be particularly costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. We are involved in a variety of legal matters, most of which we consider either routine matters that arise in the normal course of business or immaterial for our aggregate business operations. These routine matters typically fall into broad categories such as those involving suppliers and customers, employment and labor, and intellectual property. We believe it is unlikely that the final outcome of these legal claims will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, defense and settlement costs can be substantial, even with respect to claims that we believe have no merit. Due to the inherent uncertainty of the litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal claim or proceeding could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. As mentioned above, from time to time, we have been, or may in the future be, involved in securities litigation or litigation arising from our acquisitions. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of any such litigation matter in which we are a party. These types of matters are costly to defend and even if resolved in our favor, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Such litigation could also substantially divert the attention of our management and our resources in general. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of securities or other litigation could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that securities litigation will not be filed against us in the future. In addition, we can provide no assurance that our past or future acquisitions will not subject us to additional litigation. See Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings of this report for more information on our legal proceedings. We are exposed to increased costs and risks associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Like most publicly-traded companies, we incur significant cost and spend a significant amount of management time and internal resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (SOX), which requires managements annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these systems by our management and by our independent registered public accounting firm. As we continue to make strategic acquisitions, mergers and alliances, the integration of these businesses increases the complexity of our systems of controls. While we devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements under Section 404 of SOX, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial process and reporting in the future. The integration of SANYO Semiconductor into our internal control over financial reporting will require additional time and resources from our management and other personnel and will increase our compliance costs. We are continuing to evaluate the impact that the integration of SANYO Semiconductor will have in the future on our ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in the combined companys internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to comply with SOX, including delaying 35 Table of Contents or failing to successfully integrate SANYO Semiconductor into our internal control over financial reporting or the identification and reporting of a material weakness, may cause investors to lose confidence in our consolidated financial statements or even in our ability to recognize the anticipated synergies and benefits of this transaction, and the trading price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if we fail to remedy any material weakness, our investors and others may lose confidence in our financial statements, our financial statements may be materially inaccurate, our access to capital markets may be restricted and the trading price of our common stock may decline. See Part II, Item 9A